GENERAL STATUTES OF NEW JERSEY.
Abatement.
1.
‘Z.
3.
4.
a

\\'hen death not to abate suit.
Case of several plaintifffs or defendants.
.\'ot to abate after filing declaration.
\\'heu not to abate in chancery.
Death of one of several parties. Proceedings to continue
suit.
_

i-.-.5s=s-"-.—=

6. Death of sole complainant.

Death oi sole defendant.
when suit to be at an end.
Revivor by bill in chancery.
Death between verdict and judgment.

1
1'

Action against receiver not to abate.

>5*‘

Action against administrator pcndente lite, &c.. not to abate

Days between teste and return of certain writs.

An act to prevent in certain cases the abatement of suits and reversal

' of judgments.
Revision—Approved March '37, 1574.

1. That in all actions depending or to be commenced in any court of
record of this state, if any plaintifff happen to die after an interlocutory
judgment, and before a ﬁnal judgment obtained therein, the said action
shall not abate by reason thereof, if such action might be originally prose

R. S. 952.
Death of piaintiﬁi

cuted or maintained by the executors or administrators of such plaintifff;

and if the defendant die after such interlocutory judgment, and before
ﬁnal judgment therein obtained, the said action shall not abate, if such
action might be originally prosecuted or maintained against the executors
or administrators of such defendant; and the plaintifff, or if he or she be
dead after such interlocutory judgment, his or her executors or adminis
trators, shall and may have a scire facias against the defendant if living
after such interlocutory judgment, or if he or she died after, then against
his or her executors or administrators, to show cause why damages in
such action should not be assessed and recovered by him, her or them;

Of defendant.

Scire facias.

and if such defendant, his or her executors or administrators, shall appear

at the return of such writ; and not show or allege any matter suﬂlcient to
arrest the ﬁnal judgment, or the said writ having been returned served, or
if no service thereof can be made, having been published as prescribed by
law, shall make default, that thereupon an assessment of damages shall be
had, or a writ of inquiry of damages shall be awarded, which assessment
being duly made, or writ of inquiry being duly executed and returned,
judgment ﬁnal shall be given for the said plaintiﬁ, his or her executors or
administrators, prosecuting such writ or writs of scire facias against such
defendant, his or her executors or administrators, respectively.
2. That if in any action or suit there be two or more plaintifffs or
defendants and one or more of them shall die, if the cause of such action

shall survive to the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or against the surviving
defendant or defendants, the writ or action shall not be thereby abated;
but such death being suggested upon the record, the action shall proceed
at the suit of the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, against the surviving
defendant or defendants. (a)
ta, Applies to an action of dower, where the husband of one
of the tenants died between the time of tiling ademurrer and
joinder. Lbzrm v. Inn”, Hm. ‘772. When the su
tion of a

To shot!’ cause.

Assessment, ac,
and judgment.

Case of several
plaintifffs or de
fendants.

suit, the action survives against the other defendants and can
not be continued against the survivors and the representatives
of the deceased. Fisherv. Ailm, 7 Yr. N3. The death of one of
several plaintifffs in a cause referred b ' rule oi‘ court to referees,

dc-fendnnt's death, in an action which survive.-1 the eath of one
of the defendants, must be made. Brewer v. Ftrrch, 2Har. 3'77.

is not a revocation of the authority o

Where, in a suit on a promissory note against three defendants
as joint and several makers, one of the defendants dies pending

the referees, but may be

suggested on the record. Preeboru v. lhmnum, 3 Hal. 116. See
Fisher v. Rutherford, Bald. 0. C. 188; Scull v. Abbott, 8 Gr. 838.

1

2
Not to abate after
ﬁling declaration.
P. L. 1855, p. 340.

Suits in chuncery
not to abate.

ABATEMENT.
3. That in all actions depending or to be commenced.in any court of
record of this state, if any plaintifff die after filing the declaration and
bei'ore ﬁnal judgment, the said action shall not abate by reason thereof, if
such action might be originally prosecuted or maintained by the executors
or administrators of such plaintifff‘; (a) and if the defendant die after ﬁling
the declaration and before ﬁnal judgment, the said action shall not abate,
if such action might be originally prosecuted or maintained against the
executors or administrators of such defendant; (b) but the death of such
plaintifff or defendant being suggested upon the record, and the names of
the executors or administrators of such deceased plaintifff or defendant
being entered upon the record, the action shall proceed to ﬁnal judgment
at the suit of the plaintifff, or if he or she die after filing the declaration, at
the suit of his or her executors or administrators,against the defendant,
or if he or she die after ﬁling the declaration, against his or her executors
or administrators respectively. (0)
4. That if in any suit or action now depending or hereafter to be
brought in the court of chancery, there are or shall be two or more plain
tiffs or defendants, and one or more of them die, if the cause of such suit
or action survive to the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or against the sur
viving defendant or defendants, such suit or action shall not be thereby
abated; but such death being suggested, and shown by affidavit or other
wise, to the satisfaction of the court, such suit or action shall proceed, at

Death oi‘ one of
several piaintiih
or defendants.

How survivors
may proceed.

Order to revive.

the suit of the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, against the surviving
defendant or defendants. ((1)
5. That in every suit or action in the court of chancery, in which any
bill is or shall be ﬁled,and in which there are or shall be two or more

plaintifffs or defendants, and any of them die, and the cause of action doth
not survive, but other persons shall become parties in interest, in right or
by the death oi‘ such deceased party, such suit shall, by reason of such
death, be abated only with respect to such deceased party, and the sur
viving plaintifff‘ or plaintifffs may proceed against the surviving defendant
or defendants, without reviving the suit against the representatives of the
deceased party, or any other who may become interested by the death of
such party ; but in such case such representatives, or such person or per
sons as shall become interested by the death of such party, shall not be
bound by any order or decree in such cause to which they are not made
parties; and if the plaintifff or plaintifffs choose to make the representa
tives of the deceased party, or others who may become interested by the
death of such decedent, parties to such suit, no bill of revivor or subpoena
ad revivendum shall be necessary; but the court shall and may, by rule
or order, as often as there shall be occasion for it, direct the suit to stand

Representatives
of plaintifff may
amend.

revived, (e) which rule or order shall be served on such person or persons,
and in such manner as the court may direct; and unless the representa
tives of such deceased party, or others who may become interested by the
death of such party, shall, within such time after such service as aforesaid
as the court shall limit and appoint, appear and proceed thereon as when
a suit has been revived by bill, the plaintifff or plaintifffs may cause their
appearance to be entered, and in such case the answer of the deceased
party, if any there be, shall be deemed and taken as and for the answer of
such representatives or other person or persons interested by the death of
such party; and if any plaintifff or plaintifffs, in any suit now depending
or hereafter to be brought, wherein the cause of action doth not survive as
aforesaid, happen to die pending such suit, the lawful representative or

(fl) Death oi’ plalntifi's lemor, after notice of trial, no bar to
the trial. Den. Ibrrtll v. Sayre, Pen. 598. An administrator dc
Mrnls non, is within the equity of the statute. Omm v. Autna,
2 Gr. 593.
(b) An action on the case against asheriﬂ‘ for-an
,0!
for taking an insufﬂcient bail bond, does not survive. an can
not, thereforee, be continued
nst his personal represents»
fives. Ounningharn v. Jaquu, Hm-. 41 An action to recover
damages claimed to have been sustained by wster being ﬂowed
hack upon plaintifff's land from the mill-dam of the de 8ndanr,
does not abate by the death of the defendant after issue joined.
ﬂrn Eyrlc v. Bunk, 2 Vr. 428. An action for breach of promise
of ms
ahates by the death of the defendant nﬁer issue
Joined.
01/den v. Heeiand, B Vr. 872.

(r) The costs ofs suit, abated hy death of testator, cannot
be recovered by executor. Rings v. Tynm, Lbxz 84. Nor will
the court make n rule on executors to enforce the payment oi’
costs in an action brought by their testator.

Thompson, 3 Gr. 344.

cbureu ads. Den,

Star: v. Jackson, 8 Stock. 45. Bnuonv.

Wooltvrton, 1 C’. I}. Gr. 110.

(Ii) Held not to a ply where in an action of dower a tcstalor
ion of
and devisee were efendants, and testator, in
geremises, died after iaue joined. Rou v. Hat)lcld,l Gr. Ch. U3.
e Scott v. Blaine, Bald. C‘. C. 2&8.
(e) Suit cannot be revived by petition, nor isservice of sub
$1-n%ecesssry.

iv.

Evan v. Browning, July Ibrm, 18%, Hal.

ABATEMFJNT.
representatives of such deceased plaintifff or plaintifffs, or any other person
or persons interested by the death of such plaintifff or plaintifffs, shall and
may, upon aﬂidavit thereof by him, her, or them, or any other person or
persons, and on motion made in court, be, by the rule or order of the
court, inserted as a complainant or complainants in the said suit, and be
permitted to make such amendment in the hill or bills of complaint, as his,

her or their title or interest therein may require, to which amendment or
amendments the defendant or defendants shall be compellable, by rule or
order of the said court, to answer, proceed to issue and examination of
witnesses and production of proofs, and all other proceedings shall be had
thereon,as in ordinary cases; and in case such person or persons shall
not, within such time after the death of such plaintifff or plaintifffs as the
court shall limit and appoint, cause himself, herself, or themselves to be
entered as plaintifff or plaintifffs, in the room of such deceased plaintifff or
plaintifffs, then, and in every such case, the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs
may insert the representative or representatives of such deceased plaintifff
or plaintifffs, or other person or persons interested, by his, her, or their
death, as defendant or defendants in such suit, and proceed in the manner
hereinbefore directed in cases where the lawful representative or represen
tatives of a deceased defendant or defendants, may be made party or

Defendant to
answer, &c.

When repre
seniativcs may

be made de
fcndants.

parties. (a)

6. That in every suit or action in the court of chancery, in which any
bill has been or shall be ﬁled and the subpoena returned served, and in
which there was, is, or shall be but one plaintifff or one defendant, and the

Death of sole
plaintifff, repre
sentative may
be substituted.

said plaintifff hath died or shall die, the lawful representative or representa
tives of such deceased plaintifff, or any other person or persons interested
by the death of such plaintifff, shall and may, upon affidavit thereof by
him, her, or them, or any other person or persons, and on motion made
in court, be, by rule or order of the court, inserted as a complainant or

complainants in the said suit, and be permitted to make such amendment
in the bill or bills of complaint, as his, her, or their title or interest therein
may require, and upon such terms as the court may direct, to which
amendment or amendments the defendant or defendants shall be com
pellable, by rule or order of the said court, to answer, proceed to issue and
exainination of witnesses and production of proofs, and all other proceed
ings shall be had thereon as in ordinary cases. (b)
7. That if in any such suit in which there was, is, or shall be but one
defendant, and the said defendant hath died or shall die, and the plaintifff
or plaintifffs choose to make the representative or representatives of the
deceased part_v, or others who have or may become interested by the death

Who may amend.

Death of sole
defendant, his
representative
made a party.

of such decedent, parties to such suit, no bill of revivor or suhpoana ad

-revivendum shall be necessary; but the court shall and may, by rule or
order, as often as there shall be occasion for it, direct the suit to stand
revived, which rule or order shall he served as the court may direct; and

unless the representative or representatives of such deceased party, or
others who may become interested by the death of such party, shall,

within such time, after service as aforesaid, as the court shall limit and
appoint, appear and put in their answer, or signify their disclaimer of the

suit, and the matters in controversy therein, the plaintifff or plaintifffs may
cause his or their appearance to be entered, and in such case the answer
of the deceased party, if any there be, shall be deemed and taken as and
for the answer of such representative or representatives, or other person
or persons interested by the death of such party; and such further pro
ceedings may and shall be had in the said suit, as are according to equity
and the rules and practice of the said court.
8. That in case of the death of any sole plaintifff, if his lawful repre
sentative or representatives, or such other person or persons as shall become
interested by his death, shall not, within such time as the court may limit

Answer or
disclaimer.

When suit at an
end.

(a) All the former proceedings in the cause s1.and,nnd the

lalntiﬂ dies before decree, the suit cannot be revived at the

only question open for litigation is, whether the new party has

nstance of the defendant or of his legal representative. The
statute has not altered the practice, except by provltlinga more

thorepruentative character imputed to him. .-ilarlatz v. War
u-lrk, 4 (7. Z. 01-. 44.5
(0) The rule, irrespective of the statute, is that where a sole

expeditious mode of proceeding b_v ortler, instead of resorting
to a bill of revivor. Bemon v. Wooiverton, 1 0. E. Gr. 110.

ABLTEMENT.
and appoint for the purpose, cause himself, herself, or themselves to be
entered as complainant or complainants in the said suit, in the room of
such deceased plaintifff, or in case of the death of any sole defendant, if
the plaintiff or plaintifffs shall not make the representative or representa
tives of the deceased defendant, or others who may have become interested
by the death of such decedent, party or parties to such suit, and cause the
said suit to stand revived within such time as the court shall limit and
appoint for that purpose, then and in every such case, the said suit shall
be considered as at an end, and shall not be revived in the manner pro
vided for by this act. (a)
‘
Revivor by bill in
chancery.

Death between
verdict and Judg
ment.

Days between
teste and return of
certain \vrli;~i.

9. That nothing in this act contained shall prevent the reviving of any
such suit in the court of chancery, as before mentioned, by bill of revivor,
when the plaintifff or his representative or representatives, or others who
may become interested by the death of such plaintiﬂ', may prefer that
course of practice, or when the court may deem it expedient to direct that
course of practice to be pursued. (b)
10. That in all actions, real, personal, or mixed, the death of either
party between the verdict and the judgment shall not be alleged for error,
so as such judgment be entered within two terms after such verdict. (c)
11. That in all actions of debt, and all other personal actions whatsoever,

and in all actions of ejectment for lands and tenements, now depending, or
which at any time hereafter shall he depending by original writ, in any
court of record, after any issue joined therein, to be tried by a jury, and
also after any judgment had or obtained, or to be had or obtained in any
such court, in any such action as aforesaid, there shall not need to be
ﬁfteen days between the teste day and the day of the return of any writ
or writs of venire facias, habeas corpora jurutorum, or distringas juratores,
or writs of ﬁeri facias, or of capias ad satisfaciendum; and the want of
ﬁfteen days between the teste day and day of return of any such writ,
shall not be, nor shall be assigned, taken, or adjudged to be any matter or
cause of error.
’
.

Supplement.

P. L. 1883, p. 18.
Action against
receiver not
abated by his
death.

Approved January iii, 1883.

12. SEC. 1. That no action heretofore or hereafter brought in any court
of this state against any receiver of any corporation within the same, shall
be held, adjudged or decreed to abate or to have abated by reason of the
death of such receiver; but upon suggestion of the facts on the record,
such suit shall be continued against the new receiver for such corporation
appointed by the chancellor, or against such corporation in case no new
receiver shall be or shall have been appointed, as if such death had not
happened.
Supplement.

P. L. 1880, p. 14.
Action against
administrator
pendente lite,
&c., not to abate.

Approved February 24, 1890.

13. S130. 1. That in all suits in any court of law or equity, which are
now pending or which may hereafter be commenced, against any admin
istrator having letters pendente lite or other limited administration, if
limited administration shall for any reason terminate, such suit shall not
for that cause abate or be discontinued, but the plaintifff or plaintifffs in
any such suit may, at his or their option, enter a rule upon any adminis
trator, executor or other person or representative who may succeed to the
possession or control of any assets which would have been applicable to

u) The court ordered judgment to be entered where ‘the
plalntlﬂ‘ died after obtaining a rule to show cause why the ver
dict should not be set aside, and his executors failed to follow
up the rule.

Lloyd v. Jolmaon, 2 Hm: 349.

\Vhere, after an

injunction had issued defendant died, and complainant had not
revived the suit, the proper roceeding is by order that com
Eéainsnt revive within aspec ed time, or that the injunction
dissolved. Oummtm v. Cﬁnnmina, 4 Hal. Ch. 178. See Hand
v. Jucobua, 4 C’. E. Gr. 79.

(b) Ifa suit becomes abated and nothing hut the death of the
parrg is necessary to be established to show the liabili
of the
on
vors, a bill of revivor alone is sutﬂcieut. Rou v. amdd, 1
Gr. Ch. 863. Where a complainant ﬂied a bill for the s eclﬂc
sprformanoe of an agreement for the conveyance of hm , and
ed beibre the decree was signed, the heirsat-law oi’compia1n

ant were held tn be the proper persons to revive the suit. Lan
ning v. Gabe, 2 Hal. C71. H12. A bill of revivor will lle where the
sole design of reviving the suit is that an appeal may be taken
from the decree, if the

rties have the right ofappeal.

Prrr v.

Ooolcerow, 2 Bum. 136.
erever there has been a devise of the
real estate in litigation. and the design is to revive the s_ult,
either in favor of or against the devisee, the heir and devisee
xnustboth be made parties. In-r v. (bokcrow, 1 ARC. 361. Mc
Ourdy v. Agnew, 4 Hat. Ch. 728.
.
(c) Where an action was brought by the husband of a woman
married revious to March zam, I852, and the husband died
alter vs lct and before Judgment, the suit would not abate but
might be continued and judgment entered by the adminis
trator. Tlenelck ads._Ftagg, 6 Dutch. 26.

ACCOUNT.
pay any judgment for the plaintifff or plaintifffs in such suit, to show cause
why such administrator or executor, or other person or representative,
should not be suggested upon the record of such suit as a defendant
therein; and the court in which such suit is or may he pending, upon
proof of service of such rule to show cause upon such proposed defendant,
shall, upon such terms as shall be equitable and just, make an order that
the name of such succeeding administrator, executor, person or representa
tive, shall be entered on the record as a defendant in such suit; and after
the entry of such order such suit shall proceed in the same manner, and
judgment or decree therein shall have the same force and effect as if such
defendant whose name has been so as aforesaid suggested upon the record,
had been originally brought into court as a defendant in such suit in the
manner required by law.

Account.
1. Executors may have writ of.
1 Executors or guardians liable to.

4. Proceedings in actions of.
5. Powers of auditors.

3. Joint tenants and tenants in common.

6. Proceedings in case defendant do not plead or demur.

Sheriffiiable for escape.

An act concerning the action of account.
Passed December 1, 1794.

1. That i'rom henceforth, executors shall have a writ of account, and

the same action and process in the same writ, as the testator might have
had, if he had lived.
2. That actions of account shall and may be brought and maintained
against the executors or administrators of every guardian, bailiﬂ" and
receiver.
3. That actions of account shall and may be brought and maintained by
one joint tenant or tenant in common, his or her executors or administra
tors, against the other, as bailiff, for receiving more than comes to his or
her just share or proportion, and against the executor or administrator of
such joint tenant or tenant in common. (a)
4. That where_any person is or shall be bound or liable to account as
guardian, bailiﬁ‘, receiver, or

otherwise, to another, and will not give

Rev. 156.

R. S. 46.
Executors may

have a writ of
account.
Account may be
brought against

the executors oi‘
guardians, &c.
One Joint tenant
or tenant in com
mon may bring
action of account
against the other.
Proceedings in
actions of account.

account willingly, and the party, to whom such ae'count ought to be made,
shall sue out a writ of account, if the person,against whom such writ is

issued, being summoned, do not appear at the return of the writ, or if it
be returned that the defendant hath nothing, then the defendant shall be
attached, by his or her body, to come and make his or her account; and
when such accountant shall appear in court, and submit or he adjudged to

account, auditors shall be assigned by the court to take his or her account
and ii‘ such accountant shall he found in arrears, and cannot pay the
arrears and the costs of suit forthwith, then a tieri facias de bonis et terris,
or a t-apias ad satisfaciendum shall he awarded; and if such accountant
shall neglect or rei'use to account before the auditors, he or she shall be
committed to jail, there to he kept under safe custody until he or she shall

satisfy the plaintifff of his or her demand, with costs; and further, if it
shall be found that there is a surplusnge due on such account, from the

plaintifff to the defendant, then the defendant shall have judgment to
recover such surplusage, with costs of suit, against the plaintifff, unless
where the suit is brought by executors or administrators, in right of their
testator or intestate; in which case, the defendant shall not recover costs

against them; and the defendant shall or may have such execution for the
same as he or she might have had, if he or she had recovered such sur
(cu Where oneienant in common actually receives the rents,

imues and proﬁts. he mam compelled to account.

Izard v.

Bodlne, 3 ﬂock. 403. Dani:
v. Thompum, 7 1.’. L‘. (Ir. 83. Bor
rrll v. Darrell, 10 C. E. G-r. 173. Account lies where a partner is

excluded from the business of the iirm by the illegal act or his
oopartner. Hartman v. Woehr, 3 C. E. Gr. 883. Hnrg-ratv v.
".mrn_v,4 C. E. Gr. ‘Z81. Gm'd0n v. Ilnmmrll, -I C. L‘. (Jr. 216.

ﬂee Young v. 'Brk'k, Pm. ‘B64.

Oue who is next of kin, or a

legatee, or creditor, cannot ﬂie a bill against the surviving
of com
partner of a testator or intestate for the sole pu
peliin him to account and settle with the person P9 resents
lc. 389.
tive 0? the deceased partners. HarrLlon v. Rinfiler, 8 The right of a tenant in common, out of possession, to require
the tenant in possession to account, is purely a statutory regu

lation.

Email v. .‘t{err!tl, 10 Slew. ii5.

AGRICULTURE.
Sheriff who shall
suffer prisoner to
escape, to be
answerable for
the debt, or
damages.

Auditors may
examine wit
nesses.

Compensation
to auditors.

Proceedings ifthe
defendant do not
plead or demur,
as in other cases.

P. L. l8-3'». p. ms. a
s2.

plusage by action of debt; and moreover, if any sheriii or jailer shall
surfer any such prisoner to go out oi‘ prison. without the assent of the
plaintifff, he shall be answerable to the plaintifff for the debt, or damages
done to him or her by such accountant, according as it may be found by
the country, and the party, at whose suit such prisoner was committed,
shall have his or her recovery by action of debt, or by bill or plaint, in any
court of record.
5. That the auditors appointed by the court, where any action of account
shall be depending, shall be and licri-b_v are empowered to administer an
oath, and to examine the parties on oath, touching the matters in question;
and for their pains and trouble in auditing and taking such account, shall
have such allowance as the court shall adjudgc to be reasonable, to be paid
by the party in whose favor the balance shall be found, and to be allowed
to him or her in the costs to be taxed against the opposite party, where '
costs are recoverable. (a)
6. That when a defendant in the action of account shall be summoned
to appear, thc_ plaintiff may file his dcclaration as in other actions; and if
the defendant do not plead or dcmur, as in other cases, the plaintifff. with
out procccding to attach him, may entcr judgment against him that he
account, and the court or a judge may thereupon assign auditors to take
the account; and no pleas shall in any case bc allowed before auditors in
the action of account, but they shall proceed as referees arc required
to do in other cases; and if the defendant docs not plead to the action,
or shall ncglcct or refuse to account before the auditors, the plaintifff
may provc his account against the defendant bcforc the auditors, who
shall investigate and report thcrcon as if the parties had both appeared
before them.

(a) Pmceedlngs by auditors.

lVillmn V. lI'illzmn, ‘Z S'nu(h. ‘T91.

Agriculture.
. .\'F.\\' JERSEY STATE AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY.

31. Expenses of act. how dz-i‘raycd.
32. Limit oi‘ appropriation.

Incorpomtion.

.

.'°.""'* Objects oi‘ incorporation.

IV. ACiRI(‘l'LTl.'R.-KL COLLEIGE (RUTGER-'5‘
S('II~.'.\"l‘IFIC SCI{l')OL\.
II. STATE BOARD OF AGRI(.‘L'L'I'L'RE.
COIl1ﬂliS.‘il()liPl'R to acll scrip.
Interest to be paid to Rutgers collctzc.
Fund devoted to maintenance ofsclcnlitic school.

5 F5@ se +r State board of agriculture, how constituted.
Amended by suction ‘.12.
Ann.-mlcd by sections 19 and '.‘.- .

Gratuitous education to be furuis'hcd.

Who entitled to vote at meetimzs of board.
. Annual reports oftru-"tm--1.
Powers of the bonrd.
(Jonnty boards, how cncouragcd.
Anicnded by section 24.
Amcndcd by sections '20 and 25.

Ann-nded by section ‘J6.
AHlt'Iltit'(l by section ‘.!l.
Report of treasurer of board.
14. Membership and organiration oi‘ county bounls.

15. County boards to make annual reports.
16. By-laws and regulations, how lllillit‘.
17. Annual report oi‘ executive Oommlttcc.

“'hcn intern-.~'t to be paid.
Board of visitors. how coinposod, &c.
Powers oi‘ board oi‘ visitors.
. Public lectures on agrlculum-.
4'3. Students. how admitted.
_
H’ Rest-rvi-ti powers of lci.{i.-luitirc.
-H. Board of visitors, how uppointcd.
. Tt'YIll oi‘ mt-tubers oi‘ board of vi.-sitors.
. Public lectures tllnlcr direction ofhonrd of visitors.
. Term ofoiiice oi‘ uiembt-is of board oi‘ visitors.

. EX[N_’llNt'S oi‘ board of visitors, how paid.
Repcnlcr.
19. Amended b_v so.-ction 23.
20. Amended by wt-tion ‘J5.
21. Powcrs of cxccntivc committee of state board.
Q. Board ofdircctors, how constituted.

23. Coiiipoiimtion ofoiliccm.
2i. Election ofoﬂicvrs.
25. 'l‘t?rt1i nl' ulil(‘t' Of‘ board (if directors.
‘Z6. Oillci-rs’ t'\|N*IlS4'§, how paid.

-ls. Xoticv of vnoant scholarships, how given.
50. Bills t'or giving notices, how paid.
51. Rntgors .-=4,-icntiﬂc school designated to receive beneﬁts of
Ct‘l'ii\ill acts of congress.
52. Board oi‘ visitors, how composcd.

__
I{t?])('t\l0I'.
03'
54, Q.-rtnin monies to be paid into sinking fund.
55. Upon such payment certiﬁcate to be issucd.
56. To whom the per centum paid by state shall be paid.
.37. Additional free scholarships provided.

III. STATE l’ltI~I'.'ill FMS.

.">s‘. How students may be admitted.

2,-_ Appointment Qf grate prelliium c(n1ini|tto_~e_

59. Amount paid to treasurer oi‘ college for each scholarship.

g3_ (‘glnmlitee to moi.-Q up list of premiums.

60. President of colleirc to certify number ofscholarshlps when

29. Committee to appoint judges to award premiums.

30. Appropriation for payment ofpremiums.

warrant upon state treasurer may be drawn.

tit. Act :~'ubjct't to alteration or rcpcal.

AMENDMENTS.

25

or vessel, to furnish to the president, mayor, or chief olficer of any such
city, or the clerk of any such township, or such person as the corporate
authorities of any such city or township may respectively designate, a
full and correct list of all the passengers arriving in his vessel, with the
name, age, occupation, and place of birth of each and every passenger,
under the penalty of ﬁve hundred dollars.
9. SEC. 3. That no passenger shall be permitted to land from on board
any ship or vessel arriving as aforesaid, without permission from the cor
porate authority of any such city or township, under the penalty of ﬁfty
dollars for each and every passenger so landed.
10. SEO. 4. That in case any alien passenger arriving as aforesaid,and
landed by authority and permission of the corporate authority of any such
cit_v or township, is or shall become sick, inﬁrm, or otherwise incapable of
providing for his or her own maintenance, then it shall be the duty of such
city or township to provide for the maintenance and support of the said
sick or inﬁrm passenger, so long as he or she shall remain incapable of
-providing for his or her own maintenance. (a)
11. SEC. 5. That the aforesaid penalties shall and may be sued for and
recovered, with full costs of suit, by action of debt, in any court having
cognizance thereof, in the corporate name of any such city or township
in this state, where the penalty or forfeiture may have accrued; and that
the defendant or defendants, in every such suit, may be held to special
bail; and that it shall and may be lawful for the corporate authority of
any such city or township to compound for said penalties, or either of
them, either before or after suing for the same, upon 'such terms as they

Penalty.

Penalty for land
ing without
permit.

Provision
for sick.

Pennltles, how
recovered.

ma_v think proper.

12. S1-:0. 6. That nothing contained in this act shall be construed to im
pair, or in any wise counteract, the full force and execution of the powers
already vested in the corporate authorities of any such city or township,
by their charters or acts oi’ incorporation, or any supplements thereto.
(a) The overseer of the poor, lfhe permits such passengers to
land, is bound to provide or them, and may hind Lhe township

Vested powers
saved.

without a special order ofajustice of the peace.

Perm Amboy

ads. Smilh, 4 Har. 5?.

Amendments.
1. Mistakes in process, &c., amended.

11. .\'or for want of pledges, &.c.

'.'. Judgments not reversed for rasures, the.
3. Misprisions ofclerks amended.

12. Whatjudgment on demurrer.
able.
4. And variance between record. éc.
5. Misprisluns of others amendnble.

13. Not extended to judgments confessed.
14. Variance in writ of error amended.

6. No prejudice by ancient terms, tic.

7.
8.
9.
10.

Records not to be altered.
No reversal for mispleading, dzc.
Nor for want of form.
.\‘or for certain variances.

Defects in pleading amend

15. No reversal for form ofwrlt, &c.

16.
17.
18.
19.

How far act extended, -ac.
Proceedings to be in English.
Construction of this act.
To what act not extended.

An act respecting amendments and jeofails.
Passed November M, 1794.

1. That by the misprision of a clerk, no process shall be annulled or dis
continued by mistaking in writing a syllable or a letter, too much or too
little; but as soon as such misprision is perceived, by challenge of the

Rev. 137.
R. S. 986.
Mistakes in pro
cess and records
may be amended,
A/ac.

party, or in other manner, it shall be instantly amended in due form, with

out giving advantage to the party challenging the same; and the court,
before whom such plea or record is made, or shall be depending. as well
by adjournment as by way of error, shall have full power, both alter and
before judgment given therein, to amend such record or process, as long
as the same is before them.
2. That for error assigned, or to be assigned, in any record, process, war
rant of attorney, writ, original or judicial, panel or return, because there are
any rasures or interiineations, or any addition, subtraction or diminution

of words, letters or titles, or parcel of letters, in any such record, process,

Judgments not to
be reversed for
rasures, M.

26

Court may order
misprision of

clerks to be
amended.

Variance between
a record, and oer

tilicate thereof,
amendnbie

Misprisions of
clerks amendable.

AMENDMENTS.
warrant of attorney, writ, panel or return, no judgment or record shall be
reversed or annulled.
3. That the court in which any record, process, declaration, count, plea,
warrant of attorney. writ, panel or return, is or may be, shall, while the
same remains before them, have power to examine such record, process,
declaration, count. plea, warrant of attorney, writ, panel or return, by
them and their clerks, and to rectify and amend, in aﬂirmance of the judg
ment of such record or process, whatever to them, in their discretion, shall
seem to be the misprision of the clerk, in such record, process, declara
tion, count, plea, warrant of attorney, writ, panel or return; so that, by
such misprision of the clerk, no judgment shall be reversed or annulled. (a)
4. That if any record, process, declaration, count, plea, warrant of attor
ney, writ, panel or return, be certiﬁed defective, otherwise than according to
the writing which thereof remains in the oﬂlce, court or place from whence
the same is certiﬁed, the parties, in aﬂirmance of the judgment of such
record or process, may allege that the same writing is variant from the said
certiﬁcate, and that being found and certiﬁed, the said variance shall be, by
the said court, rectiﬁed and amended according to the ﬁrst writing. (b)
5. That the court before whom any misprisionor default is or shall be
found in any record or process, which now is, or hereaﬂzer shall be depend
ing before thein,as well by way of error as otherwise, or in the returns of the
same, made or to be made by sheriffs, coroners, or any other, by misprision
of the clerk of such court, or by misprision of the sheriffs, undersheriffs,
coroners, or their clerks, or other oiilcers, clerks, or other ministers what
soever, in writing a letter or syllable too much or too little, shall have

No person to be
prejudiced by
ancient terms
and forms.
Records not to be
altered in any
term after jugs.

ment.

Aﬂer verdict,
Judgment not to
be reversed for
mlspleading, ac,

power to amend such defaults and misprisions, according to their discre
tion; and by examination thereof by the said court, to be taken where
they shall think necessary; and that all such amendments may be made,
as well after a judgment given upon verdict, confession, nihil dicit, or non
sum informatus, as upon matter of law pleaded.
B. That by the ancient terms and forms of pleaders, no person shall be
prejudiced, so that the matter of the action be fully showed in the writ,
declaration, and pleadings.
7. That the record of pleas, real, personal, or mixed, whereof judgment is
or shall be given and enrolled, or things touching such pleas, shall not be
amended or impaired by new entering of the clerk, or by the record or
matter certiﬁed, in any term subsequent to that in which such judgment,
in any such plea, is or shall be given and enrolled.
8. That if any issue hath been or shall be tried, by the oath or aiilrmation
of twelve men, or more, for the,party plaintiff or demanilant. or for the party
tenant or defendant, bailiff in assize, vouchee, prayee in aid, or tenant by
receipt, in any action, suit, bill, plaint, or demand, in any court of record,
then the court, by whom judgment thereof ought to be given, shall pro
cced and give judgment in the same, notwithstanding any mispieading,
lack of color, insutiicient pleading, or jeofail, any miscontinuance,discon
tinuance, or misconceiving of process, misjoining of the issue, lack of
warrant of attorney of the party against whom the issue shall be tried,
or any other default or negligence of any oi" the parties, their counselors

(a) In an action on a bond with special condition and verdict
not entered for the penalty, udginent was suspended until
amendment could be made.
W11!» v. Fish, 1 Nmilh. °371 ibi.

So in debt on bail bond. Iiunl. v. All:-1|, 2 Zub. 533.

A non-suit

granted at the circuit for a variance caused by a mistake in
copyimt tho record, will he set aside. Dru v. Hull, 4 Hut. 217. In

making u the record the clerk omitted the notice annexed to
B-plea oft ie general issue. A motion to amend was denied,
because such notice forms no part of the record. S1r»i>m.\i<m v.
Jr-hsnrk, Pen. "4-‘H. See Slulr v. .~itkin.von, 3 Diurh. 420.
('1) Ailcrjoinderin error, neither party can allege diminu

lion. yet the court may award a CIT!/0l'(ll'l to supply any defect

1" "19 bod)‘ Ofthe record. or in its out branches. uiuilriml v.
R"l'TIlP_1/Ht. 3 G1". 13$. Soa l‘(I. svi. and _rt.fu. may be read after
their return. Allvn v. 0miy,21;1-.112. A court oi‘ error will
upon motion amend the record sent up. in mere matters of
form or clerical mistakes, but not in matters ofsubstance. But

ti'0rm~i', made another return, B. rule was taken to amend such
second return for ambiguity. Slab? v. Hunt, 1 Hal. 303. See

is‘/it-ppm-d v. JIIIIP1‘, em-1; 402.

The supreme court cannot com

pel the sessions to state the case, nor receive nilidnvits to prove
that they have acted improperly. Nrwlon v. G!m1rr'.\lrr, 1 Hal.
405. The caption of an indictment may beso amended. .\'icli
oils V. Thr Slulr. ‘J Small. ' 5|? in). The Slulv v. Jamal, 4 Hut.

233. I714‘ S1111: v. Zulr, 5 Jﬁrl. 350. Smr» v. ,Vm-(Int. 3 Zvtb. 33. A
certiﬁed copy of the surrogates procca.-<lin;:~s on an application
for probate, has the effect ofa record. against which no aver
rnent will be admitted by the ordinary. Abmhnm Q2111-iuc1t'.\t
Will. 3 Hr. Ch. 4i0. The court will not notice anyalleized irregu~
larity of the court below unless established b ' the record. (bra
v. 1~‘l1-lrl, i Gr. 216. The rules and proceed ngs of the court
below. in the book ofminutes. may be brought up. Slan.<bur_i/
\'_ .S'qiii'z‘i', 2 Sinrlli. ‘B61. Ei'un.x v. Arlmiix. 3 Gr. 37-‘K. Sllrlc V.

alleged, call uponthe court below to certiiy as to the matter

Jlmrx, 5 Hal. 357. ll'm~1-m v. Drosl, 3 Har. 338. But only in
causes where there has been ajndizment. Den, Rulherfoi-d v.
Phi, 1 Zvlll. 700. A return or answer to a rule on ll court below
should be made by the court, anil not by the clerk, as his indi

alleged. even after argument.

viduni act.

"1 will permit the court below to amend the record in matters
of substance, and will for

that

purpose,

upon diminution

Apgnr v. Jliler. 4 Zab.

808.

“here the sessions fora defect in their ﬁrst return to a cer

Worrd v. Scaring, Spur. 670.

AMENDMENTS.

27

or attorneys; and the judgments thereof, so had and given, or to be had
and given, sliallstand in full strength and force, to all intents and purposes,
according to the said verdict, without any reversal or undoing of the same
by writ oi‘ error or otherwise, in like form as though no such default or
negligence had ever been had or committed.
9. 'l‘iiat if any verdict of twelve men or more hath been or shall be given After verdict,
in any action, suit, bill, plaint, or demand, in any court of record, the judg- Jlldgmentnot to
be reversed for
ment thereupon shall not be stayed or reversed by reason of any default want
of form, &c.
in form, or lack of form, touching false English, or variance from the
register, or other defaults in form, in any writ, original or judicial, count,
declaration, plaint, bill, suit, or demand, or for want of any writ, original
or judicial, or by reason of any imperfect or insufficient return of any
sheriff, or other oﬂicer, or for want of any warrant of attorney, or by
reason of any manner of default in process upon or after any aid, prayer,
or voucher; nor shall any such record or judgment, after verdict, be
reversed for any of the defects or causes aforesaid. (ct)
*~ 10. That if any verdict of twelve men or more hath been or shall be given After verdict.
not to
for the plaiiititf or detnandaiit, or for the defendant or tenant, bailiff in judgment
he reversed for
assize. voticliee, prayee in aid, or tenant by receipt, in any action, suit, bill,

variance in form
between the writ

plaiiit, or demand, in any court of record, the ‘judgment thereupon shall
not be stayed or reversed for any variance, in form only, between the

and declaration,

(tr) A. verdict will cure an ambiguity, but it will not mend t1ie
matter where the gist oi‘ the aciioii is not laid.

1-‘urn-ill V.

‘Sun!/t, l Jim‘. I33. The" ljiiih ll Slim .1 \'. Tlu l'i|'_i/in, ’ I. L’. C. 7.
Anienrliiient of mninions allowed, where under the mechan
ics’ lien law it was issued against the party as bltilllff only,
\\ in-ie the satnc person was both builder and owner. (‘oi-nvll V.
J!-H/In iixv, 3 Jinn-/t. 522. bee ll'i"i.-Iihunt V. Ilurns cl til., 5 Vi‘. 18.

And in i-ji-ctiiieiit where the ailldavit of service wastlelectlve,
.0. ll V. Applrzlttlt‘. 7 Hui. 32!.

176.

It'lorpping; ads. Slrlluuiclicr, 7 Yr.

And where the descriptionainl boiiiidaries oftliepreuiises

claitned were defective. .S'lrw<irl V. (.'imt¢h n um! Amhoy R. R.
Lu, -I l'r. ii-'1. 50 where a (‘fl‘/IUl'lI!‘l was iinpi'opei"l_v entitled its
to the defeiidaiit.
‘i-mm’ v. lJo_i/ll, 6 l'r. -I67.
in an action on

a con.~;table's bond, where the name of the party for whose use
the action was brought, was not indorscd. ll'iziy ads. Patunson,
3 Hm‘. -H0. See .\'m/rrs V. Ritlyictly, 3 Jlul. 373.
Aim-ndinent oi‘ tne rlrclrirulimt was allowed, after judgment
by di-fault, in an action of covenant where a iiiistako in the

or want of aver
ment, &.c.

211. Jtiilgiiieiit opened but allowed to stand with the execution
as St;'CllI‘il)' i'or piaintilf. ]{ul.sr_i/ ads. l'u'n ll'ri_r/meat, 1 Jlur. 3-30.
Diseretioiiary in the court wlieredefeiidatit in trespass applied
to add] to the general issue pleas oi‘ justiticatlon. .B)'l(Ch v (tir
llr, 3 '1'. 5-‘H.

Auieiidtneut oi‘ replication allowed where after atrial. verdict
and judgment for piaiutiif in common pleas, and reversal of
llliil~_lll(lgill€llL in the stipreine cotirt on writ oi‘ error, by with
drawing it general replication and pit.-adln,e,' pa_vinent on the
bond within sixteen yeais. l'rui I)yke v. Hm l)_t/kw, ~l Hm-. 1.
After Verdict for plni:ilIﬂ' on a plea of libermn tun-/nrnlum in
trespass. Budd v. N/illr , 1 ]{ur. 264.
"
Amendment Of'l‘f /iirr allowed. ttilthvrll V. ii'¢:xl, 1 Zub. 411.
Anieinlineiit ofi-n~:lir-/ allowed where thejury iiud a gt'*ilt_*l‘8.l
verdict oi‘ guilty on a special i.\.'~illt'j()lllt3(l in trespass. 1‘hillIp.s' V.

‘ml, 3 Zub. 155.

But not where tliejury omits to ﬁnd a verdict

on one oi‘ the isstit-s joined. Jliddlvlun V. Qiiiylty, 7 Hut. 352.
Thrr Church V. (mrdun, 2 Vr. 264.

date oi‘ the lease, and in the description of the prt-iiiises, had

Ainendinent oi‘ poslrtl allowed where the entire verdict was

been made. Bmidiim! v. L: mix, Pm. ‘.312. By alterini; the date
on whit.-h thejudgmt-nt in another state was laid, after Joiuder
in deniiirrer. .IJlllIliIl!I v. is’/iiiIc,‘2.b'oi/(Ii. ‘T78. Btit not after
judgment onaplea oi’ nul tic! rw-m-it. Oulirk V. L0(lrr,2 Gr.

for debt, and should have been debt and damages for the deten
tion of thedeht. North Rim rlifrmloiv Cb. V. »5'lireiu.sbm'_u ('hur<'h,

7;’, 3 Gr. ~il6.

\-Vht-n statute of litnitatioiis was pleaded, leave

given to add it count stating t1 protnise by the adininistrator.
.5‘-ill-w v. ..\'ul!m-, I jlul. -I05. \\'here a variance arose from an
evident inisprision of one word in a new nssigiimerit in an
action oi‘ trespass. .-\’»"l.~.-on v. Aynii, 7 Ilul. 62.
Jlomll. v. Ash
more‘. I .S'.m1-Ir. 52. Tothe comnioiicouiits plaiutitfs were allowed
to add counts on u. special agreeiiieiit: and this after the cause
liati been removed into the court of appeals, the jllll,‘.{lllt‘lll re
ver.-ied, it wnirr tie novo ordered, and the record rt-iiiittt-d to the
supreme court. 1i'ogr~r.s V. Phimiry, 1 U)‘. 1. iI'i'Il.is V. 1~'r-"ruultl,
4 l'r. ‘.107. Jmlin V. 1\’rtvJ:i'.vy (hr Spriiiyz (‘o., 7 1'1‘. H6. Vifliere
a demurrer was ﬁled in an action biotighton an adniinistrator's

bond given to the ordinary in his iiidividnal nnine, because he
was dc,-scribed as late ordinary. Witliuiiianit V. Uplli/.‘f‘, 2 Gr. 270.
See Hltlxlftl \'. Fun-lrr, 2 Zuh. 48. \\'ln-re the plaintiti’ had mis
taken the date oi’ an act ofthe legislatiire, and the name of a.
commissioner. Jlimlom Cu. v. !.'Ii1-Isl (')l"UT(‘/3, 3 Hr. 52. After
jinlgiin-iit tor the plaiiiilif on dt-niurrer to several special pleas
in bar, in an action l'or ovi-rllowing plaintifffs lands, auothcr
count was add:--I aliegiitr the destruction of his iishcry.
Tm

1'.‘_ip-I: V. IA-(nil-tire" and Rurimn (Jtnul l.‘-i., 4 Hill‘. 5.

But not to

add a count in ejectmcnt stittiuga demise under a. new title.
unlr v. Bltl,rrF't', 4 ll?»-Ii. C‘. I‘. 199.
Plaintiif having tleclarcd
on a bond with special condition. and defendant havingpleaded
.~4-vi-rai pit-as iii har, plaiiitilf was allowed to strike out the re
cital oftlie condition. so thslo ninke the dccliiration gt-iieral,as

utt 11 motley bond. J[rn‘l'i.\‘ (‘until V. lint l'0m.\'I, 4 flu)‘. 9.
Arncndnient of the bill qf pm-/imilnrn allowed, ifcaleiilated to
ntislctul. Tilllm V. IIuI¢‘hm.¢0n,3 lit‘. 178. Bimling ads. Allvu, 3
Jlur. 3(1). -5'Iollmﬂ' V. Dunlunn, 4 Ilrtr. 181. li'liil<ill V. l'mi(;Itn,

Pm. ‘($36. The hill of particulars served forms no part ofthe
record, and it is not crror that the name and style of defendant
in the hill do not C0t‘re~1pm|tl with the name in the record. Slate
&rrrl Jfrlhorloat I 'Iiurr/4 V. Hm don, 2 Yr. 264.

Amendment oi‘ plHttlll0\\'('tl in the notice of special matter
undera plea. of the general issue. 130.14 vrlt V. (1‘ur(li:i!r, Pm.

2 Zub. -125.

In an action ui'\\'t1sietl. verdict oi’ guilty as to one

part is substantiailya verdict ofnot guiltyastotheresidtieaud
the court will so amend the [H13/Ill. Itliirrlioim V. (.'oIItml, 2 Znb.
521. In the trial oi an issue iii a case of nmmIrinm.\-, where the
jury ﬁnd a:.,-'aiiist the defendaiit, but are silent as to daninges

and costs, the omission inay be corrected.

1-‘crgiim-on ads. Slate‘,

2 i'r. 2-S4.

Amendment oi‘jmI_/rmmr allowed after a term by entry of
jnd-.;inent of seiziii in dower. the omission being the clerk's
error,
])1l.l'('_l/ \'. 7': ll. 1_~,'_i;.-Ir, 1'1 It, ‘lu‘.’3. By correcting the
Christian iiaine of the plaiiitiiTiii ajtitigiiiciit tweiity _vt-ars old.
Pi-oousco \‘.1’I'Ob(l8C(), Mn. H.012. By entering a 1'! nu‘//inir oi’
the excess, where the judgment is for too large an ainonnt.
Jlrrlu. rt V. Httrdcli!n"r,r/Ii, 5 Jlul. ‘.".’.'.’.. New .Tri'.sr‘_t/1i'i'n,i' (ii. \'.
Jlillv, 2 Dulrlt. 60. Jfnﬂkz-Iy v. Bunk ofJc1-sry C'I/_l/, -i l~'r. 369, So
wherejudgiiient should have been eiitered for the penalty oi‘ it
bond. lilo!» v. Fish, 1 Sou!/t. "£571 (II). A jiiilgiiieiitentered by

mistake may be amended. or if procured by fraud, may at any
time he set aside. ]\'m;/ V. Ifucknmn, 7 C’. E. Hr. -Til.
Aincudinent of csivriilioii allowed where indorscd in tooiarge
an amount. (;l'I_[Ill/t v. Jones, Pni. '93:. ht) where an t‘\Zt'(‘ll
tion was tested out of term. Dru, Inskwp V. Lf(‘O?ljI. Con: ill.
so where by a. mistake in plaiiitiii‘:-i aﬂidavit as to the uinount
dtie on a bond, the jiiiltziiieiit had been entered for too large a.
Stlill. Fri!-s V. ll'001IwmIIi.'.‘ I-'i. '.'T$l. \\'|it:I'c|)lI1itilii‘l' illtlolM.'S
on writ one suin. including both tlainages and costs. 1": i-1/iisoit
ads. Slufr, 2 Vi‘. ‘Z83.

Ainendnient in st;/Ir of ar-/ion after trial and verdict, suit in
trespass cliaii;.;ed to case. J’:-ire v. Nnv J0 I'8(_l/ It’. R. I 'u.. 2 Vr. 2'29,
3 Vr. 19. Suit in covt-naut clian-.;t-ti to a.ssump.~n'(. (‘iii/rd S(atr.i,
iiitfrh Cb. V. L¢.‘u1'iml, 7 V1‘. -Lil. \\'lierc, after lIS.\‘|l)ll)).\‘i/ brought,

plaiiitiil's Ol)ltllll£*(ljlliltflilvlii in anotherstate for t he saine claim,
t,he £t(‘3iioI1 could not be tratisl'0riiied into debt. B(lI'II('8 v. tiiobs,
14

"F.

'8

Anieiidments
are now
entirely
in the
discretion
oi" the5. court.
Tin
]'.'_i/r/.-v, ])rllIi0(H'¢‘
and
Imrilmi
(‘mutt
(i'0., 4 Hm‘.
ﬂir
(burr_i/ V.iS‘n_i/ilmn, 5 Jlril. 249. .-’lIu_i/or of ]IoIml.'rrt V, f1'r"nr, 3
Du/rh. 266. lirnrlt V. Ciirlrr, 3 l'r. 5-'>i. ('iviu;fm-:1 V. 2\'rn.t .Irr.w_i/

'69-0.
A plea denying the itssignmt-tit ofa bond, in mode at
jurma, should conclude not \\'Iill a veriﬁcation, but to the coun
try, and is bad on dennirrer, but may be amended. Slcvens v.

R. R.‘Cb.,4.I)ulrll. 450.

B1m.~'rs,1 Hm-. I6. Ur it may be stricken out on inotion. (tip
prrlhwttilt V. Duntmrr. 3 Ilur. 2'53. Oll itllidaVlt ofa real tlcfeiitse
after demurrer to (|t't'|8|".lliUll. Juhmum ads. Rnmmi, 1 Jlur. 2:56.

objection ls taken. Inn, In.s~lt-up V. Le mug/, (bu lll. (‘ow v.
Firld. l Gr. 216. Price‘ V. .\'r'i0 Jm'se‘_t/ R. R. (.b.. 2 l'r. 229. ll'i!li.~i
V. Fwrnald. 4 i'r. 207. The party applyiiig to aniend must pay
rosls. (bndi! \'. Nrir/hlmr, 7 Iilul. 3‘.‘.U. Liimiirig V. .8‘/inle, '3.\'onIh.
‘T78. Rogers V. Plmim-"_i/, I I.-'r. 1. Din V. Srunriti-r, 1 Iliir. ll-‘ii’.

Hill! V. IAHIT/)l('f, 2 Zuh. 7'2. .Hrtll \'. Hiwiithill, 2 (Jr. 9. But not
ifille deniiirrer he overruled as frlvolouii. Allen v. W7nr'lri', l
Zoh. 93. }Io411’nmmp v. .4rkn*nmn, 4 Znh. 133. Ur the court is oi’
opinion that the party deniurring cannot plead siiccessftilly.

Bmtuiuvll V. Dcnnuut, 2 Hut. 278. Bee Srrlry V. P0't'ce.i Hal. Ch.

Unilul Slates ll'alcIt U). V. Lmirm-"11, 7

V1‘. 4'-9.

Theatnendmeiit will be considered as made wheiiever the

Jxn V. Grmoc. 1 Jim‘.-iiltl. Except when the practice and law
have been unsettled. ll'i'lZi'ums0n v. L'pdt'kc’, 261'. 271). See Buyys
v. Chtcheslcr, 1 Gr. 209.

28

AMENDMENTS.
original writ or bill, and the declaration, plaint, or demand, (a) or for lack
of averment of any life or lives of any person or persons, so as, upon
examination, the said person be proved to be in life, or by reason that the
venire facias, habeas corpora, or distringas, is or shall be awarded to a

wrong officer, upon an_v insuﬁicient suggestion, or by reason that any of
the jury, which tried the said issue, is or shall be misnamed, in the christian
name, surname, or addition, in any of the said writs, or in any return upon
any of the said writs, so as, upon examination. it be proved to be the same
man, who was meant to be returned,(b) or by reason that there is or shall

be no return upon any of the said writs, so as a panel of the names of the
jurors be returned and annexed to the said writ or writs, or for that the

After verdict,
judgment not to
be reversed for
want of pledges,
éc.

name of the sheriff, or other oﬁlcer, having the return thereof, is not set
to the return of any such writ, so as, upon examination, it he proved, that
the said writ was returned by the sberitl‘ or undersheriﬂ, or any such other
oﬂicer, or by reason that the plaintifff in any action of ejectment, or in
any personal action or suit (being an infant under the age of twenty-one
years) did or shall appear by attorney therein, and the verdict pass in
i'avor of such plaintifff.
11. That if any verdict of twelve men hath been or shall be given in any
action, suit, bill, plaint or demand. in any court of record, the judgment

thereupon shall not be stayed or reversed for default in form, or lack of
form, or by reason that there are no pledges, or but one pledge to prosecute,
returned upon the original writ, or ikcause the name of the sheriff is» not
returned upon such original writ, or for default of entering pledges upon
any bill or declaration, (c) or for default of alleging the bringing into court
any bond, bill, indenture or other deed whatsoever, mentioned in the decla

ration or other pleading, or for default of alleging the bringing into court
letters testamentary, or letters of administration, or by reason of the omis
sion of the words, “with force and arms,” or “against the peace," or for
or by reason of the mistaking of the christian name (d) or surname of the
plaintifff or defendant, demandant or tenant, sum or sums of money, day,
month or year, by the clerk, in any bill, declaration or pleading, where the
right christian name, surname, sum, day, month or year, in any writ,
plaint, roll or record preceding, or in the same roll or record. where the
mistake is committed, is or are truly and rightly alleged, and to which the
party might have demurred, and showed the same for cause, nor for want
of the averment of words, “and this he is ready to verify," or, “and this

he is ready to verify by the record,” or for not alleging “as appears by the
record,” or for that there is no right venue, so as the cause was tried by a
jury of the proper county or place, where the action is laid; (e) nor shall
any judgment, after verdict, be reversed for want of entering. that the
person against whom such judgment is given, “be in mercy," or, “be
taken,” or by reason that the words, “be taken," are entered for, "be in
mercy," or the words, “be in mercy,” are entered for, “be taken,” nor

for that, in the judgment, the words, “ it is granted,“ are entered for,“ it
is considered,” nor for that the increase of costs, after a verdict in any
action, or upon a non-suit in replevin, are not entered to be at the request

of the party for whom the judgment is given, nor by reason that the costs,
in any judgment whatsoever, are not entered to be by consent of the
plaintifff; but that all such omissions, (g) variances, defects, and all other
matters of like nature, not being against the right of the matter of the
suit, nor whereby the issue or trial is altered, shall be amended by the
(n) A misrccital or a \\‘l'il8S "snmmonerl" instead of "at
tached," ls no nvailnfile error.

Ilrm 1| v, l!_r/tint, 3 Hm-. 1".‘-1.

Ho

the pleadlnz and proof is immaterial, unless the party is misled
or pre_iiuiiceri by it.

Jlullnrk v. lII\"lI1‘(I7l!“P (l/., 2 lmlch. 26$

a variance between theatiltlavit to hold to bail and tne writ is

(In A sheriii may anienri a return tua venireafterit has been

not a an tiicient rt-n.~0|| to discharge hail. Rolnsou v. Thmnmon,
-i Hui. 97. Aim |', ii’ the cause of action set forth in the declara
tion is substantially vnnunt from that =0! forth in the nﬂldavit.

actually returned, by adding the name of n juror Mlninmned
and present but omitted in the panel. Bu-ry v. ii'|ll|'lun.\‘, i Zub.
423.

1(n'<l.

Sr/mick \'. srhmri-, .5 llul. :7-i.

The best inethml fur the

u-i Pledges are unnecessary. Bunk of New Bl‘tI1lIl0|¢'k v.

defendant tonvail iiini.~eii'nf a variance is ivy motion to set

Arrmvsmilh, 4 Hal. ‘B0.

aside the proceedings. ﬂonl: 1;!‘ _\'(u' b‘r:o|,m-rrk v. Ar|'mv.~m1'II:,
4 Hal. 2&1. The process being against defenvlunts as executors,

christian names.

the declaration agaimi the-In indi\'iduall_\', and the evidence on

the trial entirely against iil§'l'\1 as executors. constitutes a fntal
variance. Sltunylrx v. Ruml-,2 Hm-. 372. A variance between

1:!) Appearance and verdict cure omimion of defendants‘
Suly v. Boon. Cb:-P138.

(1 ) See Illackrnrd v. I/high Vullry R. R. G1, 24 Vr. 57.
rm The want of a Itilllililll‘ is amendable after verdict.
(rum v. Sloll, 4 Zab. 550.

Dick

AMENDMENTS.

29

court, where such judgments are or shall be given, or to which the record
is or shall be removed by writ of error. (a)

12. That where any demurrer hath been, or shall be joined and entered

The cnurt, on de

in any action or suit in any court of record of this state, the court shall pro
ceed and give judgment, according as the very right of the cause and
matter in law shall appear unto them, without regarding any imperfection,
omission, defect, or want of form, in any writ, return, plaint, declaration,
or other pleading, process. or course of proceeding whatsoever, except
those only which the party demurring shall specially and particularly set

murrer, to give
Judgment accord

down and express, together with his demurrer, as causes of the same, not

demurrer.

ing to the right
of the cause,
without regard.

ing defects not
specially shown
for cause of

withstanding that such imperfection, omission, or defect might have here
tofore been taken to be matter of substance, so as suﬁicient matter appear
in the pleadings, upon which the court may give judgment according to
the very right of the cause; (b) and thereforee no advantage or exception
shall be taken of or for an immaterial traverse, or of or for the default of

entering pledges upon any bill or declaration, or of or for the default of
alleging the bringing into court any bond, bill, indenture, or other deed
whatsoever, mentioned in the declaration or other pleading, or of or for
the default of alleging the bringing into court letters testamentary or letters
of administration, (c) or of or for the omission of the words,“ with i'orce
and arms,” or, “ against the peace,” or either of them, or of or for want of
the averment or words, “ and this he is ready to verify,” or, “ and this he
is ready to verify by the record,” or of or for not alleging, “ as appears by
the record ;" but the court shall give judgment according to the very right
of the cause as aforesaid, without regarding any such imperfections. omis
sions, or defects, or any other matter of like nature, except the same shall

be specially and particularly set down and shown for cause of demurrer;
and that no judgment shall be reversed, by any writ of error. for any such
imperfection, omission, defect, or want of form as aforesaid, except such
only as are before excepted; and every court of record of this state shall
and may, by virtue of this act, from time to time, amend all and every

such imperfections, defects, and wants of form as are before mentioned,
other than those only which the party demurring shall specially and par
ticularly express and set down, together with his demurrer, as aforesaid,
and may,at any time, permit either of the parties to amend any defect
in the process or pleadings, upon such terms and conditions as the said
court shall, in their discretion, direct and prescribe.

13. That this act shall extend to all judgments which have been or shall
be entered upon confession, nihil dicit, or non sum informatus, in any court

Defects in process
and pleadings
smendabie on
terms.

This act to ex
tend to Judgments
on confession.

of record; and no such judgment shall be reversed, nor any judgment,
upon any assessment or writ of inquiry of damages, made or executed
thereon, be stayed or reversed for or by reason of any imperfection, omis
sion, defect. matter, or thing whatsoever, which would have been aided
and cured by this act, in case a verdict of twelve men had been given in

the said action or suit, so as there be an original writ or bill duly ﬁled
according to law.
14. That all writs of error, wherein there shall be any variance from the
original record, or other defect, (d) may and shall be amended and made
agreeable to such record by the respective courts, where such writ or writs
of error shall be made returnable.
(n) The assignment of errors, blending error in fact and in
1151:, rR)l(r)y be amended after demurrer. Ihwbonr v. Denman, 2
at.

.

Vr. 166.

In an action to recover the amount of subscription to

the stock of an incorporated company, the charter must be set

out or it will be fatal on demurrer.
B1-idpr

5 Ihllfh. 367.

Pirrdlenru v. 19-mum Olly

A supplement to the charter of a pri

vate corporation stating that “it shall be deemed and taken as
a public act," will itself receive judicial recognition. Sh ve mt
J Onvlll Tram. Lb. v. (kntrul R. R.ofN. J., -i Vr. 229. It‘ one
count be in debt and anotherln aasumpall. it is n misjoinder.
Anwrn-an Linrn Thread G1. v. Sheldon, 2 Vr. 43). Illnrhmrm v.
Rulmi. 2 Vr. 496. So ii’ trespass and case are joined. Hm-zoom!
ads. 7bmpktm, 4 Zrb. 425. See Green v. Jllm-rt: and Burr B. B.,
4 21!». 4140. Dale Jmmtl. Cb. v. Grant, 8 Vr. 138. A count in the

original record

to be amended.

declaration for conversion by the testator, and another count
for conversion by his executors, constitutes a fatal misjoinder.
71>:-hum: v. Brav. 1 Har. M.

(0) An objection to the form oi‘ action is matter of substance
and may he taken advantage ofon general demurrer.
Flana
gan v. (hmden Im. 00.. l hutch. 508. Gregory v. Tltrnnpxmr, 2

‘Variance in writs
oi‘ error from the

Itthe parties have taken issue on

injuries not actionable, the judge at the circuit cannot exclude
evidence ofsuch injuries. Pom v. (‘lav-kc, Spen. 538.
(e) The omission to crave oyer of letters testamentary consti
tutes nu ground of demurrer. Hill v. Smallry, 1 Dulch. 374.
Pleading the general issue admits the pln.lntlﬂ’s
V. .Dv‘cIt-rr, Iin. ".’3l.. Ir’:-ltl V. Oraw/ord, Hm.

robate. Jon-is
Gultxrk v.

Van Ar.s<lnIm, B-n. '7-I6. Where oyer of letters testamentary
is craved, it is suiticieutw give s copy of the letters without
annexinz a copy ofthe will.

Bea:-It v. Pears, con 288.

Pro

bate of will must be set out in a bill in chancery by the execu
tor.

Plrtlrlrcau v. Rallllnme, Sax. 881.

M) Court may amend a scirefacia-I, so as to conform to the
record.

Gmdit v. G'I‘L‘[/01'_ll,1 Zab. 429.

1 Hat. 305. Apaar v. 1Iiler,4Z1b. 808.

See Greenway v. Dare,

ANIMALS.

30
Judgment after
verdict not to be
reversed for want
of form or sub

stance in any
writ.
Act shall extend
to suits for debts
due to the state.

15. That where any verdict hath been or shall be given in any action, suit,
bill, plaint, or demand, in any court of record, the judgment thereupon
shall not be stayed or reversed for any defect or fault, either in form or
substance, in any bill, writ original or judicial, or for any variance in such
writ from the declaration or other proceedings.
16. That this act shall extend to all suits, in any court of record. for the
recovery of any debt due to this state, or for any debt, duty. or revenue
belonging to the same; and also to all writs of mandamus, and informa
tions in nature of quo warranto, and proceedings thereon.

17. That all proceedings, whatsoever, in every court of law and equity in

All judicial pro
ceedings to be in
the Emzlish lan
guage. ttc.

this state, shall be in the English tongue and language, and in no other tongue
or language, and shall be written or printed in a good, strong, legible hand
or character, and in words at length. and not abbreviated. except such
abbreviations as are comm0nl_v used in the English language; (a) [n'0'Ul'(;l¢'1I
nererllieles-.-, that it shall and may be lawful to express numbers by ﬁgures,
in like manner as hath been heretofore, or is now commonly used in the
said courts respectivel_v. and to express the proper and known names of

Act to be liberally
Oonst rued.

writs or other process, or tecimical words, in such language as hath been
commoni_v used. so as the same be written or printed in a common legible
hand or character.
18. That this act.sball be taken and construed, in all courts oi’ justice, in
the most ample, beneﬁcial, and liberal manner, for the ease and beneﬁt of

the parties, and to prevent frivolous and vexatious dela_vs.
Not to extend to
indictments, ttc.

19. That no part oi’ this act. except that which directs proceedings to be
in the English language, shall extend to any indictment or presentment for
any criminal matter, or process upon the same; nor to any writ, bill,
action. or inibrination, upon any popular or penal statute. nor to any

outlawry. or process thereupon, or in order thereunto. (b)
(<17) The omission ofa letter in a word will not vitiate, unless
the meaning is thereby changed. Stale v. .Iu_v/.5 l'r. lltie. L nm-<1
-\'l(l!r.s‘ v. Iimmrm, Bald. ('. tf". 292. .\'or will the return ofa road
be set aside because one course is not actually delineated on the
map. s'mr.- v. Jlillcr. 3 Z411». 883. If the term at which an indict
ment is found is stated in the caption in figures, instead of

\\'oI'd-‘~'. it is no srround of reversal.
Imlrh. 453.

JoInl.~ron v. Th: .\’!<m, 5

But see Ihrnun v. Tin" Starr‘.-2 Z<1b_ 9.

also,

Tnppmi \'. ])u_:/hm, 6 _1Ii1-Ir. 'J6‘.‘..
'
'
ill! .-\ Rera writ oferror, the supreme court cannot amend or
onler an amendment below in a criminal case.
Stale‘, 3 Httr. ‘.206.

('rul.v r v. The

Animals.
26. Cost of food and water to

I. l’RE\'E.\'TIO.\' O1" CRI_'EI.TY TO ANI..\IALS.

impounded animals, how col

lected.
1. Incorporation of New Jersey society for prevention

of

cmelty to animals.
Amended by section 13.
Amended by section 14.

Police force required to aid society.
Fines, how disposed of.
\\~’hat constitutes a quorum.
Amended by section 15.
?".*'?.°":'~.° !° Powers of district societies.
9. District societies to have common seal, &c.

27. \\'hen arrests may be made without warrants.
2:4. Penalty for using dogs todraw carts, &c.
29. Penalty for cruelty to animals.

Amended by section 4'2.
Powers of agents and members of society, dtc.
Amended by section 46.

.3$5is‘3.—"$;§?i.3$5"3§'~?.°3-"’.¥ Scientiﬁc experiments not prohibited.
Proceedings when any person pleads guilty.

Fines for violation of ordinances, to whom paid.
Construction of words used in the act.

10. Amended by section 16.

Summons or warrants, how indorsed.

11. Disposition of fines.

Indictment not to relieve person from further penalty.

12. Status of district societies heretofore organized.

13. New Jersey society may appoint officers, &c.
14. New Jersey society may hold real .estate and personal
property.
15. District societies. how organized.
16. District societies may take property by purchase, devise,or

_ gilt.
17. Cruelty to animals a misdemeanor.
18. Penalty for tighting or baiting any bull,bear, dog, bird, &c.
19. Penalty for carrying any animal in a..cruel manner in any
vehicle.
20. Impounded animals to have food and water.
21. Amended by section -I7.
22. Amended by section 41.
‘B. Fees ofjustice.
24. Procedure on violation of section 19.

25. When warrant for arrest may issue.

Certain acts repealed.
. Amended by sections ~13 and 45.
Proceedings in case of seizure of property.
Procedure in Justices’ and district 00tlt'ts.
. Amended by section 45.
. Animal or vehicle in charge of person arrested, how treated.
Act not applicable to shooting pigeons from traps.
\\'ho may make arrests without warrant.

Disposition of sick or disabled animals found on high
way, &c.

II. PRFBERVA'I‘IO.\' OF SHEEP.
48. Tax on dogs.
49. Account to assessor required.
50. \\'ho liable to tax.
51. When dogs may be killed by any person.

68

ARBITRATION AND REFERENCES.
Supplement.

P. L. 1854, p. 4-H.
Binding may be
made to a ﬁrm or

Approved March 17, 1854.

13. SEC. 1. That the binding by indenture mentioned in the ﬁrst section
of the act to which this is a supplement, may lawfully be made to two or

eopartnership.

more persons constituting a ﬁrm or copartnership; and all such inden

lndentures not
affected by death
ofone ofa ﬂrm.

tures, if in other respects conformable to the provisions of said act, shall
be deemed and held to be valid and effectual in law; provided, that nothing
herein contained shall be so construed as to render valid any indenture of
ap renticeship made to any incorporated company.
4. SEC. 2. That in all cases of an indenture, whereby an apprentice or
servant is or shall be bound to serve several persons, constituting a ﬁrm
or copartnership, and one or more of such persons shall die before the

expiration of the term of apprenticeship or service mentioned in any such
indenture, then the covenants and agreements contained therein, on the

part of the parent or guardian of such apprentice or servant, and on the
part of such apprentice or servant, shall accrue and be performed to the

survivors or survivor, and such survivors or survivor shall perform and
fulﬁll to the apprentice or servant, all the covenants and agreements con
tained in any such indenture on the part of the persons to whom such
apprentice shall be bound, to be performed, fulﬁlled and kept.

Supplement.
T. L. 1871, p. Ii
'O0nsent of
mother, if living,

necessary to
‘|B§l1|'Y ofin
~d9l1Il!1€.

Approved February 15, 1871.

15. SEC. l. That hereafter the binding by indenture mentioned in the
ﬁrst section of the act to which this is a further supplement, shall not be
lawful without the consent of the mother, if living, to such indenture,
signiﬁed by her signing and sealing the same.

An act to authorize citizens of this state to take apprentices bound

to them outside of this state.
Approved March 17, 1875.

P. L. 1875, p. 29.
Citizens of this
state authorized
to take appren
tices bound to
them outside
of this stale.

16. Sr-10.1. That citizens of this state may take and enter into inden
tures executed outside of this state whereby minors are bound to them to
serve in this state, and that in all such cases parties binding said minors,
and the masters or mistresses of said apprentices, shall be entitled to the

same remedies against each other as if the said indentures had been duly
executed in this state.

Arbitration and References.
I.
2.
8.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Submission to arbitration may be made rule ofcou rt.
When and bow award set aside.
Proceedings upon report made.
Referees to be»-nvorn.
Process for witnesses‘ and referees‘ fees.
Arbitrators to he sworn.
Process for \\-iiiicssvs before arbitrators.
Eili|illl)'\‘S may submit question of wages to arbitration.
Two arbltmturs to (-'lI‘('l(\ third.

10. Finiiinz ofnrhitraiors to be binding.

20.
21.
22.
23.
21.
25.
26.
27.
28.

Board to receive no compensation.
Repealer.
Board of arbitration under act oi‘ I892.
Board, how approved and established.
Oath and power of arbitmiors.
\\'hen decision oi‘ bonrd io be rendered.
\‘\'hal grievances board mnydetcrniine.
Slate board of arbitration to be formed.
Proceedings on appeal to stale hoard.

D. Submission of1.:rievances(lirecll_v to state board,

ll. Costs of nrbilnnion, by whom paid.

30. State board to decide matters within what time.

12. What r:rlc\-um.-i-s may be submitted to arbitration, under
act of 1886.

3|. Power in case oi‘ lock-outs.
82. Witness foes and subpu-nas for witnesses.

13. Oath of arbitrators.
14. Arbitrators to select secretary nmi give notice of meeting.

33. Board to report annually to legislature.
3-i. Compensation oi‘ arbitrators and secretary.

15.
16.
17.
I8.
19.

35.
36.
87.
88.
39.

Subpamas for witnesses, bow issued.
Procedure before board of B1‘hll!'8i0IS.
Board may make and enforce rules.
Decision of board, when to be rendered.
When pou-er of board to cease.

Meaning of term " employer" or "cmpioyel's.“
Constitution and salary ofstate board.
l-{ow vacancies are to be iliied.
Terms of members holding prior to i895 lerminaied.
Successors of board appointed. how.

ARBITRATION AND REFERENCES.

An act for regulating references and determining controversies

69

Rev. 158, 654.

by arbitration.
Approved April 15, 1846.

R- 3- 113

1. 'l‘hat it shall and may be lawful for all persons (0.) who are desirous of S"b""’~‘*i°"‘°
ending, by arbitration, any controversy, suit, quarrel or matter in conten

tion, for which there is no other remedy but by personal action, or suit
in equity, to agree, that their submission of the suit to the award or
umpirage of any person or persons (_b) shall be made a rule of any of the
courts of record oi‘ this state, which the parties shall choose, and to insert
such their agreement in their submission, or the condition of the bond, or
promise, whereby they oblige themselves respectively to submit to the
award or umpirage of any person or persons;(c) which agreement, being
so made and inserted in their submission, or promise, or condition of their
respective bonds, shall or may, upon producing an aﬂidavit thereof, made

arbitration may
be made rule of
court.

Proof to be made.

by the witnesses (d) thereunto, or any one of them, in the court of which

t-he same is agreed to be made a rule, and reading and ﬁling the said aili
davit in court, be entered of record in such court, and a rule shall there
upon be made, by the said court, that the parties shall submit to, and
ﬁnally be concluded by, the arbitration or umpirage which shall be made
concerning them by the arbitrators or umpire pursuant to such submis
sion; and in case of disobedience to such arbitration or umpirage, the
party refusing or neglecting to perform and execute the same or any part
thereof, shall be subject to all the penalties of contemning a rule of court,
when he is a suitor or defendant in such court, and the court, on motion,
shall issue process accordingly, which process shall not be stopped or
delayed in its execution by any order, rule, command or process of any
other court, either of law or equity, unless it shall be made to appear on
oath or affirmation to such court, that the arbitrators or umpire mis
behaved themselves. and that such award, arbitration or umpirage was
procured by corruption or other undue means. (e)
(ft) All admi-tE~t r.itor lnziy luwfniiy submit claims against the
estate I0 aroitr.tIio|i. 1'. um v. JI'xn'l‘,l _\I('l.‘n;-!_ 436, .lI(‘l\'nn
V. Uv'I)1Ii1m!. Zl Hm‘. 4-t‘.’.. See .S'Iuvm"I V. kit-hr_r/, 2 Hm-. 16-i.
The nlintIii'yul'it corporation. althou;.;h unauthorized under
|'->r|n_it't\lt- a-Pdi tot-on~|-nt to rei‘erence.. |na_v soconsent. Munici

ptl corporation hats power to submit a controversy to arbitra
tion unless (ll\ill)lL*(l by charter or lnipIiedly.by nature of sub
ject-iimtlt-t'.
-'.-irvl V. Bu_i/mom, 10 1'1‘. 5.39,
to) if reh-rn.-d to three personsall inust act. ﬂloore V. Ewing,
Pore it-i. H-15!’ v. Tuizlor, ‘.5 Sonllt. ‘S29. }{q[Tmun V. Ho_[!‘umn,
'.‘ ,)tHI'h_ I75. But if two slim the award it is suilicient, and it is

not nevi-~~'ar_v that it should appear upon the face oi’ the award
tint the third airhitratorwas pi'e.~1ent. Rogrrs V. Thfmn, I Dutch.
‘.'-‘.2 llqffmmt V. Hhflmtm, 2 I)ulch. 175. See Smi!/I V. The‘.
Tim/ou Ik/aware Fu//.< (h.,'2 Hm‘. 5.
An aigreement by the

parties to substitute other arbitrators in the place ofthose first
tainted, i~§oliltgator_V. _i!"('lm-e v. (mliclr, 2 Hm-. 340. \Vhen 3
new arbitrator is chosen by the original arbitrators, either party
has the right to atiduce tiilditional testimony. West Jersey R. R.

tn. v. 7'homus, 6 0. 1-,‘. 1.-'.-.-:05, s (1 L‘. Hr. 432, 9 ('. 1:. Gr. 507.
The appointment ofan umpire or third arbitrator by chance is
bud. "Hr! V. I\'lmn~rI_o/, ‘Z [he-1.". 5|.

tr) A tier the .~‘uhltI|.~4Sit)Ii. It is too late to except to the form of
.'I(‘.tntl or to :in_vthiin..' in the processor declaration.

Hnzm v.

24 I-lv-1. 2 Ur. 333. Oriitter the award is made. Smith v. Minor,
tpff lit,

til) The aﬁidavit must. be made before an oﬂlcer of the court
mentioned in the .\t|l)lili."mi|iIl.
Jluzui v. Addis, 2 (Jr. 333. An
affidavit. taken bi-fore a justice of the peace is insuiticient.
Aomn_r/moan, 3 llul. I76, see ]\'u('In!I(t|| V. Rmisom, 6 l'r. 566.
A »UDtlll'4\iIIlI may he made a rule of court. even after award
inside. .V"("ltn'v: \'. Hulirk", 2 Hm‘. 3-I0. After the rule i8 eli

tered the subniissionis irrevocable. Ftrrts V. ﬂltmn, 2 Zab. 161.
D'Q'8 f'rar'!f_|!‘N \'. l)' HIHUII, 3 .H(|(. iii’.

iv l The award must he certain, mutual and final upon all the
iiiiitters submitted. .‘llI'1\'un V. Oliplumt, 3 Jlar. 4-12. Iluzcn
v. Jitiln. 2 Hr. 316. An award tor l. s. d. sterling, payable in
bills ofext-lianee. or so much current money as will purchase
such bill~. is good. Waitlrr V. ll'ha1nll, (.1010 84. Technicallties
are uiiiiecessary. (‘hm V. Lumly, CD16 2-55. The had will be
§Q‘p'.lT1'll('l| froth the good,so that theaward may stand. 11009
luml V. l'o_r!h!v, 3 Zulu. 92. Rogers V. Tlililm, I llulrh. 281. \\v'h€ll
ctuiinsagnimt a party,both in his own right and in a represen
tative character. are submitted, the award should show in
what t-tmnictertlie amount awarded is tobe paid. Hoﬁmmt
V. Ilofhmm, 2 llulrli. I75. See Bell V. Price, 2Zub. 579. An award
cannot operate asaconveyance oi‘ lands.
I» n.-S'm'1(/."n'.t v.
Allm. Plrn. '35 But the arbitrators may award that one party
execute a conveyance oflands to the other. Imlny v. It'll.-017', l

.v mm °l32. Ur ilmt. one party deliver the p0SSQt~1~sio|l oi‘ land to
theother. Dm, (Vunmcr V. 7'a_v/Im-,Pr~n. '876. rm» V. Lmidi/,
(‘ow ‘.'.'>’>. See in-rmv. l.umI_t/. (bu 435. A clause in the sub
lllisiitill “ that the award beready to be delivered to the parties
or such of them as shall demand the same, on or before," &e.,

Performance of
award enforced.

How process
stayed.

is performed if the award be .'~i'_’lN;.'tl within the time spet-iﬁed,
neither party calling for it. .1!-o-/m V. .~‘l!cIin~1nick. 5 l'r.
A
court of equity will not set a~ide an award because not delivered
in tinie, when the delivery was restrained by injunction at the
stilt of the party making the objection. lI'r.s'! J: I§(_l/ R. R. ('0.
V. Tliomio-. S 1.‘. E. (Ir. 432.
Papers or documents delivered by
the arbitrator with the award are considered as part ofit. Bell
V. Price, 2 Zub. 578. See Taylor V. .S'uyre, 4 Znb. ti-l7.

I. An award may be set 9.Si(lG for mistakes of low.
1. E.\'ceedingthr~ submission. Young v. )'mtn{1, 2 Hal. Oh,
450. Jlnzcn V. xl(l(it'.\‘,'..'. Hr. 333. li'¢.-I1-oi! V. -$'mnrrs. 4 Jlul. 99.
§'mi!h V. Trrnlnn D1/(l|l‘tiI'C Hill.-t (iu., 2 Jlur. 5. 1t’ucI."mun V.
}.’mt.s-om, 6 Vi‘. 56.").
I’:-_r//He V. 1-lortglmitl. '3 S!tn'It'. 45.
Huttytand
V. Vr_r1liIr', 3 Zu(1.‘.l'.3. See R0{1vr.\r V. Titftmt, 1 Dulcli. ‘.191.
‘Z. Declining to arbitrate part. Richttrvls V. 1):-ink’ r. 1 Hal.
307. Jlnrker V. Hon;/h, 2 Hal. 4'28. Swill: V. J)(nmre.sI, 3 Jlol.
195. I)(Ii'l.\‘OI| V. Juhnsun,1 ('. E. Gr. 113. Although the award
omit to decide a matter e.\'pressl_v submitted. it‘ accepted by the
parties mid acts have been done to give it etfect, it inust stand.
Cross v. (‘rot-.1. 2 l..". E. Gr. 28$.
3. Admitting illegal evidence. Fenintorr‘ v. ('hilds, 1 Jlnl.
3276. Eire V. 17ii"nnimor(. Pen. ‘Q32. See Livingston, V. Combs,
re 4 .
4. ()r rejecting competent evidence. BtII‘1'()tI[!/4.1 V. Th0r1u‘,2
South. ‘T77. we J1.-1.\'up V. (bok, (‘ore 105. §':~In"'m~I.' V. Cullrtll,
1 Ur. Uh. 297.
5. Proceeding without giving one of the parties an oppor
tEunity to be heard. Wes! J(1‘8t_t/ Railroad ('0. v. Thorrms, 6 C.
». U1‘. 205.

886. Refusing a. proper adjournment. Cbrytll v. (bryell, Cbxe
5.
7. Vvhere the mistake is apparent on its face, or by the state
ment of the arbitrator. Bf” V. ]’I'|(‘(', 2 Zoo. 579.
Tu]/(or v.
S(l_lfI‘f‘, 4 Zoh. 648. But ifthe arbltratotsdeclde against law, not
by mistake, but ofpurpose, in order to make a just award, it
will not be disturbed. il'e.\.'t Jirscy Railroad ('o_ \'. T/umius, 6
C. E. (ir. 205. Ruc/nnan V. .Rtm.s0nt, 8 ('. 1}. Gr. 118.
II. Mistakes of fact.
1. Uticertalnty. Sheppard V. Sfiles, 2 Hal. 90. .UcKc0n v.
Allen, 2 Hur. 506. See Rom-rs v. Tttlum, 1 .Duh.-/i. 281.
2. Miscaiculatlori. Jfeuglund v. Veﬂhlr, 2.s'!ork. 45. Bell V.

Price, 2 Zab. 579. See Richardson V. Lmmmg, 2 Dulrh. 130.
3. Apparent on the face of the award. Hrnn v. Lundy,
Cr}? 435. Schcnck V. Voorhcrs, 2JiIul. 383. -Slaerron V. li'ootl,
5
01.7.
III. Corruption and irregularity.
.-ilkinson V. Tmvnlcy (hrs 388.
Sloll V. Pricrgl Zub. 32, 2
Zttb. 578. lI'r.~'! JlI‘.'l’!_l/ imilructtl Cb. V. Thomas, 8 C. E’. I-'i'. 431,
9 (‘.13. Hr. 567.
ii‘/ivgulon V. Crane", 12 C’. 1'}. (Jr. 368. .Hui't V.

, J1’: nnedy, 2.’ Dick. 5|. Burr V. Chandler, 2 Dick. 532.

ARBITRATION AND REFERENCES.

70
How set aside.

2. That any arbitration or nmpirage, procured by corruption or undue
means, shall be judged and esteemed void and of none effect, and accord

ingly be set aside by any court of law or equity, (a) so as complaint of
such corruption or undue practice be made in the court where the rule
is made for submission to such arbitration or umpiragc, before the last
day of the next term after such arbitration or ulnpirage has been made
and published to the parties. (b)
Prowedlngs
iwon report made.

3. That whenever a cause shall be referred by rule of court to referees,

the report or award of such referees, or of the major part of them, if
conﬁrmed by the court, shall be ﬁnal, and conclude the parties; and if
any sum be thereby found for the plaintifff or plaintifffs, judgment shall
be entered and execution issued for the same, with costs, if, by law, the
plaintifff or plaintifffs would have recovered costs, had a verdict passed
in the same cause f'or the sum so reported to be due; but if the referees,

or the major part of them, report that there is not anything due to the
plaintifff or plaintiff‘l's, and the report be conﬁrmed, thenjudgment shall be
entered against the plaintifff’ or plaintifffs, that he, she or they take nothing
by his, her or their writ, bill or plaint, and the defendant or defendants
shall, in such case, have judgment for and recover his, her or their costs

Referee to be
swom.

Process for
witnesses.

Referees‘ fees.

Arbitrators
sworn.

against the plaintifff or plaintifffs, if, by law, the defendant or defendants
would have been entitled to costs, had a verdict passed in the same cause
f'or him. her or them; and if the referees, or the major part of them,
report any sum to be due to the defendant or defendants, and the report
be conﬁrmed, then judgment shall be entered and execution issued against
the plaintifff or plaintiffls, for the sum so reported to be due to such defend
ant or defendants, with costs, if, by law, the defendant or defendants would
have been entitled to costs, had a verdict in the same cause passed against
him, her or them. (0)
4. That in every cause referred by rule of court, each referee shall,
before he proceeds to the business of the reference, take an oath or affirma
tion faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the cause in qnestion,and
make a just and true report according to the best of his skill and under
standing; which oath or affirmation any judge of any court of record, or
any justice of‘ the peace (ll) of this state is hereby authorized and required
to administer. (e)
5. In every cause referred by rule of court, process of subpoena may
issue out of such court to convene witnesses before the referees, and the
said witnesses shall be examined on oath or afiirmation; which oath or

affirmation the referees in the said cause are hereby authorized to adminis
ter; and there shall be allowed to every such referee, one dollar for every
day necessarily spent in the business of the reference, besides a reasonable
allowance for his expenses, which, in the ﬁrst instance, shall he paid by
the prevailing party, and shall afterwards be allowed to such party in the
taxation of costs where costs are recoverable.
6. In cases of arbitration, every arbitrator shall, before he proceeds to
the business submitted to him, take an oath or affirmation of the like

nature with that hereinbefore prescribed to be taken by referees, and to be
administered in like manner. (_r/)
If no costs are mentioned In the award, none can be allowed.
/iH0l|_|/m1n|<, H n. '.‘.'24. Amln-.um v. Jlrlvu. 1 Sonlh. ‘l7-‘l (u J.
Proceedings In un action on the arbitration bond. Tliompann
v. Hlrrwy, Pm. ‘sen. Slumnrrd v. N!/11.1.2 Hal. 90. .Hm~Ir1r
v. Hough, 2 Hal. 428. -5'11:-r/‘on V. lfoml, 5 Hal. 7.
On the

award. RlFIllI7‘lI8 v. Driulrrr, I Hal. 307. Hung v. ﬂ»llfm<,3
Hal‘. 294. and llulfunm v. IIu_/lmun. 2 Duh-la. l7-5. 1-1011!/lurul v.
Vrglllr, 3ZuI». 9‘_‘.
IIM/1'! v. I-'/11,1/I/. ‘Z Imlrll. 368. Rurlrmnn v.
Baum/n,6 l'r.56-3. 1)m'um| v. .Iulm.\on, 1 C‘. E. Gr. H3. On

an uflachinenf. .'lI1'I)1rnml v. Bullvr, 5 .H(ll. 158.

Mr!‘/are v.

n'n1:‘<-Iv, 2 Ifur. Mu, 135 Costs on am-h nftachmeni.
Jlfrlhmmt
l21li&“73‘he Slulr, -'3 JI-ll. 6;].
see Jlluymmu v. 1‘m'klmr.xI,3 Hr.
'|. - .
An appeal llca from an order of the clrcnit cnnrf, refuslna to

set aside an award. I')mm'.1 v. SliIm,‘). 1',-. 490. 1~'m'4l v. Pol/..-,
l H111. 385. See Jraxilp v. Gmlv, (.h.u: 105. 1‘uylurv.Say1'r,4
Zllh. 042-.

A wrlim-an will not lll‘\\'l\PfP the snhmlaslnn llﬂ§lIOlill'PIl
lllﬂfll,‘ a rulv of wurl.
ll'l|mhmd v. (1'u1_!/, T Hul. 36. sh”-I-mi
V. |l'omI, 5 llul. 7.
(:1 I:l<|nfl_v will no! Interfere aﬁer fl|r- subnil.-slnn has been

nun e u. rule In tlliulllrl’ Uutlrl.

ll'1.\I .Im..l,q Imnruud 0,. v.

77|r>mns, 6 C. E. Gr. 205.

The rules for selling aside an award

are the same in law and equity.

Brll \'. Price, l Znb. 3;‘,

Ilarlxllurnr V. Onllrvll, l (Ir. ('l|.29T.

H'|ll|u/us V. ll’numr,7

L’. E. l1‘r.5T-'i.
(/1) A party has nnlll the last day offhe term succeeding the
publical on of an award, to except to if. Um, l'(lIl(‘f)(l»'ll \'.
Curlix, l HUI. H5.

(rr) Power to refer causes, elther at common ln\vnr nmh-r
above acf,arlaes only upon the submission and con-<enl uI'.l 1.
purties to the cause. Nocourf can make such an order ¢'.r m- 1mulu. 7’|m|.mn v. Snolvr, '27 l'r- -ll.

1-I) An arbitrator mayb -sworn before; master lu rhancery.
Ruwknuni V. Rl1ns0rn,6 l'r. 56-’).
(I) Referees must be sworn. Brown v. Lrmnlng, Pm. 'l-39.
Rlrvex V. GQIT. Pita. ‘H
H1;-I.-rr \'. Crammer. ha. "QTI.

('1-mnrner v. Jllulluc, Pm.
Lr'lII(' v. Slim-1/for-m~, 1+“.

330.
~n.

olmyzr v. Rnlzllr, hm. ‘wu.

|_n) Arhllralors must ho .-\vurn,

‘$94.

Thnmpmn V. Hnrlvyl, Prn.

laslzr v. I-‘lug/11, ‘Z Dull-ll. 36!. ('umhI v. I.:lII(, 3|-‘r. ('11.

am.
Buf. not before fixing ihe time and place of siuing.
I.'m~knmu \'. Rmlsmn, ll l'r. 56-3. See 1-brd V. PblI|,l.Hal.888.
Jm'm\uu v. ]i’¢Irlnun, 3 Ur. Ch.

ARBITRATION AND REFERENCES.
_ 7. In all cases of arbitration, it shall be lawful for any justice of the
peace within the county wherein such arbitration may be, to issue sub

71
Process for wit
nesses before
arbitrators.

poenas for witnesses to appear before the arbitrator or arbitrators, and for

him or such arbitrator or arbitrators to swear or aﬂirm such or any other
"witnesses before the same ; and if any such witness shall not appear when
so subpmnaed, or if appearing, shall refuse to be sworn or affirmed and
give evidence, he shall be liable to the same ﬁnes and penalties as he would
be by law for. such default or refusal, if committed in any court of record
in this state.

An act to provide for the arbitration of labor disputes.
Approved March 10, 1880.

Vi/IIEREAS, Disputes between workingmen and their employers frequently

P. L. 1880, p. 178.

Preamble.

result in protracted strikes, which cause great loss to both parties and to

the community at large, and disturb the amicable relations which ought to
exist between labor and capital; and_ zvhereas, it is desirable to provide
some legal method for submitting such differences to arbitration, with a
view to an honorable, 'satisfactory and speedy settlement; thereforee,
8. SEC. 1. That if a majority of the employes in any manufacturing
establishment, or in any particular department thereof, shall give notice to
their employer or employers, in writing, signed by themselves, that they
are dissatisﬁed with the terms or conditions on which they are employed,
or with the wages they are receiving, or with any proposed reduction of
their wages or proposed alteration of the terms or conditions on which they
are employed, and that they propose to submit the matters complained of
to arbitration, and shall name an arbitrator to represent them; and if such
employer or employers cannot adjust such differences, it shall be the duty
of such employer or employers, if they choose to accept this method of
compromise, to nominate and appoint, in writing, an arbitrator to represent
him or them, and to give notice to said employes of such appointment.
9. SEO. 2. That the two arbitrators, so as aforesaid appointed, shall
forthwith meet and proceed to select a third arbitrator; and the said three

Em ployes dissat

Lsﬁed with wages,
&c., may submit
matters com
plained ofto

arbitration.

Employers and
employee may
appoint arbitra
tor, &c.

The two arbitra
tors to select a
third.

arbitrators shall without unnecessary delay notify the employes and the
employer or employers of the time and place when and where they will meet
to hear arguments on the matters in dispute, which meetings shall be held
under such conditions, rules and regulations as the said arbitrators may
mutually agree upon ; the questions at issue shall be submitted to the arbi
trators in writing, and their decision shall be conﬁned to the questions so
submitted; either of such arbitrators may administer an oath or afﬁrma- .
tion to any person testifying before them,and any person so sworn who
shall testify falsely, shall be deemed guilty of perjury; either of the par
ties to such arbitration may be represented before the arbitrators by coun
sel, if they so desire, and the arguments may be oral or in writing, as the
parties themselves may respectively prefer.

10. SEC. 3. That the ﬁnding of the said arbitrators shall be reduced to
writing, and a copy thereof served upon each of the parties to the dispute,
or upon their respective representatives, and shall be deemed to be binding

Finding of arbi
trators to be bind
ing upon all
parties.

upon both parties submitting the matters in dispute to arbitration, and

shall take effect from the date of the ﬁnding, unless some other time is
ﬁxed in the ﬁnding for the taking effect thereof.
11. SEO. 4. That the costs of arbitration shall be ﬁxed and paid as the
parties may previously or mutually agree, and if not so agreed upon, they
shall be ﬁxed and paid as the arbitrators themselves may decide.

Costs of arbitra
tion, by whom
paid.

72

ARBITRATION AND REFERENCES.

An act to provide for the amicable adjustment of grievances and
disputes that may arise between employers and employee.

P. L. 1586. p. 8X5
Grievances or
disputes may be

qibmitted tn
arbitrators.

Number ot‘arbl
iralors and how
appointed.

Approved April 28, 1886.

12. S1’-zc. l. That whenever any grievance or dispute of any nature shall
arise between any employer, joint stock association, company or corpo
ration engaged in manufacturing, and his, their or its employes, it shall be
lawful by the mutual consent oi‘ the parties to submit the same in writing
to a board of arbitrators for hearing and settlement, which board shall be
composed oi‘ ﬁve persons; a. majority of said employes, at a meeting duly
held for that purpose, shall have the power to designate two persons to act
as arbitrators in their behalf, the employer, ﬁrm,joint stock association,
company or corporation as aforesaid shall have the power to designate two
arbitrators, and the said four arbitrators shall designate a ﬁfth person as
arbitrator, who shall be the chairman of the bonrd.

Arbitrators I0
take oath, &c.

Board to select
secretary and to
give notice of
time and place
of hearing and

determining dis
putes, &c.

Who authorized
to issue subpmnas
for production of
books, &o, and
attendance of
witneaes.
Penalty for refus
ing to appear and
give testimony,
&c.
Chairman of
board em powered

to administer
oaths.
Majority of board
to provide for ex
amination oi
books. &c.
Proviso.

13. SEC. 2. That each arbitrator shall, before he proceeds to the business
of the arbitration, take and subscribe an oath or aﬂirmntion faithfully and
impartially to hear and examine the grievance in dispute or question, and
to discharge his duties as such arbitrator according to the best of his skill
and understanding, which oath or affirmation shall be taken and subscribed
before any oﬂicer authorized to administer the same.

14. SEC. 3. That when the said board is ready for the transaction of busi
ness, it shall select one of its number to act as secretary, whose duty it
shall be, when ordered by the board, to give at least two days’ notice in
writing to the parties to the dispute of the time and place of hearing the
same, which notice may be served personally on the parties or by ﬁxing
the same to the principal outer door or gate of the establishment of said
employer, ﬁrm,joint stock association, company or corporation, or where,
from any reason, service as aforesaid cannot be had, then the same may be
served as said board shall direct.
15. SEO. 4. That it shall be lawful for anyjustice of the peace, or the

clerk of any court of record within the county wherein such board of
arbitrators may be, to issue subpoenas for the production of books and
papers and for the attendance of witnesses before said board; and if any
such witness, when so Sl1l)})(BI1:l€(l, shall not appear in accordance with the
command of such writ, or, if appearing, shall refuse to be sworn or aﬁirmed
and give evidence, he or she, as the case may be, shall be liable to the same
ﬁnes and penalties as he or she would be by law for such default or refusal
if committed in any court of record in this state.
16. SEO. 5. That the said witnesses shall be examined on oath or affirma
tion, which oath or aﬂirmation the chairman of said board is hereby
empowered to administer; a majority of said board may provide for the
examination and investigation of books, documents and accounts pertain
ing to the matters in dispute and belonging to either party; provided, that
the board may unanimously direct that instead of producing books, papers
and accounts before the board, an accountant agreed upon by the entire
board may be appointed to examine such books, papers and accounts, and
such accountant shall be sworn well and truly to examine such books,
documents and accounts as may be presented to him, and to report the
result of such examination in writing; before such examination the infor

mation desired and required by the board shall be plainly stated in writing
and presented to said accountant, which statement shall be signed by said
board; attorneys-at-law or other agents of either party to the dispute shall
not be permitted to appear or take part in any of the proceedings of the
board, but the same shall be, as far as possible, voluntary.
Board may make
and enforce rules,
&c.

17. SEC. 6. That said board may make and enforce rules for the govern
ment of itself and the transaction of business before it and fix its sessions
and adjonrnments, and shall hear and examine such witnesses as may be
brought before the board, and such other proof as may be given relative
to the matter in dispute.

ARBITRATION AND REFERENCES.

18. SEC. 7. That after the matter in dispute has been fully heard, the
said board, or a majority thereof, shall, within ﬁve days, render a decision
thereon, which decision shall be reduced to writing, signed by the arbi
trators agreeing thereto, and shall set forth such details as will clearly
show the points considered by said board and the nature of the decision;
said decision shall be a ﬁnal settlement of the matters referred to said
arbitrators, and shall be binding and conclusive between the parties; it
shall be executed in three parts, one copy of which shall be given to each
of the parties to the dispute, and the remaining copy shall be ﬁled in the
oﬁice of the clerk of the county, there to remain of record.

19. SI-:0. 8. That when the said board shall have reached a decision and
ﬁled their report, as set forth in section seven of this act, its power shall
cease, unless there may be in existence at the same time other similar griev
ances or disputes between the same classes of persons mentioned in section
one, and in such case such persons may submit their differences to the said
board, which shall have power to act and arbitrate and decide upon the
same as fully as if said board was originally created for the settlement of
such other difference or differences.
20. SEC. 9. That the members of said board shall not receive any com
pensation for their services, but the expenses of said board may be met and
paid by voluntary subscriptions, which the board is hereby authorized to
receive for that purpose.

21. SEC. 10. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act be
and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act
immediately.

shall

Board to render
decision, and what

to set forth.

Decision to he
ﬁnal and binding
on ail parties.

When power of
board to cease.

Other ditferences
may be submitted
in the board.

Board to receive
no compensation.
Expenses may be
met, and bow
paid.

Repeaier.

take effect

An act to provide for the amicable adjustment of grievances and
disputes that may arise between employers and employee, and
to authorize the creation of a. state board of arbitration.
Approved March 24, 1892.

22. SEC. 1. That whenever any grievance or dispute of any nature
growing out of the relation of employer and employe shall arise or exist
between employer and employes, it shall be lawful to submit all matters
respecting such grievance or dispute, in writing, to a board of arbitrators,
to hear, adjudicate and determine the same; said board shall consist of
ﬁve persons; when the employes concerned in any such grievance or dis

P. L. 1%, p. 238.
Board of arbitra
tors to determine
labor diﬂiculties,
how constituted.

pute as aforesaid are members in good standing of any labor organization,
which is represented by one or more delegates in a central body, the said

central body shall have power to designate two of said arbitrators; and
the employer shall have the power to designate two others of said arbi
trators, and the said four arbitrators shall designate a ﬁfth person, as
arbitrator, who shall be chairman of the board; in case the employes eon
cerned in any such grievance or dispute as aforesaid are members in good
standing of a labor organization which is not represented in a central body,
then the organization of which they are members shall have the power to

select and designate two arbitrators for said board, and said board shall be
organized as hereinbefore provided; and in case the employes concerned
in any such grievance or dispute as aforesaid are not members of any labor
organization, then a majority of said employes, at a meeting duly held for
that purpose, shall designate two arbitrators for said board, and the said
board shall be organized as hereinbefore provided.

23. SEC. 2. That any board as aforesaid selected may present a petition
to the county judge of the county where such grievances or disputes to be
arbitrated may arise, signed by at least a majority of said board, setting
forth in brief terms the nature of the grievance or dispute between the
parties to said arbitration, and praying the license or order of such judge
establishing and approving said board of arbitration; upon the presenta
tion of said petition it shall be the duty of the said judge to make an order
establishing such board of arbitration and referring the matters in dispute

to it for hearing, adjudication and determination; the said petition and

County judge to
approve and

establish the
boani upon
petition.

74

ARBITRATION AND REFERENCES.
order or a copy thereof shall be ﬁled in the oﬂlce of the clerk of the county
in which the said judge resides.

Oath of
arbitrators.

Secretary

of board.
Chairman to have
power to issue
subpoenas.

Board to make
rules and exam
ine witnesses.

Board to render
a decision in ten

dun

Appeal.

Board may de
termine other
similar griev
ances.

Govemor to
appoint a state
board of arbi
tration.

Secretary
of board.

24. Sac. 3. That the arbitrators so selected shall sign a consent to act
as such, and shall take and subscribe an oath before an oﬂicer authorized
to administer oaths, to faithfully and impartially discharge his duties as
such arbitrator, which consent and oath shall be immediately ﬁled in the
oﬂlce of the clerk of the county wherein such arbitrators are to act ; when
the said board is ready for the transaction of business it shall select one
of its members to act as secretary, and the parties to the dispute shall
receive notice of a time and place of hearing; the chairman shall have
power to administer oaths and to issue subpomas for the production of
books and papers, and for the attendance of witnesses, to the same extent
that such power is possessed by the courts of record or the judges thereof
in this state; the board may make and enforce the rules for its govern
ment and transaction of the business before it and ﬁx its sessions and
adjonrnments, and shall hear and examine such witnesses as may be
brought before the board, and such other proof as may be given relative
to the matters in dispute.
25. SEC. 4. That alter the matter has been fully heard, the said board,
or a majority of its members, shall, within ten days, render a decision
thereon, in writing, signed by them, giving such details as will clearly
show the nature of the decision and the matters adjudicated and deter
mined; such adjudication and determination shall be a settlement of the
matter referred to said arbitrators, unless an appeal is taken therefrom, as
hereinafter provided; the adjudication and determination shall be in dupli
cate, one copy of which shall be ﬁled in the oiiice of the clerk of the
county, and the other transmitted to the secretary of the state board of arbi
tration hereinafter mentioned, together with the testimony taken before
said board.
26. SEC. 5. That when the said board shall have rendered its adjudica
tion and determination its power shall cease, unless there may be in exist
ence at the time other similar grievances or disputes between the same
classes of persons mentioned in section one, and in such case such persons
may submit their diﬁ'erences to the said board, which shall have power to
act and adjudicate and determine the same as fully as if said board was
ori inally created for the settlement of such other difference or differences.
7. SEO. 6. That within thirty days after the passage of this act the gov
ernor shall appoint a state board of arbitration, to consist of three compe
tent persons, each of whom shall hold his oﬂice for the term of ﬁve years;
one of said persons shall be selected from a bona ﬁde labor organization of
this state; if any vacancy happens by resignation or otherwise the gov
ernor shall, in the same manner, appoint an arbitrator for the residue of
the term; said board shall have a secretary, who shall he appointed by and
hold oﬁlce during the pleasure of the board and whose duty it shall be to

keep a full and faithful record of the proceedings of the board and also

Oatli oi oiilce.

Oﬂice In the
capitol.

Yroceedings on
appeal to state

hoard.

possession of all documents and testimony forwarded by the local boards of
arbitration, and perform such other duties as the said board may prescribe;
he shall have power, under the direction of the board, to issue subpoenas,
to administer oaths in all cases before said board, to call for and exam
ine books, papers and documents of any parties to the controversy, with
the same authority to enforce their production as is possessed by the courts
of records, or the judges thereof, in this state; said arbitrators of said state
board and the clerk thereof shall take and subscribe the constitutional oath
of oﬁice, and be sworn to the due and faithful performance of the duties of
their respective oﬁices before entering upon the discharge of the same; an
oiiice shall be set apart in the capitol by the person having charge thereof,
for the proper and convenient transaction of the business of said board.
[See Secs. 36 to 39, post]

28. SEO. 7. That an appeal may be taken from the decision of any local
board of arbitration within ten days alter the ﬁling of its adjudication and
determination of any case; it shall be the duty of the said state board of

ARBITRATION AND REFERENCES.

75

arbitration to hear and consider appeals from the decisions of local boards
and promptly to proceed to the investigation of such cases, and the adjudi
-cation and determination of said board thereon shall be ﬁnal and conclusive
in the premises upon all parties to the arbitration; such adjudications and
determinations shall be in writing, and a copy thereof shall be furnished to
each party; any two of the state board of arbitrators shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business and may hold meetings at any time
or place within the state; examinations or investigations ordered by the
-state board may be held and taken by and bei'ore any one of their number
if so directed; but the proceedings and decision of any single arbitrator
shall not be deemed conclusive until approved by the board or a majority
thereof; each arbitrator shall have power to administer oaths.
29. S1-:0. 8. That whenever any grievance or dispute of any nature shall
arise between any employer and his employes, it shall be lawful for the
parties to submit the same directly to said state board in the ﬁrst instance,
in case such parties elect to do so, and shall jointly notify said board or its
-clerk, in writing, of such election; whenever such notiﬁcation

to said

Quorum.

Examination
may be held
before any one
member.

Grievances may
be submitted di
rectly to state
board.
Proceii ure.

board or its clerk is given, it shall be the duty of said board to proceed,
with as little delay as possible, to the locality of such grievance or dispute,
and inquire into the cause or causes of grievance or dispute; the parties
to the grievances or dispute shall thereupon submit to said board, in
writing, succinctly, clearly and in detail, their grievances and complaints,
and the cause or causes thereof, and severally agree, in writing, to submit
to the decision of said board as‘ to matters so submitted, and a promise or
agreement to continue on in business or at work, without a lock-out or

strike until the decision of said board, provided it shall be rendered within
ten days after the completion of the investigation; the board shall there
upon proceed to fully investigate and inquire into the matters in contro
versy, and to take testimony under oath in relation thereto, and shall have
power by its chairman or clerk, to administer oaths, to issue subpoenas for
the attendance of witnesses, the production of books and papers, to the
same extent as such power is possessed by courts of record or the judges
thereof, in this state.

|[30. SEC. 9. That after the matter has been fully heard, the said board,
or a majority of its members, shall within ten days render a decision
thereon in writing, signed by them or a majority of them, stating such
details as will clearly show the nature of the decision and the points dis
posed of by them; the decision shall be in triplicate, one copy of which
shall be ﬁled by the clerk of the board in the clerk’s oﬂice of the county
where the controversy arose, and one copy shall be served on each of the
parties to the controversy.

Board to decide
in ten days.

:31. SEC. 10. That whenever a strike or lock-out shall occur, or is seri

To eﬂect amicable
settlements in
cases of lock-outs,
Ate.

ously threatened in any part of the state, and shall come to the knowledge
of the board, it shall be its duty, and it is hereby directed to proceed, as
soon as practicable, to the locality of such strike or lock-out and put them
selves in communication with the parties to the controversy, and endeavor
by mediation to effect an amicable settlement of such controversy; and if
in their judgment it is deemed best, to inquire into the cause or causes of
the controversy, and to that end the board is hereby authorized to subpoena
witnesses, compel their attendance, and send for persons and papers, in
like manner and with the same powers as it is authorized to do by section
eight of this act.
32. S1-:0. ll. That the fees of witnesses of aforesaid state board shall be

Witnesses‘ fees.

ﬁfty cents for each day’s attendance, and four cents per mile traveled by

the nearest route in getting to or returning from the place where attendance
is required by the board ; all subpmnas shall be signed by the secretary of
the board and may be served by any person of full age authorized by the
board to serve the same.
33. SEC. 12. That said board shall annually report to the legislature,
and shall include in their report such statements, facts and explanations
as will disclose the actual working of the board, and such suggestions with
regard to legislation as may seem to them conducive to harmonizing the

Subpoenas, how
signed and served.

Board to report
annually to the
legislature.

76

ARBOR DAY.
relations of, and disputes between employers and employes and the
improvement of the present system of production by labor.

Compensation of
arbitrators and
secretary.

34. SEC. 13. That each arbitrator of the state board and the secretary
thereof shall receive ten dollars for each and every day actually employed

in the performance of their duties herein and actual expenses incurred,
including such rates of mileage as are now provided by law, payable by the
state treasurer on duly-approved vouchers.
Meaning of terms
used.

35. Sec. 14. That whenever the term “employer' 7 or “employers” is

used in this act. it shall be held to include “ﬁrm,” “joint stock associa»
tion," “company,” “ corporation," or “individual

and

individuals”

as

fully as if each of said terms was expressed in each place.

A supplement to an act entitled “ An act to provide for the amicable
adjustment of grievances and disputes that may arise between em
ployers and employee, and to authorize the creation of a state board
of arbitration," approved March twenty-fourth, one thousand eight
hundred and ninety-two, and to end the term of oﬂice of any person
or persons appointed under this act.

P. L. mos, p. ass.
Persons who shall
constitute board.

Salary.

Bow vacancies
shall be tilled.

Terms of present
members termi
nated.

Governor shall

Approved March 25, 1&6.

36. St-:0. l. That Samuel S. Sherwood, William M. Doughty, James
Martin, Charles A. Houston, Joseph L. Moore, be and they are hereby
constituted a board of arbitration, each to serve for the term of three years
from the approval of this supplement, and that each arbitrator herein
named shall receive an animal salary of twelve hundred dollars per an
num, in lieu of all fees, per diem compensation and mileage, and one of
said arbitrators shall be chosen by said arbitrators as the secretary of said
board, and he shall receive an additional compensation of two hundred
dollars per annum, the salaries herein stated to be payable out of monies
in the state treasury not otherwise appropriated.
37. Sec. 2. That in case of death, resignation or incapacity of any
member of the board, the governor shall appoint, by and with the advice
and consent of the senate, an arbitrator to ﬁll the unexpired term of such
arbitrator or arbitrators so dying, resigning or becoming incapacitated.

38. Sec. 3. That the terin of oilice of the arbitrators now acting asa
board of arbitrators, shall upon the passage of this supplement cease and
terminate, and the persons named in this supplement as the board of arbi
trators shall immediately succeed to and become vested with all the powers
and duties of the board of arbitrators now acting under the provisions of
the act of which this act is a supplement.

39. Sac. 4. That after the expiration of the terms of ofilce of the per

appoint successors

of new board.

sons nained in this supplement, the governor shall appoint. by and with
the advice and consent of the senate. their successors for the length of term
and at the salary named in the ﬁrst section of this supplement.

Arbor Day.
l. Govemor to issue proclamation setting iipnrl n day in April.

3. Exercises to be introduced in schools.

2. State superintendent to prepare circniam.

Joint resolution relative to the planting of forest trees.
P. L. 1884. D. 349.
Governor to issue
proclamation.

Approved February 21, 1884.

1. That the governor be and he is hereby authorized to issue a procla

mation annually, setting apart a day in April i'or the planting of forest
trees and recommending that the day be devoted by the people to that
purpose.
'

98

AT'l‘ACll.\lE.\iT.

I.

When and against whom issued.

An act for the relief of creditors against absconding and
absent debtors.

R. S. 48.
P. L. 1852, p. 6'2.
" 1854, p. 331.

Revision—Approved March 27, 1874.

“

1859, 1). 6-i0.

1.. That ii' any creditor shall make oath or affirmatioit (ct) that he verily

“

1862, p. 19-i.

believes that his debtor (Ii) abscoiids t'roin his creditors, atid is not, to his

“

1866, p. 770.

“

1867. p. 911.

"
“

1869, p. 33.
1871, p. 22.

kiiowled_<___{e or belief, i'esideiit iii this state (0) at the time, then it shall be
the duty of the clerk of the supreme court, or of any circuit court ((1) or
court of common pleas, to issue a writ of attachment, to be directed to the

“

1873, p. 164.

Attachment
against t-t.bSO0Dd
ing debtors.
Amended.

sheriti' or coroner, as the case may require, coiiitnaiidiiig him to attach the

rights and credits, (e) tiioiie_vs and eiiects, (51) goods and cliatt-els, (Ii) lands
atid tenements (2') ofsuch debtor, wiieresoever they may be found; whicli
oath or affirmat-ion shall, prior to the sealing of the said writ, be delivered
to the said clerk, to be by him ﬁled iii his oilice.

A gent may

make oathf

Attachment
against non-resi

2. 'l‘liat if the said creditor be absent or reside otit of this state, then his
agent or attorney (if) may make oath or aiiirinatioii to the above eifect,
and deliver the saute to the said clerk to be ﬁled, who shall thereupon
isstie such writ of att-aclinient. (1)
3. .-iml U.‘/I€I‘P(lS, Debtors who reside otit of this state may have property
suiiicient within the saute to pay their debts, or some part thereof; be it

dent debtors.

I/tere_f'0re emu-led, that the rights and credits. iiioiie_\_'s and eii'ec-ts, goods and
chattels, lands and tenements, ofever_v debtor who iiia_v reside out of this
state, shall be liable to- be attached, taken, proceeded against, sold,
assigned, traiisf'ei'red, and cofiveyed for the paynient oi’ his debts, iii the
(n) The atiiditvlt is not COllClll.°~‘iVP,t-llld the attachment will be
iiitshed i|‘li appear that the defeiidiuit was in the tiiiie it resi
( Qtit of this stale. (‘i/u Rank \'. Mm": til, l (Jr. 13!. Bimtvnt \'.
S/iillll l HI‘. L’-‘)0. ]i':|mlll‘t(I ads. ./Fl I10)/t),i§'p¢n. 3'13. ('I'tr/t
mist. Lilrfnti, 2 Dutch ‘J07. Phlllipsburg Bank \'. .lAH‘It'nl(*(t||nrl
Rﬂi/l‘tNlll (‘0., 3 Ditfrli. Llld. Lmimns \'. Boon. 1+ n ‘T37. But see
Ilhlkn‘ v. .lmIn-.w~_ 3 I/tn‘. ‘Z17. A writ ot‘ attachment, lin
proviili-iiil_v issued. niitv he .~.et asiih» on application of a judg
iiieiit ei't-ilitorot‘tlie defendttiit in tiitacliiiieiit. Nttltomil Impr
Irrir (ii. \'. li'm-H/.25 Vr. 29. The atiid-.tvit oi‘ defendaiit as to
resideiiee is not .\tiillClt‘lli. to siistain B. motion to qllihli, btit a
rfile ii) Hil\t\\' (.‘1itl~‘e iii;t_\' be tibtztilietl oil it. Sliiiilrlirrk V. .’iIm"ith,I

Z4/-. til.

.\llllO’li{il the proi-eetliiigs may be irre;,'iilartlie_veaii

not
lI\li)|'.t(‘llB41
I)/eh!
v. J*’nm".2 \'.
tar..B:(m!m{/
01.. I43.
"H11be
1' \'.
iiiullinf/. collatt-rally.
3 ('. E. Hr. -iii.
llrunhitghrim

Imin, 1 Bun. I61. lnstifileietit affidavit not subject of amend
ment by suppleniental proof. C'm-In! v. ('mhiI.'.’l VI‘ 363. The
niakiiig of an aiiidavit by a vender oi‘ goods and issuance of
writ thereon constitute a. waiver oi‘ right to reclaim tiie prop
erty. and art: aiiirinance of the sale. ]lvllr"r\'. Ellioll, 16 i'r.
564. No one but a creditor for it debt of a deﬁnite amount,
and having it right to niaiiitttin an action at law for his debt, can
acquire the'lieii given by act. (‘or-In v. i'onu'y. l8 Rn. i0. 7'3.

(1.) .-\ii attat-liiiieiitt-int only issue foracanseofaeiioii ionnded
on contract. Jt[fer_i/ v. ii'ooIey. 5 Hot. i'.‘..'l. limqrlv. King, 7 Vr.
13l. Ur a ﬁxed and certain sum, whether it accrued by cove

nant iii a deed or bond, note or slinple contract. Bl|!'Il')‘ \-_
1.’/.1» wit, 3 tn‘. I7. Ifiii covenant, it iiiiist appear by the aiiidie
vit that the suin is ﬁxed. Jq1'rri;v. ii'ootry.51{uI. 1'23. And
not i'ofn. eniiliy. Brown ads. II-"ti/, 1 Jlor. 137. Nor for tin
liqitldaiet tlaiiiitges. l)i'ckr-'rxoit v. .5'ini1ns, (‘mP,199. Not fora.
penalty to secure unliqiiidated damages. C'Iuml~-I.~ v. Mm xh. I
Zub. -I63. The ttdidavit. must state that defendant is indebted to
the plaintifff. Frishy v. ll'ilh'amson, 1 Hm-. til. The canseof

jlui‘. 305. Surplus money ‘ii sheriff's liaiidsaftera r()|'0(‘l('.ISi‘ll'9.
Hill \'. lirmh, I Hum. 32. Bee Jirimlmi//mni v. Bimtlmulumt. 1
Brow. it'll. The nature 0i'the property attached lllti\l be set out ;
the words " rights and credits" are not specific eiiou;;li. Neal
v. ('ooIt..'» Ilol. (‘.57 'l‘lie liability oil an oillcer for neizligence
does not create a right or credit liable to be seized. Lumrmm
\' Jllilfulllll, l [lath I1, 6,3,
tn) .\ioiiey in tiefeiidaiifs possessitiit inay he attttched. (‘Hint
v. Frwv, t 1Iui..'tti-S. But not it‘ the nioiiey he in the i~hei-iiT's
hands altliouuh lielongiiii,- to the defeiitlaiit. 1!». See (.'URUH‘.’7‘
\-_ (,'t)||I)"(Y' 2 Hm. l.\7. The \',\(‘(‘Ulltill \\ ill not be atiectetl, nor
the lﬂlg Qfiho ])ll|'1'|];\'4(‘I'lll a .~ln_-rill ‘s i~.ile iiiipaired by attach
iiiiz money in ileleiid.iiit's li;ind~i after the levy anti betore the
sfile. Nnntnoin v. l'nmhgi._//_ .\'.1tr.55. An lieir'.-1 share oi the
proceeds of an executor‘s sale oi‘ real e~i.ite
_E'I,!l .1 \'. [Inn Ir
I H4113. F-0. But not the liti.~b.iii-l'~i liitert-st in his \\'|te's ])t‘l"~()ll3i
propert)'.lfI the e.ttectitor'siiaiiils. Lozwr \'. I'm: i§'mm,2 Hr.
I'll. 32'»
\\’iiges ina_v he attiielieti. Ll0|l(Il‘li v. I.mrimr-r, 3 Yr.
355, 15‘;-9 I): hrnwir, I,nr1.uiru/mil ﬂnrl il'vs!vru R. R. ('0. \'. Dil
lon, 7 i'r. ."ihl. Money due on it jutl-_3n'ieiit ciiiitiot he attached.
.S'Imm v. Zu:t1i1r)'uutn,3 Ztth. l-30. .\ione_\'s in the hands oi‘ a

sheriff‘. raised by him iii |tlii'Sll3il(‘8 oi‘ a decree oi‘ the court oi’
chaiicery. are liable to attacliiiieiit
('~~~ivi' v. .Rttr'I-'mun,6
S/rm. 303
()1) Goods HI hrnmm may he attached. .'iIrn"ull \'. Rm-klry,

Rpni. 667. isev-Ql'..*. shares oi‘ stock in an incorporated com
pany cannot be attached ifihe certiﬁcate has been delivered or
the pilnck [|'3ii<i1‘|'rt.’il on the books of the coir-paiiy before the
ttiiaclinieiit issued.
Sm/r. limit v. il'ui'r~i Foumlry (.‘o.. 3

1'.-. 439.

see liiowhrny Bonk v. Jilt'l'§ru!h. 1! Butt 21\\'liere

action must be such as to entitle pialiiiiill as of course, to re

the retiiriishowstli.it the .~liai"es of stock attached stand in
the name oi‘tliedel'etidant's wife and that of it ihiri person.
the court will not. on inotioii. set aside the atiacliiiieiit, wliere
it is alleged that the transfer was ftaiidfileiit
(fur Irv v. .s'nuvi',
7 Vr .‘i0t.

quire special bail. Jr-[Tn-_i1 v. ll'onlI!/. 5 Hui. I23. 1i’t-1/tiv. Ii'n.;:,
7 V‘. 134. S436 .PiIIlingri't.i.t‘l‘-1. Hm l'.'inbu|'yh, I 110). -i-37. "'(t/I-51’
v.Aiulri-ii-on,3Har.220. The atihliivit need not set out the
cause Of action. Din; V. Brnm/I, 3 Httr. 2‘37.
Sh(uhlin*l.* V.
Jﬂu-.~ih, I Zlih. ~iIt~i. Bttt in case tifsufficieiit doubt the court iiiny
require plaintifff to deliver a statentetit,or it co|i\' of the iii
strtiment upon which the writ has been issued. 1!». bee Jilli
nedy v. (Jhuntar, 2 Ditfch. 30-3.

had entered into the pos~:es~ion oi‘ ii1tlfl‘4.lllfi)' be attached. li'il
lirlms V. Jlor/itnm, 8 Smelt‘ 5'10. Bill MW) Rt»;/ll \'. Ii'm{I.7 1'1‘. I35.
The interest oftt veiidee who, nnd--r :t pawl ZlL'l"‘(‘lllt'lll.Pnl€I‘P(l
‘n[o[hQl)t)\\t_1§\it)l] ol'ltintls.iiiid, ‘)\'iUYP the iitiachnietit issued,
entered into a written agn-eriient for the ~-.de of:~aitl lauds. can
not be atttu.-lied. Hui-r v. Ill//, t §'/or-1:. '.’lt)
liiisbaiid's interest
in his wife‘:-i lands sold by coiiiiiii~~'lom-rs tinder proceerliiigs in

(rt) “ Not resident in this state" means that the debtor is not
actually present in person within the state.

I10]/u, b',M'Il. 3'18.

Hrumlrrd v. In‘!

But mere presence in the state is not a resi

dence. Pcrriiic ads. Evans,6i'r. 2'11. The actualdoiiiicii of the
wife cannot he considered the legal I'8'~ltlL’l]C\f of the husband.

Jfv-Plierson v. ]Iou.sel,2 Br:u¢.&‘5.

An attacliiiieiit will not lie

(1) Theinterest of avendee, who tinder a written contract

ptirtition, caiiiiot be attnclied

(Mm. nr v 1“."I~*¢ti‘tIv. 3 -\'/or/_.. 74.

is.-Q _lIit!lfr u_f.s‘muh Lt;ipnu'riII. 3 Jlol. 8%. The proceeds oi sale
ofa house and lot, “ which the tivbitii‘ held iii trust iorli‘i~i wife. '
was ii.-id to he the property oi‘ the husbatitl. the defeiidant.
)'ur:lIv_i/ V. Yttrtf/I 1/. 3 l'r. ‘ll-'1.

(ls) An affidavit by an act-tit. Ftatiiic that he is such aizent. is

against one who, with his family and goods, is about to go out of
the state. Ifttyler v, Slirriv-, 4 Dulrh. 129. See Br/iimll V. Dunn,
~i Dutch. 153. That defeiidaiit absents liiniself. is bad. (‘omod
V. (‘onto-(I, 2 Hur. 1-Si. Or that he abscoiids. ('1 orull v. }{~/rh

ﬁllillClPili. .1101‘! (U V. FF"! tH"- R/"H. lift) -"~13 1'7"/'V HUS. li'al
It(tnI.'iU'H,] Ilur. 62. An ﬂiliti:i\'ill1i‘<itlel)_V the atioriiey oi‘ it cor
]it)t':1tlOl‘l is .\ililit‘it?Iil. '11:"/I/In]. Bunk \'. }lllIV‘)'\’lrl\, 6 III!/. IT!

tii,//-tt. 7 Hui. Si. it must also state that he is not resident.

2 .\!¢-(‘in-I. -l'.‘.

Jh.

$913 ,\'{¢(y,;ihI;u[ (,7) \'_ Blifilu in, ‘,7, 1")‘, 4“),

)'!Jlll|y?¢lIrﬁli V. -\"'IIl'lIIl}|,

Atiitiavit by attorney. wltlioiit hlaiinig that the

.iilorrrl V. Btu.-l.In/,

{t]i])li(‘;i|1[ is rib~eiit, is irrei.:iilar, no! 1»/ml. and t'.iii only he

Spen_ 667, Brown v, Bissv I!,l Zn!/. 46. Ifil Creditor causes the
goods ofhis debtor to he seized by virtue of a writ oi‘ ait:ieli

a\.Uiti(-1] by (li|‘Q_-*(‘l |ii'(ii"i?Gtlilli1§. li'r\i!cnII \' S‘lt(|i'p,_'l| l'i'. 391.
(I) A second iitiiieliiiieiit tit the suit oi‘ other lain_ilt'l‘~i and for
another cause of action, may issue while the i ist is penrliniz.
I>’tou'n V. Bts.vII,'l Ztl/1.46
])uﬂ;/ V. ii'ulf. I Z/lb. 476. P-tit liili.

(rl) The circuit courts iiavejiirisdiction.

mQm_ is-~.ued otit of a court which has no jiirisdiction, he be

COll1t'$B.lFt!8P(t°tQ,Qr no initio.

Mfiiltldrrt v. li'h.!nn/, 22 Vr 391.

(ri The equity ofredeinption in chattels that have been niort

gui.,'ed, iiiay be attached.

Long Dork Co. V Jfrtlh I'll, 1 Rmi. 9~i.

And a debt due defendant on negotiable paperhefore maturity.

Brian! v. Raul, l Mc(.'m-l. 272. And proceeds of execution in ll.
constable‘: hands. Davis v. Mahcmy, 9 Vi". Crane V.F16cSc, 1

between the same parties.
Jlurris v. Lninmtl. -1 Hill 5*! _ A
cnpm.-i and an attachnieiit for the same cause of action and oe
tween the sanie parties, cannot be issued }'i.~ilier v. Ii-'tt.thtiig
ton Bank, 2 Gr. 391.

ATTACHMENT.

99

like manner, as nearly as may be, as the rights and credits, monies and
eilects, goods and chattels, lands and tenements of other debtors are made
liable by this act ; provided, that instead of the oath or aﬁlrmation herein
before mentioned, the applicant for such writ of attachment, or his agent,
if said applicant be absent, shall, before the sealing thereof, make oath or
aﬂirmation (which shall be ﬁled in the oﬁiee of the clerk of the court out
of which the same shall be issued), that the person against whose estate
such attachment is to be issued is not, to his knowledge or belief,
resident (rt) at that time in this state, and that he owes to the plaintifff
a certain sum of money, specifying, as nearly, as he can, the amount of
the debt or balance.
4. That if any clerk shall seal such writ of attachment, before such
oath or aﬂlrmation shall be delivered to him, he shall forfeit and pay
twenty dollars to the party injured, to be recovered, with costs, by action
of debt, in any court of record of this state having cognizance of that
sum. (b)
5. That it shall be the duty of the clerk who shall issue or seal any
writ of attachment under or by virtue of this act, forthwith to enter in a
book, to be by him provided and kept i'or that purpose, the names of the
plaintifff and defendant in the said writ, the sum or amount therein
speciﬁed, and the time oi’ issuing or sealing the same; to which book
every person desiring to inspect the same, shall have access at all proper

Penalty it writ
issue without
ailldlivlt.

Clerk's entry.

seasons. (c)

6. That where two or more are jointly bound or indebted, either as
joint obligors, partners, or otherwise, the writ of attachment may be issued
against the separate or joint estate, or both, of such joint debtors, or any
of them, (cl) either by his or their proper name or names, or by the name
or style of the partnership, or by whatever other name or names such
joint debtors shall be generally known and distinguished in this state, or
against the heirs, executors or administrators of them or any of them;
and the estate so attached, whether it be separate or joint, shalt be liable
to be sold or assigned for the payment of such joint debt. (e)
7. That the writ of attachment may be issued against any a-bsconding
or absent female, (g) or against any corporation or body politic not created

Jolnt debtors
andipsrtners.

Females and
corporations.

or recognized by the laws of this state, (Ii) in all cases in which such writ

may lawfully issue against an_ absconding or absent male.
8. That the writ of attachment may he issued against the heir or devisee
of any deceased debtor, in all cases in which the writ might lawfully have
been issued against such debtor in his lifetime; (i) and all lands, tene

Heirs and
deviseas.

ments, hereditaments and real estate, descended from or devised by such

deceased debtor to the heir or devisee against whom the attachment is
issued, may be attached and takeil by virtue of the said writ.
9. That any legacy or distributive share (Iv) of an estate in the hands of
the executor or administrator, may be attached and taken by virtue of an
.(a) If the residence of the debtor is here. although his husi
nr-sq may be carried on in another state, attachment will not
lie.

l.'iIv/ Bank v. 3{e'rrlI.l Gr. i3i.

Brmulird ads. Del Hoyo

Sum. 32$. Ctmurd v. Cbnurd, 2 Hm: 1.58. J/mum-d v. Qoul,
Vr. 370. 0verruied,s Vr. 49¢. Although dellrlltlﬂiil may have
removed temporarily to another state.

Gm-I: nds. Lik¢n:,2

Ilulrll. ‘:07. See Gulimlmur v. Howru, 3 Har. 138. (bo
v.
ll'1IuJ)'IllI’l 8 mun. O. Li 548. If the residence is a rod
aithnu-uh deblorcarrles on business in this stale. foreign attach

Legacies, &c.

See Benedict v. Bmedirl, 2 Mrctii-l. I59. Judgment must be
rendered against all. Brlnhl v. Huml, l Hm-. 273. A creditor
ofone part ner can attach such partners interest in the partner

ship property. HI" v. Bmrli, Bmv 31 But such attachment
is made subject to partnership debts. Brown v. lmsell l Zulu.
46. In proceeding against one oi’se\'ernl Jﬂiill debtors. t e non
residence uf the olherjniut debtors must nﬂirmatlveiy appeal‘
in aﬂidavit procuring writ. Cbrlnl v. Cbrbll, 21 Vr. 863.
(Q) (.bmu:lly.V. Lerchr, 27 Vt . 99.

(nl An attachment may issue against a female debtor. Davis

ment w-ii lie. .Pl'1"rlne ads. Eivim, 6 Vr. ‘Ill. See Slule, Potter
v. Iron, 3 Zn). 517. So. for it debt of file wife contracted bei'0l‘9
her marriage, where the wife lives in this, and the husband in

v. .‘llu!un|.V- 9 Vr.

another state. Jluckzllslolvrt Bank v. Mtlrhell, 4 Dutch. M6.
Bi-cause service on the wife away Rom the husband's residence

erly Ill thisstaieaud transacting business here under leg slative
authority. Plllllr/i.tbm'{; Hunk V. 1.nrknu.~unmt R. R. GM, 8

is bad. 1i!cPhe1"rou v. Hou.|el,2Bm4. 35. Even if the right to
ix‘ affected is vested in her. Hus v. (hie, 3 Zub. lid. A resi
dence or place ofnbode in this state oftemporaryorpermaneni.
character, at which n summons might. iawlhliy be served, is
the condition on which process oi’ attachmentcaunot beissued.
[}ulllll'i7l v. Pkwy. 1-I Vr. 495.
(0) The law will intend that the writwss sealed and issued
lﬂer the lﬁidnvil ﬂied, until the contrary appears. Moi-rel v.

Dutch. Z08. See Slulc v. Delltuxtre, Luckuunmut and Western
R. R. (b.,! Vr. -173.
(1) But not against the executors of such debtor. Hui/ml v.

Burk!!!/, Span. 6&7.

(pl The rovislons of this section are merei directory and it
suhntnnti com liance with them will besu cient. 1'homp.:ou
v. Eutlburn, I I ma i00. Jlorwl v. Buckley, Spelt. 667. Jtmtu v.
Van Horn. l0 Vr. Z61.
(<1) It will not lie ll‘ any of the partners reside in this stale.
Coulis V. Ilotlmgslteud, 2 Gr. 40.’. Um-Im' v. Robeson, 8 Gr. i1.

(It) it will notiiesgaiusta foreign corporation uwnin

prop

BergI|,8 Gr. I83. Atiidavit -‘that the estate of A B is uol. resi
dentin this state, and that he owes," <tc., will not authorize the

issuance oi‘ a writ oi’ attachment.

Muller v. Lud.t.23 Vr. 366.

(Ir) it will lie. where executors are authorized iu sell lauds
and divide the proceeds, for n child's share. E_I/Iierl v. Hawk, I

Boar. 80.

But a debt due tofile leslator from such child would

be paramount. Sunlli v Smith, 2 Benz. I6-i.

Will-re n husband‘:-1

interest in his will-‘s share was attached in the executors hands,
and B .!Cit‘(flll'l1lll$Sli€(l against them as gttrnlshees. held they

wereentitled toahiii oi‘ iuterpiender in equity. Lnzlcr v. Van
Slum, 2 Gr. Ch. 325.

ATTACHMENT.

100

Property in two
counties.

Non-resident
creditors.
Property exempt.
Act March 27, 1866,
P. L. p. 770.

attachment issued in pursuance of this act against the legatee or next
of kin.
10. That in cases where the lands, tenements, hereditaments or real
estate, or the goods and chattels, rights and credits, monies and etfects, of
any absconding or absent debtor or debtors, shall be situate or found in
two or more counties in this state, it shall be lawful to issue a writ of
attachment out of the supreme court into each county in which such real
and personal property shall be situate or found; in which case the auditor
to he appointed as hereinafter mentioned shall have the same power and
authority over the said real and personal property of such absconding or
absent debtor or debtors in securing, selling and disposing thereof, as
though the same should be situate or found in one count-y only, and the
said auditor shall he governed as to the same, in all respects as is directed
in other cases by this act.

11. That any creditor residing out of this state shall be entitled to all
the rivileges and beneﬁts of this act. (a)
1 . That the personal property ofa non-resident of this state, being in
this state, shall not be liable to attachment at the suit ofa non-resident

creditor, when the said property is exempt by law of the state of which
the said debtor and creditor are residents. (b)
Writs retuniable
in vacation, and
in thirty days.
Act March 9, 185-i,

P. L. p. 381.
Creditors admit
ted by rule.

lb.

13. That writs of attachment may be made returnable in vacation, and
all writs of attachment hereafter issued shall bemade returnable within
thirty days from the time of ﬁling the aﬂldavit upon which such writ of
attachment may be issued.
14. That it shall be lawful for any creditor or creditors of any defendant
in attachment, upon ﬁling with the clerk an aﬂldavit that the defendant or
defcndants in attachment owes unto him or them a certain sum, to be
therein speciﬁed, which affidavit shall be made by such creditor or his
agent, to enter at any time a rule in the minutes of the cotirt out of which
a writ ofattachnieiit may have been issued, admitting such creditor or
creditors as creditor or creditors under such attachment, and which said
rule shall have the same force and effect as though

the same

had been

entered in open cotirt. (0)
II. The effect of the writ and the mode of its execution.
liow writ
executed.

15. That the said writ of attachment shall be executed in the following
manner, that is to say: the oﬁicer to whom it is directed shall go to the
house or lands of the defendant, or to the person or house of the person
in whose custody or possession the defendant’s property and estate may
be, and then and there declare, in the presence of one credible person at
the least, that he attaches the rights and credits, monies and effects, goods
and chattels, lands and tenements, of such defendant. at the suit of the

plaintifff in the said writ named. (d)
Inventory and
appralsement.

16. That the said oﬁlcer shall, with the assistance of one discreet and
impartial freeholder. make a just and true inventory and appraisement (e)

(a) An aﬂldavit that pialiiiiﬂlillve out oftliestnteissiiflicieiit.
pi-nmi/urir. to show that they are non-resident creditors, but
the contrary nniy he siinwn by amdavii. on a motion to quash

the writ. lilorrrl v. I-‘mi-my/, Spot. 670
(II) Applies only lo penionnl property. as goods and clitfilels.
:1)" not to rights and Credits, as wages. IAOIIUIII V. Luwrmrr.
l'r. 355

(r) A creditorapplyiiilz is not bound to file his clalni when he
applies ; ifhedoc-s fileaclniui. he is not iIn~reii_v restrict:-d iroin
provin beyond the amount speciﬁed. Huimru v. ism://i.i Z111».
495. l the antlltnrs report at the third ieriu, and their report la
rt-|'<\ri1-d back to iheni for correction. n creditor may apply at
any time before their ﬁnal I't'|)0l'l is uiade.
wont, 5 "II/. 1.

Taylor v.

Wood

(iii This section, so far as relates to the formal execution of
the writ. is dirt-ctor_\'. Tiimlnwm v. §‘I|'Ir.I. 4 Dulrh. ‘L04. A
sheriﬂ iuny PX\'C\.ll\' the writ by .<|wCini deputy. Mono! v. Hut 1!
H17 .S',ini.nT;l. A siihsinntinlcoinpliaiice in regard to the ser~
\'it'c of the \\'rit is snilicn-iii. Tlioiiipsuii v Eu.\I!mm_l Hnr. ltil.
\\'hnn the slieriil‘ niiiiclies land. he niust go to the owner, or
such other p9l’Sllll as iiiu_\' he in ])0R!i!§$ll)II. iiiid there make ilie
aitat-iinn>iii : and lfiin-re is no one in [‘M)ls‘N('.\!4l0ll. then he must

go to the premises and there execute the writ : and if there are
several tracts oflaiid iyingiu different places. lie must do the

snnie in regard to each. in attaching personal property he
must seize it and take it luio pouessiou; and u attaching

rights and credits. he inust go to the ganilshee and give lnm

notice of the attachment

Tvmlinxlul \'. Shh <, 5 Dnlrh. 426,

ll

the sheriﬂ return tlint lie has attached "properly." instead of
" goods and chattels." ll will b9.‘4i.lﬂl(‘|Elll, ll‘ otii--i-wise ('0rr(~t"l

Jilrnnl v. Rm-It'l:_u. Spm 64-7.

The lien only lllHll‘|l9$ to prop

Pl'l_\’ levied Ull. Ih. Mil/rrv Dun_uun,7 I’: 2|. .\‘<~e:<4=cilo|il‘i.
'I‘lit-i-lit-rill’ tiiny seize the goods of the d9|)l(ll',Bli|l0ll|:ll llIt*}'
inay be oi‘ leem vaiiiellian Q_'oo,and retain them until lln- ap
iraisr-nieiit and inventory are nnuie. and the defetuinnt, or in
ins l\l7\i'Ili‘t', the head oi‘ the fl!lllii_\’, iiinkes the N'|I*(‘i|tili oi‘
goods t-lniint-d to beexempled. Hmiml \' Dmin,5 llillrh. 4.13.
ill All the |i|upert_v, rights mid credits attached niusl he Ill
veiitoried and appraised.
1iimlm.~oii v Slilen. 4 Dulrh. 201, 5
Dlllrll 426. ll'lhe sheriff certify that lie has dtii_\' served I||P
writ and returns lherewltiinn lu\'entor_v and nppmisenit-ni_ it
i~ n good service. Rm/d v. Km”. 7 I7. Hi.
A reiurii,thlt "h_\

virtue nfilie writ ofnttncliiiieni. he attached a ceriniti deiit diu
tnihesaid A, In tlw hands nf said B, appraised at $5tlti."i-4 a
valid return.
ﬁnlmr v. Stun-, 8210. 236 Sceﬂioil v. Fnhl. I
S/ork. 42. Court niay permit return lobe amended in certain
cases. Pi'>I'1|s\-:I Nulioiial Bmik v. Snvtii, I6 N. J. Lulu Journal

M5. An inventory wnnldbe-defective if it simply stated that
the sheriﬂ‘ had attached " rights and credits." The nature or
kind oi‘ property atun.-l.ied niust he speciﬁed. Nwi v (bot, 5
Hal. $37.

ATTACHMENT.

101

of all the property and estate of the defendant, so by him attached, and
such inventory and appraisement, dated and signed by himself and the
said freeholder (a) shall annex to and return with the said writ; and the
said oﬂicer shall indorse on the said writ the true time of executing the
same, and sign his name thereto.

17. That the said writ shall bind the rights and credits, monies and
effects, goods and chattels, of the defendant, so as aforesaid attached,
from the time of executing the same. (b)

18. That it shall not be lawful for any person, against whom any attach
ment shall issue, after issuing the same, to give, grant, bargain, sell, alien,
or in anywise convey any lands, tenements, hereditaments, or real estate,
lying in any county into which such writ shall have been issued, or any
interest therein, of which he may be seized, possessed of, or entitled unto,
at the time oi‘ issuing such writ; which said writ shall, immediately on
the issuing thereof, become and remain a lien on the said lands, tene
ments, hereditaments and real estate, (c) as against the defendant, and all
persons claiming from or under him,by virtue of any such conveyance,
until the plaintifff and such of the creditors of the defendant as shall
apply under the attachment shall be satisﬁed their just debts, or until
judgment shall be rendered against the plaintifff and creditors under the
attachment, or the said attachment be discontinued; and all conveyances
made by the defendant, pending the said attachment, shall be void against
the plaintifff in attachment, and the creditors that shall become parties
thereto. ((1)

19. That if for any cause the officer to whom such writ is directed shall
fail, neglect, or refuse to attach, under said writ, any lands of the defend

ant in his county,or if the defendant shall become seized or entitled to
any lands in such county after the return of such writ, and before ﬁnal
judgment shall be entered in the suit, such writ shall be a lien thereon
from the time of issuing the same, or from the time when the defendant
becomes seized or entitled to such lands, as the case may be; and the
court whence such writ shall issue, or a judge or justice thereof at cham
bers, may order the clerk to amend the return to such writ, by annexing
thereto a short description of such lands, and may make all necessary
rules and orders for the disposal and sale of such lands, as if the same had
been attached by the proper officer under said writ.

20. That the word lands in this act shall be construed to include tene

Writ when exe
cuted alien on
goods, &c.
Writ when issued
B lien on land.

Amended.

Writ a lien on
lands although
not levied.
i’. L. 1869, p. B8.

Meaning of the

word " lands."
Ib.

ments, hereditaments, and real estate, and any interest therein. (e)

21. That the goods, chattels, and personal estate so attached shall
remain in the safe keeping and care of the said oﬂicer, in order to answer
and abide the judgment of the court, unless the garnishee, after inventory
and appraisernent thereof, shall enter into bond to such oﬂicer, with two
sureties, being freeholders in the county, in double the sum at which they
were appraised, with condition that the said goods, chattels, and personal
(0) Judgment in attachment was reversed because thein
ventory was not signed by the freeholder. Youman v. Byron,

Hut. Din. 93.
(0) An attachment sirpenedesajudgment on n bond and war

rant entered after the attachment was levied, although the bond

Goods to remain
in safe keeping
of oihcer.

satisﬂed out of the real estate attached only. Vrecland v. B1-uen,
lZab. 215. The lien on the real estate remains, aithon h a
pearance be entered and bond given. Anuny1nous,5 I at. .
Alller as to personal property.

Srhlzyln‘ v. -$'_|/lmster, -i Dutch.

Lummm v. Boon, Fen. '734. A

487. See section 37.
(0) The attachment law creates n lien upon the property

judgment regularly entered does not lose its priority h an
attachment Ix-Inlr afterwards levied on the irmds of defen ant,

attached, both real and personal, from the service of the attach
ment. Vrrrland v. Bruen, i Zab. 2i-i. Smiili v. Warden, 6 V1".

and the sheriﬁ may sell said lands upon uﬂ./u. issued niier the

346. The lien of the writ of attachment upon the defendant's
lands. as of the time the writ was issued, can be enforced only
by a sale and conveyance made b the auditor u n the judg

And warrant were given before.

lav‘ of the attachment.

Reeve‘: v. Johnson, 7 Hal. 29.

The lien

oft e attachment was held to be pammount ton Jud ment ob

tained after ihe attachment was issued, although the ud ment

ment in the attachment suit, in vi rlue of n specia order of the

creditor paid the claim of the piaintlifln attuchmentand

court for that purpose. Blah-Mord v. cbrmwr, 13 Slrir. 205.
(ti) An attaching creditor may file a bill in chancery to set

ued

exeauion and levied on defendant's lands be-fore any other
Cr!-ditornpplh-d. Uummlm v. Blair, 3 Har. 15!. The omission
to r1.-cord a deed within ﬁfteen days after it is executed does not
rend:-rit invalid against an attuchment creditor havln notice
then-of before the iudgrnent in attachment is obtain . Gur
nuvl v. Hdrwond. 4 Hal. 193. The lieu of the writ of attach
ment in-forvejudgmeut does not take priority over a previous
unregistered rnorignge.

Omnpwn v.

'lI!t, i Mt-(Yuri. Z50, 2 Mc

Onrr. 476. If.
ndlng an attachment against real and
property, ih<-1 efenriuni applies forand obtains his disc

rnonal
rge as

a bankrupt. then dimanives the attachment byfiving bond, ap
pearing and accepting a declaration, and to t pleads his dis

charge, his personal liability and personal property will he dis
charged, but n special judgment will begiven for piaintltf. to be

aside a fraudulent conveyance or judgment of defendant in
attachment. Hunt v. Field, 1 Slot-1:. 3“. Wlltiumx v. Mn-hrnor, 8
ﬂock. 520. Robert V. Hodges, I C. E. Gr. 300. Jllllvr v. .,(llI|I.\‘0'!l,

9 C’. E. G-r. 4i.

Ourru V. GU14-s 10 C. E. Gr. 103. Svmble he can

not do so at Law. aim-are v. Irma-,1, 1 Hal‘. ‘J68. 364- How far
nn innocent purchaser may be nﬂected, see D¢'p€_u.vfe‘r v. (mum,
2 Gr. C71. 47-i. John-son v. Garrett 1 C. 1'}. Hr. 3i. But if he have
knowledge the conveyance is vold. Miller v. Jnmlaon, 9 C’. E.
Ur. 4i. As to who are necemnry parties and what allegations

are essential in the bill, see Hunt v. Fuld, 1 Stock. 36.

ll lllnam

v. Micherror, 8 Stork. 521. Jllller v. Jamimn, 9 C. E. Gr. 41.
Smilh v. Mlllrhelzl, 7 Slur. 4. Oocka V. Varnry, 18 Slew. 72.

(e) See note (1), page 98.

ATTACHMENT.

102

Oﬂloer may break
open houses, &.c.

Right and prop
erty tried.

Claim ofproperty
must be made in
writing.

estate, or the full value thereof, to be estimated by such appraisement,
shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the said court. (a)
22. That to enable the said officer fully to execute such writ of
attachment, he is hereby authorized and required (having ﬁrst made
demand and being refused) to break open any house, chamber, room,
shop, door, chest, trunk, or other place or thing, where he shall be in
formed or have reason to believe any money, goods, books of account,
bonds, bills, notes, papers, or writings of the said defendant may be de
posited, secreted, had, or found.
23. That if the sheriﬁ‘ or other oﬂlcer(b) shall, by virtue of any writ of
attachment, issued in pursuance of this act, attach and take through
ignorance or want of proper information, any goods, chattels or effects,
which shall be claimed by any person as his property, it shall and may
be lawf'ul for such sheriff or oﬂlcer thereupon to summon and swear a jury
to inquire into and try the right and property thereof; and if the jury, on
such inquest, shall ﬁnd the right and property of such goods, chattels, or
effects to be in the claimant or in any other than the defendant in attach
ment, such shcrifl‘ or oﬁlccr shall forthwith deliver the said goods, chattels,
or effects to the person in whom the property is so found by the inquisi
tion, or to his agent or attorne_'; and in such case, such sheriff‘ or ofllcer
shall not be liable to any prosecution for having attached and taken the
said goods, chattels, or effects through ignorance or want of proper in
formation. (0)
24. That the sheriff or other officer serving any attachment shall not in
any case summon a jury to try the right and property of-any goods, chat
tels, or effects, seized or taken in attachment, unless the person claiming

Sheriff, |findcm
nifled, may reihse
to try right.

Proceedings on
such claim.

right and title thereto shall exhibit and deliver to such sheriff or officer
such claim in writing, specifying the articles and property claimed,
requesting a jury to be summoned to try the right, and agreeing to be
bound by and submit to the ﬁnding of such jury in the premises; provided
always, that the sheriff or other officer may, notwithstanding such claim,
if directed so to do, and sufficiently indemnified by the plaintifff in attach
ment for so doing, refuse to summon such jury; but the sheriff or oﬂicer
in such case may retain the goods, chattels and effects so attached, in his
hands, to answer and abide the judgment of the court.
25. That when upon such claim of right and title to the property
attached the sheriff or other ofllcer shall proceed to summon a jury, he
shall appoint the time and place of trial, and shall give notice thereof to
the plaintifff in attachment and to the claimant of the property, which

time shall not be less then ten days from the time such claim shall be put
in ; and the sheriff or other ofllcer shall have power to administer the usual
oath or afllrmation to the jurors and witnesses ; (d) and it shall be the duty

of the sheriff or oﬁicer bef'ore whom such inquest shall be taken, to keep a
correct minute of all the proceedings before him had in the premises, and

to ﬁle the same, together with the inquest found by the jury, and the
claim so as aforesaid put in to the property attached, in the oﬂice of the
clerk of the court out of which the writ of attachment issued, there to
Power to adjourn.

remain of record.
26. That the sheriff or other officer, upon reasonable cause shown by
either party, and upon such terms as he may judge proper, may adjourn
such trial and hearing from time to time, as occasion may require.

Process for
witnesses.

27. That the sheriff or other officer shall have power to issue subpoenas
under his hand and seal for such witnesses as either party may require;

(al The goods attached arein possession of thelaw. Auatln v.
Wad», Pm. P997. Mel:-ilk v. Hrown, 1 Har. 364.
Blair, 3 Har. 152.
And the lien remains for the

Ounlmlrm \'.

beneﬁt of‘ all
creditors who n pply before the rule for discontinuance is
actually entered. Slllful v. ll'anlm,6 Vr.840. Aiterdefendant
gives bond. the plaintifff and creditors can look to the bond
only.

V1-entamiv. Bruzn,l Zak. 2H.

The necessary expenses

of the sheriff ln mklmz care of the property attached are to be
assessed by the cnun and paid to him, above the ordinary cup

tion fees. Hcumzsx v. Smith, 1 Zab. 496.

But see Cnrm v.

Huulzer, 2 South. '-I96. .-iuom/mmu, Span. 112. If perishable,
as a horse and carriage, ihey may be sold by orrler ofihe court.
Arumymous, 3 Hm". ‘J5. See
'
R11: v Cronan, 18 Vr. 493.

(b) Means coroners or such oﬁlcers other than sherlﬂll to

whom it appertalns to execute process out oi’ the superior
cour:s. and does not include constables.

Stryker v. Skiunum, 2

Gr. 189. See Wrirtgarrlt v. Billings, 22 Vr. 354.
(1-) The oﬂleer cannot recover of the pla.l.nlii’i'ln attachment
the oosls of a suit brought against him for improperly executing

the writ. Curtis v. Hulaizer. 2 South. N96.
(d) Ii the sheriff reject lawful evidence, the Inquisition will be
set aside. Obart v. Lemon, 2 Hm‘. 78. Or if he admits illegal
evidence. Snowdv.-n v. Johmon, Pen. N69. The creditor_may
ﬂle a bill In chancery against the defendant to sci aside a
fraudulent conveyance. because the defendant cannot rompel
the creditor to try the right of property at law. (‘hr v. I)|mImm
4 Hal. Ch. 594. (Overruled in court ofnppeals for lnsuﬂlcient
allegations in the bill.) Dunham v. 002:, Z Slack. 437.

ATTACHMENT.

103

which subpoanas maybe served as subpoenas for witnesses in other cases
are required by law to be served; and the witnesses shall be entitled to
the same fees, and be subject to the same penalties as are provided by law
in causes depending in the supreme court.
28. That the jury to be summoned in pursuance of the twenty-third JurYand'~'erdi=l
section of this act, shall consist of twelve men qualiﬁed to be jurors in
other cases, all of whom must agree to the verdict, which shall be reduced

to writing, and signed by the jurors and the sheriff or oﬂicer before whom
the same shall be taken.
29. That in case the jury shall ﬁnd that none of the property claimed Wm" °'"'"1*""

by the person putting in a claim thereto, belongs to such claimant, then '°'”“'°°““'
such claimant shall pay the costs of such inquiry, which shall be taxed by
the sheriff or other oﬁicer holding such inquest, and on neglect or refusal
of such claimant to pay the same, it shall be lawful for the said sheriff or
ofﬁcer to issue his warrant therefore, to any constable of the county in
which such inquest shall have been held, commanding him to make the
amount of such costs,‘ and the costs of such warrant, and of executing the
same by a levy upon and sale of the goods and chattels of such claimant;
provided, that if the claimant reside out of the county in which such attach
ment was served, the sheriff or oiiicer may require him or them to give
security for costs before such sheriff or oﬂicer shall proceed to hold such
inquest as aforesaid.
30. That if the jury shall ﬁnd the property claimed, or any part thereof, When nlainmf
to belong to the claimant, then the costs of such inquiry shall be paid by ‘°P*‘-"°°““‘~
the plaintifff in attachment; and in case of his or their neglect or refusal to
pay such costs, the same may be recovered of him in the same manner as
is provided for the recovery of costs from the claimant in the last preceding
section; provided always, that the plaintifff in attachment, in case he has to Proviso.
pay such costs, shall be entitled to be repaid the same out of the estate of
the defendant in attachment, before any division or distribution shall be
made thereof to or among the creditors.

31. That the following fees shall be allowed and taxed for the scrvice\s F@@Sﬂ11°W@d
required by this act, on such trial of right and property, and no more, that
is to say :
To the sheriff for summoning a jury, one dollar;
For swearing the jury, twenty-ﬁve cents ;
For swearing each witness, ﬁve cents;
For drawing the inquest, one dollar;
For keeping a minute of the proceedings, ﬁfty cents;
For every subpoena issued by him, ten cents;
For a warrant for costs when actually issued, twenty-ﬁve cents ;
To the constable for executing the warrant, ﬁfty cents;
To the jurors each, twenty-ﬁve cents ;
To the clerk of the county for ﬁling the claim, sheriﬂ“s minutes, and

inquest, twenty-ﬁve cents; and for a copy thereof when required, at the
rate of eight cents a folio.

III. Appearance by defendant.
32. That if the defendant appear at any time before ﬁnal judgment, and Defendant may
accept of a declaration at the suit of every or any one of the said creditors, “PPW "em"

and enter into bond as directed in the next section of this act, then the ﬂnauudgmem
said writ of attachment, report, and all the proceedings thereon, shall, as

to the suit wherein such appearance is entered, be set aside,(a) and if
such appearance be entered to the suit of the plaintifff in attachment, then
the costs which shall have accrued on such attachment shall abide the
event of such suit. (b)
(u) An attachment is dissolved by entering hail to the action.
Dlckcnon v. ﬁlimnu, Lm-e 199. The ordinary rule with a clause
" savingIglljiens created by the statute," is suﬂicient. Anonymam, 5

60.

(b) All the creditors who have applied are entitled to costs
without regardjm the amount claimed. Rad v. L'h£g(lry, Spent.
616. Hanna: v. Smith, l Zab. 496.

ATTACHMENT.

104
Defendant appear
ing to give bond.

33. That if the defendant appear to any attachment, he shall enter
into bond with one or more sutiicient sureties, being resident in this state,
in case the attachment shall have been issued out of the supreme court,
and in case the attachment shall have been issued out of the circuit court
or court of common pleas, then in the county in which such court shall
be held ; which bond shall be approved oi‘ by the court, or a judge thereof,
and shall be given to the sheriff of the county, in case the attachment
shall issue out of any circuit court or court of common pleas, and to such
sheriff as the court or judge shall direct, in case the attachment shall issue
out of the supreme court; which bond the sheriff is hereby required to
take _in his own name_ in double the amount of the personal property
attached, conditioned for the return of the goods and chattels, rights and
credits, monies and effects, seized and taken by virtue of such writ of
attachment, in case judgment shall be rendered for the plaintifff; and said
sheriff shall, in case of a breach of such condition. on application of the

plaintifff or any
without fee or
prosecuted for
applied to the
this act. (fl)
On appearance by
defendant writ
may be set aside
in vacation.
Act March Z3, 1859,
P. L. p. 640.

Creditors must
consent to dis
continuance.

Goods released
and no other
creditors ad
mltted.

applying creditor of the said debtor, assign the said bond
reward to such person as the court shall direct, to be
the beneﬁt of the plaintifff and such creditors as shall have
court or auditors under such attachment, in conformity to

34. That a judge of the court out of which any attachment has
issued or may issue, may in term or vacation, upon ﬁve days‘ notice. to
the plaintifff, or to any creditor admitted by rule under such attachment,
or by the report of auditors on ﬁle, order the attachment and all proceed
ings therein to be set aside as against such plaintifff or creditor upon the
defendant entering his appearance at the suit of such plaintifff or creditor,
and in case any personal property, money or rights in action shall have
been attached upon the defendant entering into such bond with like surety,
to be approved by said judge. as is directed in the next preceding section
of this act, or upon the defendant entering into bond with like surety, and
approved by said judge, to such creditor or plaintifff, in double the sum
sworn to in the affidavit ﬁled by him, conditioned for the return of such
goods and chattels, rights and credits, monies and effects attached if
judgment be rendered for such obligee.
35. That the plaintifff in such attachment shall not be permitted to
discontinue the same, without the consent of, or satisfaction made to, each
of the said creditors who shall have applied to the court or auditors as
aforesaid. (b)
36. That when said attachment shall be set aside as against the plaintifff
and all creditors admitted by rule entered on afﬁdavit or by report of
auditors on ﬁle, all property attached, except real estate, shall be free from
the lien thereof, and no creditor shall be admitted under any attachment
after the same shall have been set aside as to the plaintiﬁ‘ therein.

37. That if the said defendant, instead of giving any of the bonds

Bond to each
creditor to pay

before mentioned, shall make, execute and ﬁle in the oﬁiee of the clerk of
the court out of which any attachment shall have issued, a bond,
with two or more sureties, to be approved of by said court or a judge
thereof, to the plaintifff in attachment, and a like bond to each of the
creditors, who shall have applied as aforesaid, in double the sums respec
tively sworn to by them, conditioned for the payment of such monies as
may be adjudged to be due to them severally; and shall also enter his

sum recovered.

Revision.

appearance to the suit of the said plaintifff and each of said creditors; then

-it shall be lawful for the said court or a judge thereof, either in term time
((1.) The bond is for the beneﬁt of and can be prosecuted by,

any creditor applyin , as well as the plaintiff in attachment;
the amount recove
is ior the beneﬂt ofaii spplyingcrediwrs.
Hanna: v. Smilh, '2 lab. 882. If there be an attachment against
A and another against A and B, and A's
s are attached on
both writs, he must give a separate bond n each suit. lb. If
judgment he recovered by the plaintiﬁ, the property surren
dered in discha
ofthe bond must be delivered in the same
condition, asto t tleand lncumhrance, as it. was when the bond
was executed. Schuyler v. S1/Ivraln-,-i Dutch. 487. Or the value
of the goods must be aid. Hanna: v. Bmmell, Ii Znb. 169. See
Vrretaml v. Bruen. 1

. 214.

The court of chancery will not

restrain an attachment suit bemuse the amount of security re

uired is so large as to make it inconvenient or impracticable
or the defendant in such suit. to dissolve the attachment. Dun
gmi v. Miller, 4 C. E. Gr. 2l8.

inasuit on the bond tothe

sheriff. on an appearance by the defendant, with the ordinary
conditions, a Ju gment of mm pr-o.v.. ordered in the original
suit and subsequently set aside, constitutes no defense. Stanlzry
V. Oiamberlaln, 1-i l'r. 102.

(bgl After service ofthe writ the attachmentcannot be settled
by t e parties out of court. C'|mlmin.s v. lilalr, 3 Hnr. liii. If
the discontinuance be entered by fraud, or in bad faith, it will
be set aside. Duﬂln v. Wolf, 1 aw. 475. The lien continues
until the rule is actually entered. Sfnllh v. Warilen, 6 Vr. 346.

ATTACHMENT.

105

or vacation, if it shall appear just so to do, to order the said attachment
to be set aside, and that both the real and personal estate of the defendant
be released and discharged from the lien thereof.
38. That it shall be lawful for any defendant or defendants, in any
suit commenced by attachment, to enter his, her or their appearance
to the suit of the plaintifff or plaintifffs therein, or of any creditor or
creditors under said attachment, without giving bond for the return of the
personal property attached by virtue thereof; which appearance shall be
entered in the clerk’s book, and notice thereof given to such plaintifff or
plaintifffs, creditor or creditors, or his, her or their attorney or attorneys
within twenty days thereafter; and after such appearance and notice, the
suit or suits of such plaintifff or plaintifffs, creditor or creditors, shall pro
ceed in all respects as if commenced by summons, and no other or further
claim shall be put in under such attachment after the entry of such

Real and personal

estate released.

Appearance of
defendant with
out bond.
Act March 1, 1871,

I’. L. p. 22.

appearance. (a)

39. That in any case of an appearance by virtue of the foregoing sec
tion, the lien of the attachment shall continue, (b) and proceedings by
scire facias may be had against any garnishee, and the movable property
attached shall remain in the custody of the sheriff or his bailee, and be
subject to the order and control of the court or the judge thereof, and the
court or judge may, if occasion require, order the property sold as perish
able, and appoint an auditor with like powers in all respects as if no
appearance had been entered, but ajudge of the court may discharge the
lien of such attachment as to all or any part of the personal property
attached, upon four days’ notice to all parties interested, and upon the
defendant or defendants giving bond. with securities, in such amount and
in such condition as said judge may direct.

4D. That the plaintifff in attachment, by and with the consent of all
of the creditors who may have entered a rule to be admitted as credi
tors under any attachment as aforesaid, may enter a discontinuance of
such attachment in vacation; and in case no creditor or creditors shall
have entered a rule to be made creditor or creditors as aforesaid, the

In case oi’ appear
ance of defendant
without bond, lien

continues.

Property, ho\v

disposed of.
Judge may
discharge lien.

Plaintiﬂ‘ may dis
continue in vaca
tion with consent
oi‘ creditors who
have entered rule.

plaintifff in attachment shall discontinue all proceedings in attachment,
upon settlement of his debt.

41. That it shall be the duty of the officer by whom any writ of attach
ment shall be executed, to deliver any property attached by virtue of such
writ to the person in whose possession the same is found, upon the
execution, in the presence of the officer, ofabond to the plaintiffi‘, by

Property to be

left with person
in possessioniif
bond given.

such person, with one or more sufficient sureties, in double the value of

the property. conditioned that the defendant shall perform the judgment
of the court in the action, or that the property or its value, shall be forth
coming and subject to the order of the court for the satisfaction of such
judgment.
IV.

Proceedings on return of writ.-Auditor and his duties.

42. [Amended and supplied by Sec. 85, post]
43. That the plaintifff shall set up, in the oilice of the clerk of said
court, a copy of the notice required to be published by the next preceding
section, and for the same space of time as the same is therein directed to
be published, and shall also ﬁle with said clerk proof of the setting up of
the same, and thereupon the court may order the defcndant’s defaults to
be recorded.
44. That the court, on the return of such writ of attachment. is hereby

required to appoint a ﬁt person (0) to audit and adjust the demands o.4'
the plaintifff, and of so many of the defeudantis creditors as shall have

Copy or which
to be set up in

clerk’s oﬂice.

Auditor to be
appointed.

(a) Notlceoi appearance must be given to the plaintifff in
order toailect his rights. Regal v. Bmprann 17 Ir. 295. See

jludgment, and (2) the jurigment recovered after an appearance
asthe force and eﬁect oi‘ s judgment m perxonum. Daria V.

Ho

llftgrol Z Vr. 417.

k‘: I-.'.rrv'uIIu'n v. Ramsey, 1 Slew. 418.

dmotvr v. Brckrll,

17 . w. 390. Blade on! v. Omotvr i3 Blew. 214.
lb) A Judument or the plalntid, where the defendant ap
peared without giving bond, has s two-fold effect-—(i) ’1‘heprop
erty, real and personabatiacbed may be sold to satisfy the

Sec (,'nnnr.'l,|/ v. I/rrrlw, ‘Z7 V1_-. 97.

it‘) Iflt appeal-that theaudilor appointed is interested, the
court may substitute another person. .-irionymmis, l Hor. 85$
Sowhere an auditor had moved out of the county. Grry v.
Le~u:Lt,2S0uth. "846.

106

ATTACHMENT.

Act Feb. 10, 1869,
P. L. p. 83.
\Vh0 shall audit
accounts.
Amended.

Final judgment
to be entered
alter six months.

Act March %,1a=.0,
P. L. p. 640.

Amended.

applied to the court for that purpose, or to the auditor before he shall have
madehis report; and it shall be the duty of the said auditor to ascertain
the sum due to the plaintifff and to each of the creditors aforesaid, (ti) and
to make his report thereof in writing, under his hand, at the expiration of
six months after the return of said writ, which report shall be ﬁled with
the clerk of said court. (b)
45. That ﬁnal judgment may be entered as of course, in term time or
vacation, upon the report of the auditor, at any time after the expiration
of six months from the return of the attachment; provided, the said report
shall have been on ﬁle in the office of the clerk of said court for at least
ten days, (0) and the said report shall have been ﬁrst approved by the said
court, or a judge thereof, and an order made that such judgment be entered
thereon; and provided further, that the defendant's defaults

shall have

been ordered to be recorded at each regular term between the return of the
attachment and judgment. (d)
46. That for the better discovery of property and detection of fraudulent
practices, it shall and may be lawful for the said auditor to issue his
warrant, under his hand and seal, commanding the sheriff of the proper

Powers of
audltu r.

county, or any constable in the same, to bring before him, at a certain
To examine
persons.

Person refbsing to
be sworn guilty of
a contempt of
court.

To authorize
search.

To administer
oaths.

To institute suits
for sums not ex
ceeding .100.

time and place therein speciﬁed, the wife of such defendant, or any other
person, and him or her, by word of mouth or interrogatories in writing, to
examine, on oath or afiirmation, which the said auditor is hereby author
ized to administer, touching all matters relating to the trade, dealings,
monies, debts, effects, rights, credits, lands, tenements, property, and
estate of the said defendant, and his secret grants, or fraudulent transfer
or conveyance of the same; and if any person shall refuse to be sworn or
examined by or before the said auditor, touching any matter herein
directed, then such person, so offending, is hereby declared to be guilty of
a contempt of the authority of the court which appointed the said auditor,
and shall, by the said court, be proceeded against accordingly. (e)
47. That the said auditor is hereby empowered to issue his warrant,
under his hand and seal, commanding the sheriff of the proper county, or
any constable in the same, to break open, (having ﬁrst made demand and
been refused) any house, chamber, room, shop, door, trunk, chest, or
other place or thing, where he shall have reason to believe any monies,
goods, chattels, books of account, bonds, bills, notes, papers, or writings
of the said defendant may be deposited, secreted, had or found, and to
seize and inventory the same, and make report thereof to the court at the
then next term; and if any person resist the execution of the said warrant,
he shall be guilty ofa contempt of the authority of the court which
appointed the said auditor, and shall be proceeded against accordingly by
the said court.

48. That the said auditor shall have power to administer oaths or
affirmations to all witnesses that may be produced before him in support
of or in opposition to any claims or demands that may be put in by the
plaintifff in attachment or by any other person or persons claiming to be
creditors of the defendant in attachment.
49. That whenever the said auditor shall have reason to believe that
any person or persons are indebted to the defendant in attachment, in any
sum of money, not exceeding one hundred dollars on book account,
promissory note, or otherwise, it shall and may be lawful for such auditor
port an action at law. His ihnctions are precisely like those of

(:1) A creditor is not bound to ﬁle his claim when he applies,
and ifhe does so he is not thereby restricted from proving be
yond the amount claimed. Hanna; v. Smi!h,i Zn?» 495. Ifthe
plaintiﬂ‘ imposes aﬂctitious claim upon the auditors, or one
which has been satisﬁed, he commits a fraud against. which
equity will grant relief, either by enjoining the enforcement oi’
the claim or ordering restitution. Tbmpkm: v. Tbmpli-i1u,3 Stock.

512. See Reewx v. Cooper, 1 Bma. 223. \Vhere ajudgment cred
itor claims the surplus money in a foreclosure suit, it must be

gpid to the auditors. Branltnr/ham v. Brantinghnm, l Eras. 160.
oney raised on execution, which had been attaclied, was or

dered to be paid into court by the nherirl‘. Crane v. Prcae, i
Har. 805.

Interference reihsed by chancery although an ap

plying creditor was a preferred creditor to the amount of his
claim under an assignment in anothersiate and held other coi
iateral securities. Benedict v. Bnwdirl, 2 MCQITL I50. Auditor
should not make 1 report in favor ofa claim which will not sup

ajury, and he must decide every
cording to law and the evidence.

uestion submitted to him sc
orbert v. Herbert, 4 Dirk. 70.

(0) The court may refhse to enter Jud ment on the re rtaud
may refer the matter back to the an itors if they th nit they
have made a mistake in law. Bnv-y v. Outlet, 1 Hal.n1.7i;. Or
or v.
they may extend the time for making the report.
lfoodwartl, 6 Hrll. 1. Or if they do not proceed woo ing to
Pha-1| Ia:
law, or if the disregard the evidence before them.
Iron (in. v. . Y. li'rougM Iron Railroad Chair Lb.. 3 Dutch. 485.
(c) See Plum v. Sugar, 20 Vr. 557.
(xii See Rrpvl v. Seapravea, l1 Vr. 295.
(c) Alter defendant has entered appearance under section 38
of this act, without giving bond, the auditor appointed has no

power to proceed under this section for the discovery of other
property. Jackson v. Johnson, 2.! i'1-.457.

ATTACHMENT.

107

to institute a suit, by summons, before any justice of the peace, in the
name of the defendant in attachment, but for his use as such auditor,
against the person or persons so by him believed to be indebted as afore
said, to the defendant in attachment, for the recovery thereof; which suit

so commenced, shall not he discontinued or dismissed without the consent
of the said auditor, but shall proceed to trial and judgment, in the same
manner as if the plaintifff named therein was personally present conducting
the same ; provided always, that the defendant in such suit shall be entitled 1"°""°
to all just set-offs, in the same manner as he would be if the plaintifff in
such suit was prosecuting the same in person, for his own use.
50. That ifjudgment shall be given in any such suit as aforesaid, for PY°¢°ed=°1'=""
the plaiutilf therein, the money thereby recovered, whether collected by :,‘:,:§::,d;,fp';}‘e'd
execution or otherwise, shall be paid to the said auditor in attachment, to ,,cc,,,,1,,,g,,,1,,,,,,_

be by him disposed of according to law ; and if judgment shall pass against
the plaintifff in such suit, the said auditor shall pay the costs of such suit, _
and shall be allowed to retain the same out of any monies or effects that
may come to his hands as such auditor.

51. [Amended and supplied by Sec. 87, post]
52. That when the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the
said defendant shall be sold as aforesaid, then it shall be the duty of the
said auditor to serve a written notice on each of the creditors whose
claim shall have been admitted, or to cause public notice to he given in
one or more of the newspapers circulating in this state, requiring "a
meeting of the plaintifff and creditors, who may have applied, agreeably
to the directions of this act, at a certain time and place in the said notice
to be speciﬁed, which time shall not he less than six nor more than ten
weeks after such notice given, for the purpose of making distribution of
the monies arising from such sale; at which meeting, or other subsequent
meeting, to be continued by adjournment, if necessary, the said auditor
shall distribute among the said plaintifff and creditors equally, and in a
ratable proportion, according to the quantum or amount of their respective
debts, as ascertained by the said report and thejudgment thereon, all the

Meellnsof
°'°‘"‘°“"

Dislrlhutlouof
“‘°“°Y"“d
chomlnmlom

monies arising from the sale of the said goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, and all other monies in his hands as auditor, ﬁrst deducting
legal costs and charges; and if the said monies be not suﬂieient to satisfy
the said debts, then the said auditor shall assign to the said plaintifff and
creditors the choses in action, rights and credits of the said defendant, in
proportion to their respective debts, so as aforesaid ascertained; which
assignment shall vest the property and interest of the said defendant in
such assignce, so as he may sue for and recover the same in his own name
and for his own use; and in the said distribution and assignment, no

preference shall be allowed to debts due on specialties; and further, that
the monies so distributed, as also the monies which may be received
by virtue of such assignment, shall operate as payment of such debt, in
whole or in part, as the case may be; and the said auditor is hereby
directed to make report of such distribution, assignment and other pro- Report
ceedings under this section, to the court at the next term, in order that
the same may be ﬁled in the clerk’s office.
53. That every grant, bargain, sale. assignment, transfer, assurance, *_’“'°l1°~‘"'@

alienation, and conveyance, made by the said auditor, under or by virtue we "“M'
of this act, shall be as good and effectual in law as if executed by the said
defendant, at and before the time when such attachment became a lien
upon the estate, real or personal, so sold, assigned or conveyed. (a)
54. That any creditor, whose debt is not due, may apply to the court Debts Remus

or auditor in the same manner as if it were due, and thereupon shall be “°“‘““’d'
admitted and considered as a creditor under this act, and shall receive a
dividend of the defendant’s estate in proportion with the other creditors,
deducting only a rebate of legal interest for what he shall receive on such
debt, to be computed from the actual payment thereof to the time such
debt would have become due.
(a) See Oonover v. Be:-A-at, 11 Blew. 388.

108
Applying credi
tors only, paid.

ATTACHMENT.
55. That if any creditor, whether his debt be due or not, shall neglect
or refuse to apply to the court or auditor in the manner prescribed by this
act, he shall not be entitled to any dividend or distributive share; but all
the monies arising from the sale of the defendant’s goods and chattels,
lands and tenements, or which may be collected under this act, shall be
distributed among, and his choscs in action, rights and credits, shall he

assigned to such of the creditors as shall have duly applied to the said
court or auditor. (a)
Creditor, before
receiving divi
(lend, must give
bond.

Death of amne
ant not to abate
suit.

56. That no plaintifff or other creditor shall receive any dividend or
assignment as aforesaid by virtue of this act, until he shall have entered
into bond to the defendant, with one or more sureties, being freeholdcrs
and residents in this state, to be approved by the court or by the auditor,
in double the sum so to be received or assigned, with condition that he
shall appear to any suit that may be brought against him by the said
defendant within one year (b) next alter the date of the said bond, and
shall pay unto such defendant any sum of money which, by the judgment
or decree of the court, shall appear to have been received by him, and not
due or owing, with costs of suit, which bond shall be ﬁled with the clerk
for the beneﬁt of the defendant.
57. That if any defendant shall die after the return day of the writ of
- attachment, the said action shall not be thereby abated or discontinued,
but the same shall be carried on to judgment, sale, transfer, distribution,
and ﬁnal determination, as if such death had not intervened and the

defendant had been alive ; (0) and all proceedings and deeds which shall be
had and made in such case are hereby declared to be as valid and effectual
in law as if they were had and made in the lifetime of such defendant;
and the bond entered into in pursuance of the preceding section may, not
withstanding the death of such defendant, be prosecuted in his name to
judgment and effect in the same manner as if he were living.

V. Proceedings against garnishee.
Suit by piaintii!
against the gar
nlshee.

58. That the plaintifff, notwithstanding the garnishee's denial of his
having any monies, goods, chattels, or effects of the defendant in his
custody or possession,or of his being indebted to him, may, if he really
believes that the said garnishee hath such monies, goods, chattels. or
effects in his custody or possession, or that he is indebted to the defendant,
and is in fear of the said garnishee’s absconding before judgment and
execution can be had against such garnishee, and shall make oath or
afﬁrmation thereof, and deliver the same to the clerk as aforesaid, institute

Amended.

a suit against the said garnishee by summons, or, in case of fraud duly
proved according to the statute in such case made and provided, by capias
ad respondendum in which suit the plaintifff may declare against the said
garnishee for the monies, goods, chattels, or effects so as aforesaid in his
custody or possession, in trover and conversion, as of such plaintifffs own
proper monies, goods, chattels and etfects, or if the said garnishee be
indebted to the defendant in attachment, then the plaintifff may declare
for so much money had and received by such garnishee to the use of the
plaintifff, and, on the trial, may give the special matter in evidence, and
thereupon the jury shall ﬁnd for the said plaintifff, and assess damages to
the full value of the monies, goods, chattels, or eifects so proved to be in
the custody or possession of such garnishee, or to the full value of the
debt so due from such garnishee to the defendant in attachment; on which
verdict,judgment shall be given, with costs of suit, and execution issued
thereon against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, and the body

(cg Creditors not exhibiting their accounts to the auditors
unti after Judgment can derive no beneﬁt from theattachment,
but may take out a new attachment azainat the surplus of de
fendant s property, if any.

Mount v. Ely, 2 Hal. 83.

(b) It is too late, alter the lapse oi’ a year, to apply to a court
to open a Judgment on an attachment.
Il'ulker v. Anderson, 3
Jim‘. 217.

(c) Where the debtor dies ailcr the return day, the action is
not thereby abated or discontinued and acreditor may aprly
or enter his rule to be admitted as if the defendant were a vs.
Smith v. Wa-rdm,6 V1-. M6.

ATTACHMENT.

109

of the said garnisliee, as is or shall be by law allowed in actions of trespass
on the case. (a)
59. 'l'hat the suit so instituted against the said garnishee, shall be con
tinued by the court, witiioiit trial or decision, until the action against the
defendant in attachment shall be adjudicated upon and determined; and
if in such action nothing shall be found due from the defendant to the
plaintifff, then the garnishee shall recover costs against the plaiiitiff, not
withstanding he may be indebted to the defendant, or have the monies,
goods, chattels, or effects of such defendant in his custody or possession.
60. That if, in the suit so instituted against the gariiishee, the plaintifff
shall be nonsuited, or shall discontinue, or verdict and judgment shall be
given against him, then the said garnishee shall recover costs.

61. That where judgment on the report of the auditor shall be entered
against the defendant by default, a scire facias shall (except only as is here
inbefore mentioned) issue against the garnishee, to appear at the next

Suit to be con
tinued until
judgment in
attachment suit.

Garnishee to
have costs on
discontinuance
or non-suit.
Scire facins may
issue against
garnishee.

term (b) after entry of such judgment, and show cause wiiy the plaintifff
should not have execution of the money so as aforesaid due by him to the
defendant, and in his hands, or the value of the goods and chattels of the
defendant, which were in the custody or possession of such garnishee at
the time of executing the writ of attachment,(c) and if the gariiishee
shall appear at the return of the said scire facias, and on oath or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the auditor, confess the amount of the debt due from
him to the defendant, or the true value of the defendant’s goods and chat
tels, which were as aforesaid in his custody or possession, and tender the
same to the auditor. and he accept thereof, then he, the said garnishee,
shall, by the judgment of the court, be acquitted and discharged from the
debt, or goods and chattels aforesaid, with costs ; and if the said scire facias,
having been returned served, or in case no service thereof can be made,
having been published as prescribed by law, the garnishee shall not appear,
confess, and tender as aforesaid, then judgment shall be entered against
such garnishee by default, and a writ of inquiry shall be awarded to the
sheriff or other ofﬁcer, to inquire and certify to the court, by the oath or
aﬁirmation of twelve good and lawful men of his bailiwick, the amount
of the debt due from such garnishce, or the value of the goods and chattels
so as aforesaid in his custody or possession, and on the return of such in
quisition, judgment shall be entered against the said garnishee for the sum
so found and certiﬁed, with costs, (d) and if the garnishee shall appear at
the return of the said scire facias, and plead thereto (e) that he had no
goods or chattels of the defendant in his custody or possession, either at
the time of executing the writ of attachment, or at any time since, or that
he was not indebted to the defendant, and the plaintifff, on trial, shall
prove that he was indebted, (g) then the jury shall ﬁnd for the plaintifff,
and assess damages to the amount or value of such debt, goods, or chattels,
with costs, and judgment shall be entered accordingly, and execution
awarded against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, and also the
person of the said garnishee; (ii) but if the jury ﬁnd for the garnishee,
then he shall recover costs against the plaintifff, and have execution for
the same, and the said auditor shall pay the same out of any monies in
his hands;
the monies realized
by such proceedings shall go to the auditor
.
.
.
.

Moneys recov
ered to go to

for distribution under this act.

,,,,,m,,,_

(a) A municipal corporation is subject to gamishxnent, but the
u-Irejacun cannot issue out ofajusiice‘s court. The Jlayur, &-0.,
ofln-neg Oily v. Horton, 9 i'r. B8.
(b) It is not necessary that the scire jaclaa be returned at the
next term : that part of the statute is directory.

Lomenon v.

Hqfnwn. 4 Znb. 674. But it must be served or published. Cud
ner v. 80/vr. 8 Zub. 236.
(0) The sen-1: jactas must set out witilivprecision and certainty
the nature of the property attached ( eat v. wok, 5 Hal. 337),
and the court will not permit. judgment to beenlered
inst
n gnrnishee, unless its pears on the arirefncku, in whose ands
the property was attac ed and what that property consisted of.
Wruh v. Bluckwd 2 Gr. 844. A bill in equit is not the proper
remedy to compe

the payment by a garn

ee of the monies

attached. Egbert v. Hawk, 1 Boas. 80.
(J) Where no writ of in uiry had issued, and a)Lfa. subse
quently issued against
s and lands of the gsrnishee on a

Amended.

judgment obtained against his administrator, the)1. fa. was set
asi e for irregularity Oanan v. G11-yell, Cbre 8.
(2) The garnishee cannot demur. Welsh v. Blackwell, 2 G1-.
344. Although he is confined to his plea, yet. he ma ' show or
insist upon any matter of law or facl. which would ant ought to
rotect him. Welsh v. Blackwell, 3 Gr. 55. But he cannot call
n question the regularity of the proceedings, or that the writ of
attachment was duly served. Quarter v. S/_i/cr,'8 lab. 286.
(17) To entitle the ieintitf to recover he must prove that the
garnishee is indeb
to the defendant in attachment. Lomm
son v. Hufman, 1 Dutch. 825. Or that the rightof the defendant
in attachment to the chattels in dispute is superior to the gar
nishee‘s.

Oulcait v. Diirltng, 1 Dutch. 4-I3.

(h) It is no error that the verdict rendered is for an amount
greater than the pla.intiﬂ"s claim ; the recovery is for the bene
ﬁt of all applying creditors Lomeraovl v. .Huﬂ'nian, 4 Zao. 674.

ATTACHMENT.

110

VI. Proceedings before justice of peace.

62. [Amended and supplied by Sec. 84, p0st.]
63. That it shall be the duty of the plaintifff forthwith, after the issuing
of such attachment, to advertise (a) in three of the most public places in

Advertisement
required.

the county, that an attachment has been taken out from such justice

against such absconding or absent debtor, in order that any person having
a greater demand against such debtor than is cognizable before a justice
of the peace, may have an opportunity to take out an attachment for the

recovery of the same.
Proceedi n gs
against gurnlnhee.

64. That the plaintifff in such attachment may proceed against the gar
nishee, as hereinbefore provided; and if he shall make suiiicient proof of
the debt due to him, and also of the effects, rights, or credits in the hands

of the garnishee, the said justice shall give judgment therein for the
plaintifff, and award and issue his execution thereof to the constable,

against the garnishee, as in other cases cognizabie before a justice; and if
the plaintifff shall not make sufficient proof of the effects, rights, or credits,
in the hands of the garnishee, he shall pay the garnishee his costs, and if
need be, the justice shall issue his execution against the plaintifff for the
same. (b)

65. [Amended and supplied by Sec. 98, post.
66. [Amended and supplied by Sec. 99, post}
6'1. That from any judgment rendered by a justice of the peace for or
against a garnishee in attachment, under and by virtue of this act, either
party may appeal in like manner in all things as from the judgment of a
justice under the act entitled “ An act constituting courts for the trial of
small causes.”
68. That any writ of attachment against any absconding or absent
debtor, which may be issued out of the supreme court or any circuit court
or court of common pleas, shall be a supersedeas to all attachments issued
by a justice of the peace, undetermined at the time of serving the said _
writ; (0) and it shall and may be lawful for the sheriff or his deputy to
take into his possession all goods and chattels attached by the constable,
as fully to all intents and purposes, as if the attachment issued by the
justice had not been served, and the plaintifffs in said attachments shall be

Appeal in gar
nishee's case.

Justice's attach
ment, when
superseded.

entitled to their several debts, with thc costs that may have accrued, in

Motion to quash
without filing
bond.
'
Act March 13,1862,
P. L. p. 194.

Costs of super
setied nnacllment

to be ﬁrst paid.
lb.

proportion with the other creditors, as is before in this act mentioned and
directed; provided always, that no constable shall be obliged to remove any
goods taken into his custody by virtue of any attachment, after the same
shall have been seized and attached by the sheriff.
69. That in all cases of an attachment hereafter issued by ajustice of
the peace, when an affidavit shall be ﬁled by or in behalf of the defendant,
setting forth facts which would render said attachment illegal or void, it
shall he the duty of saidjustice, upon a motion to quash the writ of
attachment, to try said facts, without requiring the defendant to ﬁle a bond
according to the requisition of this act, and to give judgment on said
motion. ( d)
'70. That when an attachment issued by a justice of the peace shall be
superseded by an attachment out of a higher court, the piaintiﬂ" in the
attachment so superseded shall be entitled to be ﬁrst paid out of the prop
erty attached the full amount of the legal costs and expenses which may
have accrued on the attachment so superseded.

(al The advertisement must be proved to have been made
and entered on the docket. Lent: v. Catlin, 2 Dulrh. 218. Being
“satisﬁed with putting up the advertisements," is not a audi
fierét entry. Lbnotwr v. O0'!lOi.'('l', 2 1{m'. 157. See Dodge v. Butler,
3 1'. 370.
(0) A rrire fariru cannot be served on a corporation unless it
can be served in the same way that asummnna could. Del.,

(c) Qunshing the writ in the superior court does not revive
the jurisdiction of the justice. Ikrmm v. Abbott, 1 Hnr. 319.
Nor can the justice proceed, alter his Judgment has been

removed to ill!‘ circuitor supreme court, reversed and remitted.
Flannr/an v. Jr romr, 5 1)ulrh. 391.

(in tr rertiorrrri to the corn

mon pieas and reversal, the proceedings were continued in the

Laclr. and li'e‘.v(rrn R. R. Cb. v. .l)irlmi, 7 V1-. 36!. Nor issue
against s. municipal corporation. .’l’!u: 4T[|1._7/771', it-c., of .In".w_1/

supreme court. (wry v. I/u‘i.r, 2 SIIHI/i. ‘M6.
(di ’l‘o make it the duty of the jn-tiec to try the facts, on a
motion tn quash. there must have bvell lilcd withhim an am

City v. Horton. 9

davit, settim: torlh such facts as, if \1llC0ilI.i‘il.(1l('!9d, evince that

Vi". 88.

Judgment must be given azuinst the

defendant in attachment hi-fore the justice issues a xcirr fuclas

lhu writ was illegally issued and void.

against the garnishce.
llmrlcrm v. Bnllmtim‘, 1 Hm-. 484.
\Vheu the title to properly is disputed between the defendant
in attachment and the garnisliee, the defendant's right must be

311*.

proved.

Otllcalt V. Durling, 1 1)l1((‘Ii. -H3.

Mr/rris v. Quick, 16 Vr.

The determination of a justice oi‘ the peace on atrial of

facts, on a motion to quash a writ, is reviewnble on ccrliorari.
]*iisln74.‘ v. Bowdcn, 26 V1". 69.

111

ATTACHMENT.
71. That upon the expiration of the term of oﬂice of anyjustice of the
peace before whom a judgment shall have been obtained against a defend
ant in attachment, as provided for by this act, all the proceedings against
the garnishee authorized herein may be had before any other justice of the

Death ofjnstice
after judgment.
Act April 9, 1867,

1’. L. p. 911.

peace}-_ ,1,

VII. Fees}
72. That the auditor shall be allowed a reasonable compensation for his
services, to be taxed by one of the judges of the court, and paid out of the
defendant’s estate.

73. 'l‘hat the freeholder who may be employed by any sheriff to make
an inventory and appraisement of the property attached, pursuant to the
sixteenth section of this act, shall be entitled for such service, to the sum
of one dollar; and if employed more than one day in such service, then at
the rate of one dollar a day ; and the freeholder employed by any constable
to perform a like service under an attachment issued by a justice of the
peace, shall be entitled to ﬁfty cents therefore, and no more; which com
pensation shall be paid by the said officers to the freehoiders employed by
them respectively, for the purpose aforesaid, and shall be allowed to the
said oﬁcers, in. addition to their other fees, for serving the said writs.
74. That there shall be allowed to the justice, for issuing an attachment
and recording the return thereof, thirty-ﬁve cents; for a summons against
a garnishee, twenty cents; and to the constable, for serving a writ of
attachment, sixty cents; there ‘shall also be allowed to the justice and
constable, for all other services performed under this act, the same fees as
are allowed by law for the like services in other cases in the court for the
trial of small causes.

Fees of auditor.

Fees of freeholder
in making ap
praisement.

Fees ofthe ]ustl0O
and constable.

VIII. General provisions.
75. That this act shall be construed in all courts of judicature in the
most liberal manner for the detection of fraud, the advancement of justice,
and the beneﬁt of creditors. (a)
76. That all orders for the appointment of auditors, for the sale of per
ishable property, for advertising the attachment, for the sale of the
defendant‘s property, and all other orders not speciﬁcally required by this
act to be made in open court may be made out of court by a judge of the
court in which the action is pending, in term time or vacation.
.
77. That in all cases where writs of attachment have heretofore been
issued, or may hereafter be issued, and no proceedings have been or shall
be had thereon for the period of twenty years, the same shall cease to bind
the property and estate of the defendant so attached at the expiration of
the said twenty years.
[For preferences on attachment given to wages, see post, title OPEaA'r1vEs.]

Odnstruction
to be liberal. ,

Orders may be
made at chnmberﬂ.
Act March 2.3, 1859,

P. L. p. 840.

Proceedings if
not pursued for
twemy years,

cease to have
effect.
Act March 17, 1870,

P. L. p. 53.

IX. Supplements.
Supplement.
Approved February 20, 1883.

P. L. 1883, p. 42.

78. S1-:0. 1. That whenever an appearance shall have been or shall be

When appear

entered by the defendant or defendants, under any of the provisions of
the act to which this is a supplement, it shall not be necessary to publish
or set up the notice prescribed by the forty-second and forty-third sections
of said act; and if, at the time of the entry of such appearance, publica
tion of such notice shall have been commenced, the same may be dis
continued.

ance entered,
publication of
notice not
necessary.

(a) See Qmneuy v. Lerche, 27 Vr. 103.

ATTACHMENT.

112

Supplement.
Approved April 22, 1886.

P. L. 1886, p. 235.
Proceedings in
case ofoonﬂlcb
tn; claims or
liens.

79. SEO. 1. That where an attachment has heretofore been issued or
shall hereafter be issued out of the supreme court or any circuit court of
this state, by virtue of which any real or personal estate ma_y have been or
shall be attached, and there are conﬂicting claims, or liens, by way of
mortgage, judgments, bills of sale, mechanics’ liens, or otherwise, it shall
be lawful for the court out of which said attachment issues, or any judge
thereof, by rule, order, or otherwise, to have all persons having claims
against the property to appear before any supreme court commissioner to

furnish before him the evidence of their respective claims to the said
courts respectively, which evidence shall be reported by said commissioner
to the court out of which said attachment issued.
Priority of liens
or claims, how
determined.

80. SEO. 2. That said court thereupon shall ﬁx a time when the persons
claiming any mortgages, judgments, liens, encumbrances or claims against
said property may be heard, and after such hearing decide upon the
validity and priority of such liens, and the order in which they shall be
paid, and order a sale of said real or personal property, or both, on thirty
days’ notice of sale, by publication in ﬁve public places in the county
where the same is situate, and publication in one newspaper’ printed in the
same county.

Judgments, when
entered and when
auditor may make
report, ac.

Auditor to take
charge of real
estate attached,

and to collect
rents, &c.

81. SEC. 3. That judgment upon the auditors report may be entered
after three months have elapsed alter the execution of the writ of attach
ment, and that the auditor may make his report at any time after the ex
piration of three months after the execution of the writ of attachment,
and that no formal calling of the defendant in open court shall be necessary,
but that his default to appear may be recorded at the second term of the
court after the said writ of attachment shall have been executed. (a)
82. SEO. 4. That in all cases where real estate has been or shall hereafter
be attached under the act to which this is a supplement, the auditor, under
the authority of the court or a judge thereof, may take charge of the same
and collect for the beneﬁt of the creditors and hold subject to the attach
ment, the rents, issues and proﬁts thereof, pending the attachment, and
for that purpose he shall have power to take possession of any such real
estate and make such lease or leases of the same, not exceeding the term
of one year, as he may see ﬁt, and the court in which any such real estate
shall stand attached shall have power to make all orders to assist such
auditor in obtaining possession of such real estate and collecting the rents,
issues and proﬁts thereof that may be necessary.

Supplement.
P. L. ms, p. an.
Property of ab~
sounding or non

resident debtors
may be attached,

sold, &c., for pay
ment of penalties.

Approved April 28, 1886.

83. SEO. 1. That in all cases where any penalty or penalties are or may
he recoverable under and by virtue of the provisions of any statute or stat
utes of this state, the rights and credits, monies and effects, goods and
chattels, lands and tenements, of any person or persons who have incurred
such penalty or penalties, but who may abscond or who may reside out of
this state, shall be liable to be attached, taken, proceeded against, sold,

assigned, transferred and conveyed for the payment of such penalty or
penalties, in like manner, as nearly as may be, as the rights and credits,

monies and effects, goods and chattels, lands and tenements of other
Proviso.

debtors are made liable by the act to which this is a supplement; provided,
that the oath or aﬁirmation required by the act to which this is a supple

ment shall declare for what penalty the action is brought, and shall con
tain the title or titles of the statute or statutes under which such penalty
or penalties have accrued. (b)
(a) See Plum v. Sugar, ‘J0 l'r.5I57.

ll(b) S86 lVuIl‘ull V. Sklllilll, ‘.37 V1‘. 221.

ATTAG HMENT.

113

Supplement.
Approved February 14, 1888.

B4. SEO. l. That section sixty-two of said act be and the same is hereby
amended to read as follows:
[That any justice of the peace within this state. on application made and
aﬂidavit ﬁled before him to the purpose aforesaid, shall, and he is hereby
required to issue out of the court for the trial of small causes, an attach

P. L. l8SS, p. 38.

Proceedings
before Justice
of the peace.

ment, under his hand and seal, for any sum not exceeding two hundred
dollars, directed to a constable, who shall execute the same in manner

aforesaid, on the effects, rights and credits of the defendant; (ct) and upon
the return of such attachment, the said justice shall appoint a day for th_e
hearing of the said cause, not less than twenty days from the issuing of
the said writ, (b) on or before which day so appointed, the plaintiﬂ' in the
said attachment shall ﬁle a copy of his account or state of demand, and if
the creditor shall make suﬂicient proof of the debt due to him, the said
justice shall give judgment therein for the plaintifff, and award his excell
tion thereof to the constable, against the effects of the defendant, as in
other cases cognizable before a justice, but the effects of the defendant

thereon _taken,shall not be sold in less than three months (unless the
same are perishable), to the end that the debtor or his friend may redeem
the same, and in the meantime the same shall be inventoried and safely
kept in such manner as the justice shall direct.] (c)

Supplement.

Approved MENU 9,1501.

P. L. 1891. P. IN.

85. SEO. 1. That section forty-two of the act entitled " An act for the
relief of creditors against absconding and absent debtors,” approved March
twenty-seventh, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four (Revision,
page i'orty-nine), be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows:

[That it shall be the duty of the court out of which any attachment may
issue, or of a judge thereof, to order the clerk of such court to cause notice
of the issuing of such attachment, and at whose suit, against whose estate,

Court or judge to

order notice of
attachment
advertised.

for what sum, and when returned, to be published in such one or more

newspapers in this state as said court or judge shall direct, for a space not
less than four and not lnore than six weeks successively, at least once in
each week; and judgment shall not be entered until proof to the satisfac-'
tion of said court or said judge shall be made of such publication] (d)

Supplement.
Approved April l6, 1891.

86. SEC. I. That in all cases arising under the act to which this is a
supplement, and in which there are applying creditors and a sale by an
auditor appointed by the court out of which the attachment issued, there

P. L. l-891, p. 475.
Compensation
allowed to at
torney of plaintifff.

shall be allowed to the attorney of the plaintifff in attachment a reasonable
compensation and fee, to be determined, taxed and paid in the same way
as an auditor's fees are now taxed and paid.

Amendatory act.
Approved March 10, 1898.

P. L. 1.103, p. 202.

87. SEO. 1. That section ﬁfty-one of the act to which this is amendatory
be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows:
(a) it must clmrlya pear by the constable’: return that some
property was attach
or the justice cannot proceed. Lent: v.
Chllln, 2 Dulzh. 218. That he served the writ "according to the
statute in such case made and provided," islnsufllcient. He

Justice ﬁxed a day for the hearing.

should return the way in which he executes the writ, so that the

of an execution, before they are sol
Austin v. Wade, Pm. ".907.

court can judge whether it is according to law.

Ormnnn v.

Jsﬁvuhrr, 4 Imlrh. 149. An attachment out of a court for the
trial of small unites must be executed in the presence of a
freeholder. who must sign the nppraisemem. Dlltmar Potvdvr
0». v. Lelm. 13 V1‘. 540.
tb) It must appear that on the return of the attachment the

187.
(1-)

Ormover v. Chnouer, 2 Hm-.

The plaintifff in attachment cannot maintain trespass

nzninst the sheriff who levies on the oods attached, by virtue
under the attachment.

(ll) Ii‘ the clerk neglect to advertise the attachment until the
second term, the writ will not be quashed where the other pro
ceedings have been r;gulnr. ('m"_v/ V. L¢ll.‘l-8,2SOilUl. ‘B46. See
Gudliia lids. H0z:,vll. 2 1'. 313. Cbnurrr V. (bnot-er, 2 Hi|1'. 187.

ATTACHMENT.

114
Sale of property
by auditor.

[That where judgment, on the report of the said auditor, shall be entered
against the said defendant by default, the said auditor may, by virtue of an
order of court for that purpose, make sale and assurance of the goods and
chattels, (a)

lands

and tenements, of the said defendant, which

were

attached and taken as aforesaid, and upon which the attachment remains
a lien, or such part thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the debts of the
plaintiffi', and the creditors who may have applied agreeably to the direc
tions of this act; (b) but notice of the sale of such goods and chattels shall

be set up at ﬁve of the most public places in the county; and be adver
tised in some one of the newspapers circulating in this state, for the space
of thirty days prior to such sale; nor shall any sale of such lands and tene
ments he made in less than six months from the time of executing the writ
of attachment, nor of any goods or chattels, till judgment be obtained
against the defendant as aforesaid, unless the court in its discretion or a
judge thereof shall, on the return of the said writ, or at any other time
before judgment, order the said sheriﬂ' or auditor to sell such goods and
chattels; in which case advertisements set up for the space of ﬁve days
prior to the time of sale, in four of the most public places in the township,
precinct or ward, shall be suillcient.]

Supplement

P. 1.. ism, p. sol.
Manner ol'adver
Using sales.

Approved March 16, 189$.

88. Sac. 1. That if any order for the sale of goods and chattels by an
auditor shall hereafter be made by the court under the provisions of the
act to which this act is a supplement, it shall be suﬂicient, unless the court
shall provide otherwise in said order, to advertise the said sale in the same
manner as sales of goods and chattels by the shcritf under an execution are
now advertised.
Supplement.

P. L. mu, p. an.
Personal properly
may be Blilll ur.

private sale.

Auditor may oom
pleie goods and
chattels in process

of cons! ruciion,
and pay expenses.

Real estate may
be put in tenant

able oundiiion.

Approved April 19, l8i>i.

89. Sac. 1. That in all cases where an attachment has heretofore bccn,
or shall hereafter be, issued out of the supreme court or any circuit court
of this state, the said court, in its discretion, or a judge thereof, may,
either before or after the entry ofjudgment, order the whole, or such part
of the personal property as shall be necessary, sold at private sale upon
such terms and under such restrictions as may be imposed in the order
for sale.
90. Sac. 2. That in all cases where an attachment has heretofore been,
or shall hereafter be, issued out of the supreme court or any circuit court
of this state, by virtue of which personal property may have been, or shall
be, attached, and such personal property consists of goods and chattels in
process of construction, the court out of which such attachment issued, in
its discretion, or a judge thereof, may, by order, direct the auditor to make
such expenditure-as may be necessary to complete said goods and chattels
and put them in marketable condition, and allow and pay the expenses
incurred therein out of any monies in the hands of the auditor.
91. Sac. 3. That in all cases where real estate has been, or shall here
after be, attached under the act to which this is a supplement, the auditor,
under the authority and direction of the court out of which the attachment
has been, or shall be, issued, or a judge thereof, may make such expendi
tures as shall be necessary to put the same in tenantable condition, and
the expenses thus incurred shall be allowed and paid out of any monies
in the hands of the auditor.

(m The sale can only bemade by order of the court. 7bmumon v. twin, 4 Dutch. 204. Stock of an incorporated company

as void. Johmon v. Gnrr-dz, 1 C‘. E. G-r. 81 So where the
description of the premises to be sold wasimperfecl and the

may be sold. cmue v. (.‘n'r1', i llar. 39-i. But not if the stock
has been regularly transferred before the attachment issued.
sum, Bush v. Warrm Fbundry 02., 3 Vr. 439. See Blzitch/ord v.
Omomr, 18 Stew. 212.

price

lllcﬁlrf. 88. But inadequacy of price and the that that the
debtor being a non-resident, was not aware of the sale, and that

(0) A sale by auditors of several tracts of land, that should
have been sold separaiely, and where a sale of rt would have
been suﬂicient to salls
the claims of the p ntiﬂ‘ and the
applying creditors,is a e ear breach ottrusz and will he set aside

of a court of equity. Elzrrhart v. Gilda-ut, 3 Stock. 137. See
Beavs v. Gooper, 1 Benz. 223. The title of a bonaﬂde urehaser
cannot be defeat
by parol proof of the payment o the debt
before the sale.
wwu v. Duster, 2 Vr. 461.

realised

grossly inadequate.

Ifmlpum v.

fl'l7“I‘(U, 2

he has a good defense, are not enough to justify the interference

ATTACHMENT.

115

Supplement.
Approved May 9, lB‘.H.

92. SEC. 1. 'l‘hat in every distribution made in any suit hereafter com
menced under the act to which this is a supplement of any monies attached
or arising from the sale of goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the

P. L. 1894, p. 274.
Piaintiﬂfln attach
ment shnli first be
paid.

defendant or defendants, and in any assignment made of choses in action,

rights and credits of such defendant or defendants, there shall ﬁrst be paid
to the plaintifff or plaintifffs in attachment the whole amount of his or their
judgment against the defendant or defendants, and the balance of the
monies shall be distributed and the choses in action, rights and credits
assigned among the rest of the applying creditors as now provided by law.
93. S1-:0. 2. That all acts.and parts of acts in so far as they may be
inconsistent with this act are hereby repealed.

Supplement.

Repealer.

Approved February 25, 1895.

94. SEO. 1. That in all cases where an attachment shall hereafter be
issued out of the supreme court or any circuit court or common pleas court
of this state, and the sheriff or other oﬂicer to whom said _writ has been
issued shall have attached any personal property, such sheriff or other
officer shall be entitled to receive a just and reasonable compensation for
storage, watchman or any expense necessary to secure the safe keeping of
the property so attached, such compensation to be ﬁxed by the court out
of which said writ issued, or any judge thereof, to be paid out of the ﬁrst
monies arising from the sale of such property.
95. SEC. 2. That in all cases where an attachment shall hereafter be
issued out of the supreme court or any circuit or common pleas court of
this state, the said suit shall not be discontinued until the compensation
so as aforesaid ﬁxed shall have been paid.
96. SEC. 3. That in all cases where an attachment shall hereafter be
issued out of the supreme court, circuit court or any common pleas court
of this state and the same shall have been quashed or dismissed by said
court or any judge thereof, that the compensation so due said sheriff or
other officer shall be considered as a part of the taxed costs in said suit to be
paid by the plaintifff.
97. SEC. 4. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act be
and the same are hereby repealed.

P. L. 1895, p. 106.
Court shall ﬁx
compensation for
oxpenses of safe
keeping of at
tached property.

Bulls shall not be
discontinued until
compensation is
paid.
\Vhen plaintifff
shall pay sherlﬂ"s
fees, rte.

Repealer.

Amendatory act.
'

Approved March 22, 1895.

98. SEO. 1. That section sixty-ﬁve of the act entitled “ An act for the
relief of creditors against absconding and absent debtors” be amended so
as to read as follows :
1
[That it shall be lawful for the defendant in any attachment issued by a
justice of the peace, on or before the day appointed for the hearing of the
said cause, to ﬁle with the said justice a bond to the plaintifff, (a) executed
by one or more suﬁicient sureties, being freeholders and resident in the
county in which such attachment shall issue, in double the amount of the
claim of the plaintifff, as set forth in the aﬂidavit ﬁled with said justice,
conditioned for the due and safe return of the goods and chattels, rights
and credits, monies and effects seized and taken by virtue of such writ of

P. L. 1895, 1!. 595.

Defcndanvs prop
erty may be re
leased upon filing
a satisfactory
bond.

attachment, in case judgment shall be rendered for the plaintifff; which

said bond shall be approved by the said justice, and ﬁled by him for the
use and beneﬁt of the plaintifff; and thereupon the property attached shall
be restored to the defendant and released from the lien of said attachment]
99. SEC. 2. That section sixty-six of said act be and the same is hereby
amended so as to read as follows:
(a) If the defendant appear he must ﬁll a bond. Darla v.
lllahany. 9 Vr. 104. see, owever, section 65 as it stood at the

time this decision was rendered. See Leeds v. Iueuer, 2'2 Vr.
470. Hazlllt v. Morrow, 28 Vr. 547.

116
Defendant shall
file plea after

ATTACHMENT.

[That after ﬁling the said bond the said defendant shall ﬁle his plea,
copy of account or set-oil‘, if any he have; and the said cause shall and

ﬁling bond.

may be adjourned and conducted in all things in like manner as if the
same had been commenced by summons, under the act entitled “An act

constituting courts for the trial of small causes;” and either party may
Either party
may appeal.

appeal from the said judgment in like manner, in every respect, as if the
said suit had been commenced by summons under the said last-mentioned
act, and in case the defendant shall fail to ﬁle his bond on or before the

day appointed for the hearing of the cause, he nevertheless may appeal
from the said judgment upon giving bond as aforesaid; and thereupon

the property attached shall be restored to the defendant and released from
the lien of the said attachment]

A further

supplement to an act for the relief of creditors against
absconding and absent debtors. (1)
Approved March 27, 1.-C4.

P. L. 1874, p. 117.
Proceedings in
case nfrieath of
defendant in
attachment.

100. Snc. 1. That in case oi‘ the death of any defendant in attachment,
after the return day of the writ of attachment, as provided for in the
forty-eighth section of the act to which this is a supplement, it shall be
lawful for the executors or administrators of such deceased deibndant to
enter an appearance to the suit of the plaintifff or plaintifffs therein. or of
. any creditor or creditors under the said attachment, in the manner and to
the same effect as is provided for in cases of living defendants in the sup
plement to said act, approved March ﬁrst, one thousand eight hundred
1 and seventy-one; and thereupon such further proceedings may be had as
are provided for in said supplement in cases of living defendants.

A further supplement to the act entitled “An act for the relief of
creditors against absconding and absent debtors,“ approved April
sixteenth, eighteen hundred and forty-six.
Approved April 5, 1876.

P. L. 1876, p. 75.

Repesler.

101. SEC. 1. [This section amended and supplied by Sec. 103, p0st.]
102. S1-:0. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro
visions of this act be and‘ the same are hereby repealed, and that this act
shall take effect immediately.

An

act to‘ amend an act entitled “ Afurther supplement to the act

entitled ‘An act for the relief of creditors against absconding and
absent debtors,"' approved April sixteenth, one thousand eight
hundred and forty-six, which further supplement was

approved

April ﬁfth, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-six.
Approved February hi, i-886.

P. L. 1886, p. 50.

103. SEO. 1. That the ﬁrst section of the act of which this is :unenda
tory, be and the same hereby is amended so as to read as follows :
When wages, &.c.,
of non-resident
empioyes not
liable to attach
ment.

[That the wages, salaries or other compensation for labor, work or
services done or rendered within this state, or elsewhere, due to anon
resident employe, shall not be liable to attachment at the suit of a non
resident creditor, or his or her assigns] (a)

(l) This is a sup iement to the attachment act of 1846, pased on the day that act was repealed. The forty-eighth section ofthat
supplement is the fifty-seventh section of the present revised act, and the act of March 1-'41. 1871, is section 35
act referred tn in t
of the revised act.
(G) 506 B-cedman v. Ouykmdall, 2 l\’. J. L. .T. 125.

CERTIORARI.

367

Certiorari.
make orders thereon.
2. Allowance of.
3. To be presented in open court.

13. Proceedings when return of assessment in acase touching
public improvements, is defective.
14. Action respecting costs of writ.
15. Notice of re-assessment for public improvement, how given.

4. On indictments. Recognlzance required.
5. Recognizance, where ﬁled.

16. Amended by section 18.
l7. Repealer.

8. Proceedings in supreme court on crrtlorari.
7. Reoognizance required in other cases. Condition of. Where

18. Court shall determine disputed questions of fact and law in
certain cases.

\

May be allowed by judge in term or vacation.

Judge may

delivered and ﬁled.

19. Repealer.

B. Allowance oi‘ costs.
9. Amended by sections 16 and 18.
10. On reversal of assessment for public improvements, court
may appoint commissioners to make a new assessment.
ll. Jurisdiction oi‘ circuit court.
1‘.‘. Limitation of ccrtiomri.

N. Court empowered to make reassessment in certain cases.
21. Repeaier.
E. Judicial proceedings oi‘ city judge or city courts may be
reviewed.
‘L3 . Repealer.

R. s. 200, 929, ass,
as-1.
An act relative to the writ of certiorari.
Revision—Apptoved March 27, 1874.

1. That writs of certiorari and of supersedeas may be allowed in term or
vacation (a) by a justice or judge of the court, out of which they may
issue, and such justice or judge is hereby authorized at any time to make
all necessary orders thereon. (b)
2. That no writ of certiorari shall be granted to remove into the supreme
court any indictment, judgment, order, process or other proceedings, unless
it be signed by one of the justices of the supreme court, and for want thereof,
such writ shall be absolutely void and of no eifect.
3. That every writ of certiorari for the removal of any indictment, judg
ment, or order from any court of oyer and terminer, or court of general
quarter sessions of the peace, shall be delivered to the same in open court.
4. That the supreme court or any justice thereof may, in its or his dis
cretion, at the instance of any person indicted,on application in term time
or vacation, award a writ of certiorari to remove into said court any indict
ment before trial, from any court of oyer and terminer and general jail
delivery, or court of general quarter sessions of the peace, upon the follow
ing and no other terms, that is to say: that the person indicted and prose
cuting such certiorari, shall, before the allowance thereof, with two suificient
sureties,enter into recognizance to the state of New Jersey before the supreme
court, or any justice thereof, in such sum as the said court or justice shall
direct, with condition that the person so indicted and prosecuting the cer
tiorari shall, at its return, appear and plead to the said indictment in the
said supreme court, and, at his own cost and charges,(c) cause and pro
cure the issue that shall he joined upon the said indictment or presentment,
or any plea relating thereto, to be tried at the next circuit court to be held
for the county wherein the said indictment was found, after such certiorari
shall be returnable, if the said supreme court shall not appoint any other
time for the trial thereof, and if any other time be so appointed, then at such
other time; and shall not depart the said supreme court until discharged
by the same, and shall pay costs, if convicted of the offense charged in the
said indictment; and upon further condition, that, if the supreme court
(11) A or-rtiorart in a road case maybeallowed in vacation.
Powrll v. Hilchcner, 3 V:-. 211. I-‘or cases before act of April
6th 18155. where ap llicntion was made to n judlge at chambers,
arid where appli
for at bar, see Liultaw v. urllow 1 South.
'387(a): also G1-Lrrum v. C1'|'lrno1'c, 3 Gr. 475, and Ea: park:

b7tough. l Jlar. 264.
(0) The court from which a cm-tiorari issues, is to decide on
its legality ; the inferior court must obey it.

(.l'rrv' 287.

The State v. Hunt,

A cn1im-an‘ may issue although there may be an

appeal as in case of commissioners 6w. Kingsuind v. Gould, 1
Hal. l61. New Jeruy R. R. O0. v. l§u_v/(lam, 2 Har. ‘Z5. But not
in cases injustices‘ courts. Port, Jusricl-xi’ COURTS, Sec 98. A

rnamlmmu was issued to the common pleas where they had
ordered proceedln on an appeal to bestayed until a cerliorarl
should be decitlet . Budd v. New Jersey R. R. (b., 2 Gr. 468.
See

While v. Il[v:Ch-ll, Ovu 93.

Stale v. Bidleman, 1 Har. M7.

P. L. 1865, p. 799.
“
“

1871, 1). 124.
i873, p. 165.

Ma be allowed
by udge in term
or vacation.
P. L. 1865, p. 799.
Judge may make
orders thereon.
Allowance of.
R.
983.

To be presented
in open court.

On indictments.
R. S. 983.
P. L. 1873, p. 165.
Amended.

Recognizanca
required.

Condition of.

The writ may be served by any person and in any manner by

means of which the person to whom it is directed may reason
ably be made aware of the fact of issuing the writ and its

requirements. Slaw, Cluzmlzcrs v. Dwg/er, 12 Vr. 93. Should be
directed to person or body having legal custodv of record to be
certiﬁed. Kirkpatrick v. Gzmmiss-toners, 13 V1‘. 510. Operates

as a mpernedzaa to suspend proceedings removed. Hunt v.
Lnmoertvible, 17 Vr. 59. Cannot be issued to test right to oﬂice
or hanchtse. Hatna v. Frce‘)t0ldﬂ'-r, 18 V1-. 454. Lopn" v. mu
vitlc, 24 V1-. 862.

(c) Where a defendant removes an indictment into the su~
preme court and carries it down to the circuit for trial, the
attorney for the state cannot tax his costs as in a civil suit, but
is entitled only to his regular fees as in criminal cases. sum: v.
Reed, 8 Hal. 178.

CERTIORARI.

368

Recognizance,

where filed.

shall so order, the said person so indicted shall appear in the court from
which such indictment was removed, at any term thereof which the su
preme court shall order, and plead to the said indictment and abide the
judgment of the court, and pay costs, if convicted of the oﬂense charged
in the said indictment. (a)
5. That every recognizance, taken by virtue of the preceding section,
shall be delivered to the court to which the certiorari, is directed, together

R. S. 984.

with the said writ; and the recognizance so taken, shall be certiiicd into
the said supreme court, with the said certiorari and indictment, and there
ﬁled; and if such recognizance be not delivered, together with the cer
tiorari, to the court as directed, then it shall be the duty of the said court

Proceedings in

supreme court
on cerilorari.
P. L. 1873, p. 165.
Amended.

Recognizances

required in other
cases.
R. S. 984.

to proceed to the trial of the said indictment in the same manner as if no
such certiorari had been allowed or presented.
6. That upon the removal of any indictment into the supreme court, if
the said court shall determine that the said indictment is not sutiicient in

law, the person or persons so indicted shall thereupon be discharged, and
all further proceedings thereon cease; and in case the said court shall
determine that the said indictment is suﬂicicnt in law, the said court may
in its discretion retain the same in said court, to be carried down for trial
before the proper circuit court, or may order that the same be returned by
the clerk of the said supreme court to the court from which the same was
removed, and the said court to which such indictment shall be remanded,
shall in such case proceed thereon in the same manner as ifthe said writ
had not been allowed.
7. That no writ of certiorari shall be allowed to remove into the supreme
court of this state any judgment or order, given or made by any justice
or justices oi‘ the peace, or court of oyer and terminer, or of general
quarter sessions of the peace, unless the party prosecuting such certiorari,
or some responsible person in his behalf, shall, before the allowance there

Condition oi‘.

of, with two suﬁlcient snreties, enter into recognizance to the state of New
Jersey, before the supreme court, or before one of the justices of the said
supreme court, in the sum of one hundred and ﬁfty dollars, with condition
that the party obtaining such certiorari shall prosecute the same to effect
without delay, and shall perform such judgment or order as the said supreme
court shall give or make thereon, with costs, if costs ‘be awarded; and every

Where delivered
and ﬂied.

Allowance of
costs.

P. L. 1s'.'1, p. 124.

recognizance taken by virtue of this section shall be delivered, together
with the writ of certiorari, to the justice or justices, or court, to which such
writ shall be directed, and be certiﬁed into the said supreme court, with
the said certiorari, and the judgment or order removed thereby, and there
ﬁled; and if such recognizance be not so delivered with the certiorari, then
it shall be the duty of the said justice or justices, or court, to proceed on
such judgment or order in the same manner as if no ccrtiorari had been
allowed or presented; provided always, that this section shall not extend
to orders or judgments in actions for debts or demands between party and
party, made cognizable before any justice of the peace by the act entitled
“ An act constituting courts for the trial of small causes.” (b)
8. That the court on the hearing oi‘ any certiorari, may in its discretion,
give jud ment for costs in favor of either party. (c)
9. [T is section amended by Secs. 16 and 18, post]

(a) A certtorari mnnot be allowed until after appearance

entered by defendant.

Bauer ads. The 8¢atc,1Har.8.57. An

sclre faclru, one judgment and one execution.
SLout,6 Hal. 124, 362.

The Stain v.

The recognizance t.‘f‘0&lB.~l€8 lien on the

indictment against e corporation may be removed from the
sessions, upon individuals entering into recognizance on behalf

land from the time of its acknowledgment.

of the company.

cannot show that the return of the court below was untrue.
Slate v. Jones, 6 Hal. 289. See Newlo'n v. Glououler, 1 Hut. 405.
The right to apply for writ is in the prosecutor of pleas of

The Stale v. ﬂue Jim-ris Ounul Cb.,l Gr. 192

A recognizance binds defendant, lat, to appear to answer; M,

to stand to and abide the judgment of the court; 8d, not to
depart without leave of the court, until discharged, although no

in icttnent should be found against him, or although he be tried
And found not guilty by a jury;

where on a acfre Jada: on

&alz v. Qnut, 6 Hat. 1%.

But

is recognizance the defendant

Hal. 362.

State v. 0'u|'..v.',3 V1‘. 318.

S/arr v. S!oul,(i

After an acquittal the state

county and not the attorney-general. 511m v. N. JZ Jor-kry Club,
% Vr. 493. The writ may be allowed by judge at chambers. lb.
(b) A recognizance must be given in a bastardy case. 7irwk.9

bury ads. Sutlrm, 8 Vr. ‘N6.

But not in apauper case.

Bunke

showed that he appeared at the sessions and was tried and

hrm v. Alexrzndﬁa, 2 Vr. 366. Nor in forcible entry and detainer.

acquitted, the recoiinizors were dismissed with costs. State v.
S0und¢'1‘s, 3 Hal. 17¢. Relief may be granted by petition, on
death ozprineipal after forfeiture. State v. Mc2\'eal, 3 Hm-. 333.
.8. 0., 2 ar. 191. Against several recognizers there may be one

Maﬂin v. Iliuyer, 6 HaL 22. Delaney v. L¢wrcnoe,6 Hal. 25,
100.
(1') Bee Lditph Valley B. R. Co. v. Newark, 15 V1‘. 823.

‘CERTIORARI.

369

10. That whenever any assessment for the costs and expenses of laying
out or opening any public road or street, or for paving or otherwise
improving the same, or for the construction of any sewer or other local or
public improvement, shall be set aside or reversed on certiorari, it shall be
lawful in such case for the supreme court to appoint commissioners to
make a new assessment of the costs and expenses thereof; which commis
sioners shall be the same in number, and shall possess the same qualiﬁca
tions as are required for commissioners in making such assessments by the
statute under which the original assessment was made; and the commis
sioners so appointed, shall proceed to make a new assessment and report
thereon upon the same principles and in the same manner as if they had
been appointed under such statute; and their assessments, when made,
shall be collected in the tnanner provided in such statute for collecting
assessments for such improvements; provided, that the commissioners in
making such new assessment, shall include therein the costs and expenses
of such new assessment, together with the interest due on certiﬁcates of
indebtedness or bonds (if any),which may have been issued on account
of such improvement. ((1.)
11. That all judgments, orders and proceedings in the courts for the
trial of small causes, and in the courts of common pleas upon appeals from
said courts for the trial of small causes, and all judgments, orders and
proceedings before justices of the peace and police justices under any
statute or ordinance, may be removed into the circuit court of the same
county by writs of certiorari and supersedeas thereon, allowed by any
judge of such circuit court in the same manner and upon like terms as
such writs are issuable out of the supreme court, and the bond given upon
the allowance of such writs of certiorari shall be modiﬁed so as to conform
to the provisions of this section, and be filed with the clerk of the said

On reversal of
assessment for
puhiic improve
ments the court
may appoint
commissioners
to make a new
I15-§9S8H'iEl‘lL

P. L. 1871, p. 123.

Jurisdiction of
circuit court.
R. S. 200.
Amended.

circuit court. (b)

12. That no writ of certiorari shall be allowed or issued on auyjudg
ment, order or proceeding that shall have been entered or obtained in any
court of record of this state, or that shall hereafter be entered or obtained,
unless the same be issued in eighteen months after the entering or obtain

Limitation oi’
certiorari.
R. S. 9'29.

ing the same. (0)
Supplement.
Approvedmebntary 7A, 1876.

13. SEO. 1. That in all cases of writs of certiorari brought to remove any
tax or assessment or other order or proceeding touching any local or public
improvement, when reasons for reversal are ﬁled, founded on any omission
or defect in the return of said assessment or proceeding which, in the opin
ion of the court out of which said certiorari is issued, may be supplied by
a new or supplemental certiﬁcate of the commissioners or other person
making such return, it shall be lawful for the said court, on the application
of either party to said writ oi’ certiorari, or on their own motion at any time
before said writ of certiorari shall be ﬁnally determined, to grant a rule
upon the commissioners or other persons making such assessment, to certify
to said court touching such omission or defect, and to stay the.ﬁnai deter
mination of such cause for a reasonable time, until said

P. L. i878, p. 20.
Proceedings when
the return oi’as
sessment in a case
touching public
improvement is
defective.

rule shall be

returned to said court; and if it shall appear by the return of said com
missioners, or a majority of them, to said rule, that their action or deter
mination in respect of which said reason for reversal is ﬁled was really had,
made or taken by said commissioners in making said assessment, and was
accidentally or inadvertently omitted from their said return or report of
assessment, the return of said commissioners or other persons to said rule
shall have the same force and effect as if the facts therein certiﬁed had been
(41) Sce&a!r,R_t/vrson v. .Passai¢' 11 Vr. 118.

(b) The Jurisdiction of the circuits is limited to suits originat
ing in the justices‘ courts: they have no urlsdiction over mat
ters of taxation. Hate, Duﬂord v Dr:
r5, 2 V1-. 302. .Pe1'lh
Ambay v. Ilollon, 7| N. J. L. J. 56.

Slate, Jfauraml V. Oomwll. 7

N. ‘J. L. J. 188.
tr,» Where a party applied for a certiorari at Novemberterm
IKE, and had a rule to show muse un which the argument did
not take place until May term, 1831, the writ then granted was

considered as within the time. Steven-s v. Enders. 1 Gr. 271. It
may well he doubted whether the act as to limitation oftims is
not so imperative that it must be submitted to even in ase of
fraud. Cliaznlm-lrzin .v. Barrlnln I G1-.244. It may be issued to
r case after eighteen
brink up an order of twojustlces in a puu
months. Eethlrltc-m v. Frnnlrlin, 2 Imlr . 2l0. See (XITTIIIHI v.
Om-man, Pen. '633. Prohibition relates only to such writs asare
is-med to bring up orders, judtzments or proceedings of courts Of

record.

24

Bownc v. Logan, 14 l'r. 421.

CERTIORARI,

370

contained in the said original report or return ; and said original report or
return shall he considered as amended by said return to said rule. (ar)
Action respecting
costs of writ of
certlonrl.

14. S50. 2. That in all such cases it shall be lawful for the court to take
such action respecting the costs of said writ of certiorari as it shall deem
equitable and just, whether the proceeding reviewed by said certiorari shall
be afllrmed or set aside.
Supplement.

P. L. 1879, p. 196.
Notice of re
assessments for
public improve
ments, how given.

Approved March 14, 1879.

15. SEC. l. That whenever any assessment for the costs, charges and
expenses of laying out or opening any public road, avenue or street, or of
grading, paving, ﬂagging or otherwise improving the same, or of the con
struction of any sewer, or of any other local or public improvement, shall
have been or shall he set aside or reversed on certiorari, either in whole or

in part, and commissioners shall he or shall have been appointed by the
supreme court to make a new assessment, in whole or in part, or whenever
by reason of the setting aside or reversal as aforesaid, the same commis
sioners which have already acted (including any other commissioner legally
substituted in the place of any of them), shall have power to make a new
assessment, in whole or in part, and the statute or statutes under which
said commissioners are required to perform their duties make no special
provision or a defective provision, for a notice to be given to the parties
interested, for a hearing before the said commissioners, it shall be lawful,

and the supreme court or a justice thereof is hereby empowered to prescribe
the nature of the notice to be given, and to order its publication for such
length of time,.in any of the newspapers of this state, as the court or
justice may consider proper and suilicient.
Amendatory act.
Approved February 17, 1881.

P. L. 1881, p. M.

16. SEC. 1. [This section,amending Sec. 9, ante, is amended by Sec.
Repealer.

18 posh]
T7. SEC. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent herewith be and
the same are hereby repealed, and this act shall take effect immediately.
Amendatory act.
Approved March 28, 1895.

P. L 1895, p. 756.

Con rt shall deter
mine disputed
questions of fact
and law in certain
cases.

Proviso.

18. SEC. 1. That section nine of “An act relative to the writ of cer
tiorari,” approved March twent_v-seventh [see Secs. 9 and 16, ante], one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-four, is hereby amended so as to read
as follows :
[That in all cases of writs of certiorari, now pending or hereafter
brought, to remove any tax or assessments or other order or proceeding
touching any local or public improvement, or to review the proceedings of
any special statutory tribunal, it shall be the duty of the court to deter
mine disputed questions of fact, as well as of law, and to inquire into the
facts by depositions taken on notice, or in such other manner as is accord
ing to the practice of the court; proz-id¢>rl, hou-ever,that it shall and may be
lawful for either party to use the testimony taken on its, his or her side,
before the tribunal whose action is being reviewed, which said testimony
shall be considered by the court the same as if it had been taken by
deposition on notice, and either party may take such additional testimony
on notice as they may deem necessary to properly present the questions
involved to the court; and the court shall thereupon reverse or aﬁirm, in
whole or in part, such tax assessment or other order or proceeding accord
ing to the justice of the case.] (I1)

Rspesler.

19. SEO. 2. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent herewith be and
the same are hereby repealed, and that this act take eil'ect immediately.

(0) Where the-commissioners lu their original report ofrwsesa
meuis failed to cr-riify with such ClPRl'll9.'~H as ls desirable ilnn:

(bi The supreme court will not determine disputed questions

they had assessed all the lands h:-up-iited.nn amendment was

oi’ fact arising in the]ustices' courts or common pleas. Graft v.
§‘milh, 6 V1‘. 302. Jr_(l'1"r5/ V. Ol(V‘1l, 12 V1‘. Z00. Ovcrserr Q! ‘Undi

made under a rule granted for that purpose.

xrm V. .’ll0li1w', 13

V. Ulinlmi, 10 V1‘. 659.

Stair, Nkinlrlc

l'r. -195.

Lush v. Ibstcr, 15 Vr.378.

Briflon V. J[¢.‘Don1|ld, 14

1'1‘. 591.

Sloan v. Wills, 15 Vr. 584. Ilvwkr

371

C ERTIORARI.

A. general act in relation to assessments for roads, streets or sewers,
where the same have been or shall be set aside or reversed by any
court only as to the prosecutor or prosecutors of any writ of certio
ra.ri, and providing for a re-assessment, in all such cases, by the
court setting aside such assessment.
Approved April 2, 1888.

20. SEO. 1. That whenever any assessment heretofore made or hereafter

to be made for any road, street or sewer, has been or shall be set aside or
reversed only as to the prosecutor or prosecutors of any writ or writs of
certiorari, by any’ court of law or equity in any action, suit or proceeding
for any cause whatsoever, and the property upon which such assessment was
or is assessed or laid, is or shall be in fact liable to assessment in respect to
the purposes for which such assessment was or shall be assessed or laid, the

P. L. 1888, p. N0.
When assessment
set aside, court
empowered, upon
application, to
determine sum
property ls liable
to he assessed.

court in which the action, suit or proceeding was or shall be taken, and

wherein said assessment has been or shall be set aside, is empowered and
required, upon application for that purpose made, to ascertain and deter
mine for what sum such property is liable to be assessed and by order or
decree to ﬁx the amount thereof, and the sum so ﬁxed shall be the amount
oi‘ assessment for which such property shall be liable, and the same shall
be and remain a ﬁrst lien or charge upon the property, and collectible in
the manner provided by law, the same as if such assessment had been
legally assessed in the ﬁrst instance by the city, town, township, commis
sion, board or other authority attempting to make, impose or levy the
same; and it shall be the duty of the court (upon application as afore
said) to make a proper assessment in all cases in which, at the time of
such application, there may lawfully be an assessment, and such court is
hereby given full and ample authority to make a lawful assessment; pro
vided, however, that this act shall not apply to any assessment or assess
ments that may have been or shall be set aside more than three years be
fore said application.
21. SEO. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent herewith he and
the same are hereby repealed, and this act shall take effect immediately.

Court to make
assessment.

Proviso.

Bepealer.

An act concerning proceedings to review judgments or other judicial
proceedings of any city judge, police court or other inferior court
had for or on account of alleged violation of city ordinances or
ordinances of city boards of health.
Approved March 28, 1895.

22. SEC. l. That in order to establish uniformity in the premises in all
the cities of this state, all judgments or other judicial proceedings of any
city judge, police court or other inferior court, had for or on account of
alleged violation of city ordinances or ordinances of city boards of health,
and whether had with or without a trial byjury, shall be reviewable by
writ of certiorari, in accordance with the rules and practice of the supreme
court and not otherwise. (a)
23. SEC. 2. 'l‘hat all acts and parts of acts, general or special, inconsist
ent herewith, be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act shall
take effect immediately. (1)
bury v. Branrhburg, l5 Vr. 595.
Herbert v. Cultu,'.’6 V1287.
ROCNTI v. Bemhojf. 28 V . 475. They will loci: into the fncison

n Hrlil/rnrl l0 township oﬂloers proceeding under lheacl to
remove cncronohrnenis on a highway.

oullrk v. Gm: ndykr, 9

'1.
In mvielwiplg l}h€bg{UC€€d‘lJ'l8? of (!0;lJ!Illi6Sl0l'lEl$ ap
n
to asccna n t e ne
ween ‘n on an Essex counties
t was held ihnl the Supreme court had power, by virtue oi‘ the
above ac}, lo reviifiy 1:190] foam. €'l‘\"l’htl)'llll:‘7‘ii to! Urllllon
.l"rr1'
h0Ill!7‘80B8f..1',
r.- .
uti sac ano app cnoeioa
judgment of the court of quarter sessions in n settlement case.
71m:k:Inzry v. 1lmnrhbur9,15 Vr. 595.

P. L. 1895, p. 764.
Judiclal proceed
ings oi’ city judge
or city courts may
be reviewed.

Repealer.

the facts where two usllces oi‘ the peace and two surveyors of
the hi.=.,*hways have etermined the question of encroachment
upon the public highway. l\'ru»bol:l v. Thylor, 17 Vr. 133. Som

(‘rust v. Hllll/Pl'lH)ll % V1-.5i'.‘.. Disputes as to the value oi
rambles cannot be determined on oertim-ari. Gmovrr v. Davis,
19 Vr. ll'Z.
Provisions of section ap ly to special stntuio
tribunals only.
South li'rumirlcIc v.
anhury, 23 Vr. 2 .
t

musi clearly appear that some injustice has been done before an
nssessiiient will be set aside. Siumions v. lﬁwrnic, 26 Vr. -I85.
((1) See Jlorgan. v. Orange, 21 Yr. 38!).

The court may review

ill On March Hth 1895, an act was approved (P. L. 1895, p. 296) in all respects like this act, excepting the title, that providin
only for revlewlng_lu(lgmenls had on account of Vl0ll\Il0l'l oi “city ordinances of city boards oi‘ health." The act of Marc
28111, 1895, was undoubtedly intended lo, and did, repeal this act.

3W

CHANCERY.

Chancery.
I. THE COURT \VHEN OPEN.

5-I. when enrolled by clerk's successor.
55. llow decrees signed after chancellor

1. Terms of court.
56.

2. Term loat, suits, &c., continued.
3. Court alwa_\--. open for certain purpoﬂes.
4. Final decrees in vacation.

II. SL'BI’t‘E.\'.-\ AND I’ROCE<S FOR APPEARANCE.
'0®_\I_O»_¢ﬁ Bill [U IN-‘ ﬁl‘\l “IOU.

Pr0(.‘(-ss indorsed, signed and sealed.
.\'atnes in one process.
. Notice to be added to subpoena.
. \\'heu ticket to issue.
10. Proceedinga when christian name of married woman can

goes out of office.
Effect of decrees. Lands not bound until abstract filed in
supreme court clerk's office.

57. Ainended by section loll.
58. Clerk to file and record notice.
.
59. Fees.
60. Proceedings in case of final decree for defendants, when a
/(8 ])¢’Iulr us has been filed.
61. Proceedings in case the chancellor orders the lands and
real estate to be discharged.

62. Fees of county clerk.
63. 1-Iﬂ'ect of decree to convey lands.
VIII. FINAL PRO(‘E\'S AND I)l_'TY AND LIABILITY
OF .SIIERll-‘F.

not be u.~ci-rtuined.
11. Married woman may appear, plead. &c.
12. I’I'l)(‘0t'*tlilli.{\‘ to be valid and binding.

64. Process after decree.
6-'1. Time of the jio |'i' fm'irt.!.
66. When sheriffto be amerced.

13. Amended by section l36.
1-i. \\'ho to serve process.
15. \\'ha't equivalent to service of snbpu-na.
I6. '1' Ln (ll.

Proviso.

67. Amercement ot'sherit1'in certain cases.
68. Further remedy to party aggrieved.
69. .\'heriiTnot returning process to be in contempt.

17. Amended by .sct‘tloli5 13-5, I35 and 167.

III. PRi)CEF.i)I.\'(ih' Atji.-\I.\'S'I‘ ».\'().\'-RF£IDE.\'TS.
18. Amended by section 72.
It). Amended by section 173.
2). Proof of matters in two preceding sections, before whom
made.
21. Enforcing decree against absent defendants.
22. Notice to non-resident officers of corporations.

In
I

. Amended by section l'.‘.i.

IX. PROCEEDINGS IX FORECLOSURE.
. Mortgaged premises may be sold under decree.
14
-I
~l-I90:0:
~|
gala-Gila.’-' Proceedings l]ll(I(£l‘jl'(’I'i fucius. Surplus money invested.
. Supermlms in case absent defendant enter appearance.
. Sale when the whole of mortgage money not due.

Stay of sale on appearance, and no plea. answer or de~
inurrer.
IV. PLEADINUS AND PROCEEDINGS AFTER RETURN
Oi.-‘ SL'BP(E.\'A.
23. Bill may call for answer without oath.
24. Amended by section 17-1.

3

25. Amended by section 175.
26. Frivolous demurrer.

27 .
28.
'29.
30.

Affidavit and certiﬁcate to plea or demurrer.
Decree pro crmfe..\'.s'0 in term or vacation.
Issue on plea.
Demurrer ﬁrst argued.

decree. May be made parties.
Fees for searches allowed.

X. I.\'JU.\'CTIO.t\’S.
Injunction after verdict or judgment in personal actions.
. In mixed actions.

‘Y:Iv . Remedy ifsecu rity insufficient.

31. Amended by section 176.
32. Costs on plea or demurrer.

33.
34.
35.
36.
37.

. Decree for excess of debt over proceeds of sale.
Satisfaction of decree to be entered.
Persons whose mortgages are not recorded, bound by

. Chancellor may refer questions.

Vvhen exceptions or replication must be ﬂied.
Rule to refer exceptions.
Costs on exceptions.
When second answer required.
\\’hen tnird £tl1:~'\\'er required, and costs.

Injunction before verdict.

Aﬂidavit required.

. Motion to dissolve after answer.
. Notice of special motions.
. Breach of injunction to stay waste punished.

. PRO(TEEDI.\'GS \\-'ITII RESPECT TO UNSATISFIED
J i.'[)(i.\IE.\"I‘S AT L.-\\\'.

38. Consequences if iusuilicient.
39. Cross-bill and answers.
40. When cause at ie.~sue.

. Bill for di-covery.
41. Person acquiring interest after bill

ﬁled may be madea
. Power to compel discovery.

party on petition.
42. Parties may be added either before or after ﬁnal decree.
V E\'I'DE.\'CE -I.\"i‘ERRf)(:A'I‘0RIES—EXAMINA’I‘It)N
()1-‘ \\'ITl\'I-‘..s'.’\.‘i:‘.-Sf.

. Debtor may be examined.

.
‘.
.
.

Order to prevent transfer ofthe debtor's property.
\\'itnesses.
\\'lu_-n receiver prnrlrnle lite appointed.
Dcpositions may be used at ﬁnal hearing.

43. Hearing on bill and answer.

44. Ititerrogntorio.-.~. to complainant.

XII. (iE.\'FIR.\L I’li0\'ISIOr\’S.

45. Examination ofwitnes.ses.

383 .'Rules

may be entered by coiisenl.
. (‘osts on illll0l)(illlL'lll.'~i.

46. Proceedings and evidence when printed.

. .\‘otict.-to be taken ofthe ﬁiin-.1 ofpieadingw.
VI.

SETTING

D()\\'.\' Til ii CAL’-SE AND TIIE
. Fees oi‘ xvitliesscs.

'

iii-1ARI.\‘t;.

7. \\’ben cause to be set down i'or hearing.
45. Aincndcd by section 137.

Proviso.

49. \\'hnl ii'dt.*i'i-mlnllt do not attend.

50. Papers used at hearing.

. Reference ofmatter of law to supreme court.
100. issue may be tried byjnry.
101. Compensation of officetw, &c., called in by chancellor.
l (TI. .\ione_\'s brought into court to be deposited in bank.
103. I’lllll-‘llltl€'tlI for contempt.
lot. Clerk to account for fines.

VII. I)E("RF.FI, ITS E1\'R()LL'.\IE'.\'T .-\'.\'Ii EFFECT.
51. I'll-:uii|i';<, &c., to be enrolled.

52. No enrollment if bill dismissed by consent.
53. Clerk, when to enroll.

10.3. (‘osts discretionary.
lOii. (‘ertnin ])l'U(‘(’Q‘l"lllZ§ aboiiehed.
tut. I Illice of register abolished.
lt)~. Certain rules, a\'c., not to be registered. I

373

CHANCERY.
109. Chancellor to make rules.
110. Executions may issue without revival of decree.
111. Injunction masters during absence of chancellor.
112. Chancellor may appoint trustee for receiving and manag

ing trust property in certain cases.
113. Chancellor may allow counsel fee instead of retaining fee
in taxed bill of costs.

XIII. APPEAL.
114. Appeal in what cases and when brought.
XIV. VICE CHANCELLOR, HIS DUTIES AND POVVERS.
115. Vice chancellor to be appointed by chancellor.
COUlJS€lOl"8lrl(\“'. Term of otilce.
116. Powers and duties.
117. Powers and duties.

To be a

147.
1-i8.
149.
150.
151.
152.

Fees for searches allowed in partition suits.
Counsel fee may also be allowed in such suits.
Amended by section 150.
Repealed by section 159.
Appointment and compensation of sergeants-at-arms.
Chancellor may order sale pending foreclosure suit where

mortgaged property is liable to deteriorate in value.
1-53. Payment of stenographer in causes before advisory master.
154. Gross sum in lieu of dower or curtesy may be paid out oi’
surplus on foreclosure.
155. Amended by section 167.
156. Repealer.
157. Rooms for chancellor, &c., to be provided in certain cities.
158. Repealer.
159. Repealer.
160. Appeal from

decree on bill to quiet title to be made in three

months.
118. May employ stenographic reporter.

119. Chancellor may divide state into districts.
120. Vice chancellor shall not practice law. Salary.
X \'. SU PPLEM ENTS.
1'21.

Persons making search shall certify on same amount of
expenses paid or incurred.
Chancellor may allow percentage on amount of decree as
counsel fee.

123.
121.
125.

Lu pendras. when ﬁled in register's oﬁlce.
Proceedings in case of death of sheriff.
Surplus money, when paid to executor.

1116.
127.
128.
lﬁi.

Amended by sections H9 and 150.
Amended by section 151.

Chancellor may refer cause to a master.
Powers and duties of the master.
130. May employ stcnographic reporter.
131. Chancellor may provide by rule to what masters references
shall be made.

161. Lia pmdcns. Notice of suit to be ﬁled in county clerk's
oﬂice.
162. Chancellor authorized to appoint two additional vice chan
cellors.
163. Powers, duties and compensation of vice chancellors.
16-i. Report and proof of all sales of land to be made.
165. Actions may proceed against heirs, devisees, &c., of un
known defendants, &c., in certain cases.
166. Vice chancellors have power to punish for contempt.
167. \\'hen security for costs required or solicitor held responsi
ble or suit stayed.

168. Judgment creditors may be paid out of surplus money
169.
170.
171 .
172.

133.
134.
135.
136.
137.

against.

Repealer.
Amended by sections 155 and 167.
Subprpnas. &c., how served and by whom.

\\'hat decree may be made if complainant does not attend

at the hearing.
138. Chancellorauthorized toappoint additional vice chancellor.
139. Powers, duties and compensation of vice chancellor.
1-I0. Amended by section 105.
Hi. Defendants, heirs, devisees, &c., bound by decree.
HZ. Proceedings for relief frotn such decrees.
1-I3. Repealed by section 159.
1-H. Appointment and compensation of sergeants-at-arnis.
1~i.'a i)i~ciiai".._:r- of lien oflis pnuhns when decree has been paid

In certain mses security

may be required.
174.

Reduction of fees in certain foreclosure cases.

Repealer.
Non-resident defendants, how notiﬁed. Decree pro crmfesso

173. Non-residents bound by decree.

Cliaiicellor may make general rules for the taking of evi
deuce.

arising from sales ofland.
Repealer.
Salary of vice chancellors.

-u

1 1 O.

Plea or demurrer, when to be ﬁled.
Answer, when to be ﬁled.

76. If plea or demurrer overruled, answer must be ﬁled.
177. Defendant's appearance does not stay execution.
179. Repealer.
179. Proceedings where it cannot be ascertained whether absent
defendant is alive.or if dead, names and residences oi‘
heirs, &c.. are not known.
Such
defendants, heirs, &c., bound by m-cit-rs and decrees.
190.
181. Proof, costs, &c., as in case of absent defendants.
1-S2. Repealer.
183. Clerk to receive no compensation

for docketing, &c.,

papers.
181. Clerk to receive no compensation in corporation cases.
XV 1. M I.\'CEL1..A.\'EO1'.~'.

or suit settled.

146. Stctiogrnpher'S services, how paid for.

I.

. Counsel fee awarded to complaiuauton bill ofinterpleader.

The court when open.

An act respecting the court of chancery.
Revision-Approved March 27, 1575.

P. L.
"
“
"

"
“
“

1S4-'», p. 9'21.
18.31. p. 317.
1-Q52. p. 256.
1.-.»'>-5, p. 55.
lS5ti, p. S2.
l.\ii-i, . 70-i.
1-WIT,
ism, p, S78.
ltili.

1. That the court of cliaiiccry shall hold, annually, at Trenton, three
stated terms, commencing on the ﬁrst Ttiesclay of February, the third
Tnesday of .\iay, and the third Tuesday of October, respcct.ivel_v, and such
special terms, at the same or any other place as the chancellor shall from
time to time appoint. ((1.)
2. Tliat if the said court shall not sit or be opened at any of the said
terms, whether stated or special, the writs and process then returnable.
and the bills, suits, pleadings, and proceedings depending before the said
court, shall be continued, of course, till the next term, and so from term to

“"
..-1868, p. F400.
1sii9, p. 1033.

“

1r~73, p. 1-1.48,

1870. p. 40, 4'...
isn, p. 112.

1.~71, p. 127.
as, 116, 123.

Terms of court.

Term lost. suits,
&c.. continued.

term. until the court shall sit.

3. That the said court of chancery shall be considered as always open
for the granting of injunctions, writs of ne exeat to prevent the departure
of defendants from the state, and other writs and process heretofore usually
(a) See Rona; or Cmuwcr-zar, Sec. 1.

Court always open
for certain pur
ses.
. L. 18-52, p. 256.

374

Final decrees in
vacation.
P. L. 15.52, p. W.

CHANCERY.
granted in vacation, and for the return of writs of subpoena to answer, and
for making orders for the appearance of absent or concealed defendants,
and that such orders may be to appear and plead, answer or demur upon
any day either in term time or vacation; and in default of such plea,
answer, or demurrer, a decree pro confesso may be taken on any day
either in term time or vacation. (a)
4. That in all cases where a decree pro confesso may he taken in vacation,
it shall be lawful to make all orders of reference and other proceedings to
perfect a ﬁnal decree, and to make a ﬁnal decree in vacation. (b)

II.
Bill l0 be ﬁrst
ﬂied.

Procms indorsed,
signed and sealed.

Names in one
process.
Notice to be added
to subpoena.
P. L. 1867, p. 166.

'When ticket to
issue.

Subpaana and process for appearance, and how served.

5. That no subpu.-ua or other process for appearance shall issue out of
the court of chancery, except in cases to stay waste, until after the bill
shall have been ﬁled with the clerk of the court. (_1,-)
6. That every subpoena, process of sequestration, writ of execution, or
other writ or process, shall be issued by a solicitor, or by the clerk, at the
instance of the party, and, before the service or execution thereof, shall be
subscribed or iudorsed with the name of the said solicitor or party, and
also signed and sealed by the said clerk.
7. That the names of all defendants in any suit, who are resident in the
same county, shall be inserted in one subpoena or process. (d)
8. That to every subpoena ad respondendum, a notice shall be added that
the defendant is not required to appear at Trenton in person, at the return
day, but, if he intend to make a defense, it is only necessary for him to
answer, plead, or demur to the bill within the time required by law. (e)
9. That where a bill shall be ﬁled on any mortgage, or instrument in
the nature thereof, for a foreclosure or sale of the premises contained in
the same, or any part thereof, and the complainant shall deem it expedient
to make any person a defendant therein, other than the mortgagor, his
heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, such complainant shall, with
the subpoena to be issued against such other defendant, cause to be issued
a ticket in writing, shortly making known for what cause he is subptsnaed
to answer; which ticket shall be, by the ofﬁcer serving the subpoana, left

Proceedings when
christian name of
married woman
cannot be ascer
tained.
lb.

Married woman
may appear and

plead, dtc.
P. L. 1873, p. 88.

Proceedings to be
valid and binding.
Ib.

with the said defendant at the time of such service, and no charge be made
therefore.
10. That in any suit hereafter to be commenced in the court of chancery
wherein it shall be thought necessary or proper to make any married
woman a. party, and it shall appear by the aﬂidavit of the complainant,
his or her solicitor, annexed to the bill of complaint, and ﬁled therewith,
that, notwithstanding due inquiry has been made therefore, the christian
name of such married woman cannot be ascertained, it shall and may be
lawful and suﬁicient to designate any such married woman by the name
of her husband, with “ Mrs." preﬁxed thereto.

11. That it shall and may be lawful ibr any married woman so desig
nated in any suit, to appear and plead, answer or demur, either by the
name by which she shall have been made a party, or by her own christian
name, but if by the latter, she shall also state the name by which she was
made a party.
12. That any and all proceedings had or taken in any suit against any
married woman, who shall have been made a party as aforesaid, shall be

as valid, binding and conclusive, in all respects, as they would have been
had she been made a party by her own christian name.
13. [This section amended by Sec. 136, post]

(ll) The fuel iimt asuhpcena ml 1-mpomlrnrlum is returnuble on
a legal ll()lifi{\_\' is not grounri for selling it aside. Jfinnry v.
Emrr]/. l0 SI1'H'. 3H. A writ of m: <r1(!!- may be granted on
allidnvits llllhll: before a suit is pending in court between the
purllcs. (‘lurk v. (.'Iur/v, 6 ]1irIr. 404.

(fl) son Run:-ts or Ciusmwnr. Secs. 21 24. ‘.37, on, l66.
(r) Ii‘ the issuing ofthe subprvna heiore lliv hill be promptly

brought to the notice oi‘ lhc court, it will he sci wide as illl-gully

issued, but ll is a purely technical irregularity and iswalved by
entering an appearance.

(,‘ruu'eIt v. Bola/arch 1 C. 1-I. Gr. 458.

A llll5ll\l(i' in aniedmlug a subpoena, when in fact it was not
issued be-lore tiling the bill, may be corrected.
ll'1'.s!1‘(/‘ti, 10 ('. L‘. fir. 302.
(11) see llrr.r;s or (:u.\r:cr:n\', Secs. 51, 52.
gr) See Jfimuy v. Hun ry, 10 Slew. 339.

Dinrmore v.

CHANCERY.

375

14. That it shall be the duty of the sheriff or coroner, as the case may
require, of any county in this state, to whom any subpoena, order, attach
ment, process of sequestration, writ of execution, or other process issuing
out of the court of chancery, shall be directed or delivered, to serve or
execute the same, and to make return thereof at the time and place therein
mentioned, which shall be ﬁled by the clerk. (a)
15. That a written appearance in any suit in chancery, or a written
acknowledgment of the service of any subpoena to answer, signed by a

Who to serve
process.

tvhat equivalent
to service of sub
poena.

defendant, or his or her solicitor, shall have the same force and effect as

if such defendant had been regularly served with a subpoena to answer,
by the sheriff or any other proper officer; provided, such signature of the
party be veriﬁed by afﬁdavit. (b)

16. That no writ of ne exeat shall be granted, unless satisfactory proof

Ne exeat

be made to the chancellor that the defendant designs quickly to depart
from this state;(e) and, if granted, the chancellor, vice chancellor, or an

injunction master, shall direct to be indorsed thereon the sum in which
the party shall give bond, with surety or sureties, being freeholders in this
state. (ti)

'

17. [This section amended by Secs. 135, 155 and 167, post]

III. Proceedings against non-residents.

18. [This section amended by Sec. 172, post]
19. [This section amended by Sec. 173, p0sl._]
20. That the proof of the matters required in the next two preceding
sections may be taken before any judge of any court of record, or any
notary public in any state or territory of the United States, and in any
foreign state or country, before any notary public or any minister, secre

Proof of matters
in two preceding

sections, before
whom made.
Ib.

tary of legation, charge d’aﬁ"aires, consul, or vice consul of the United
States there being; the solicitor shall be entitled to one dollar and ﬁfty
cents for every notice served or mailed as aforesaid.

21. That when a decree shall be made against an absent defendant, the
chancellor, before issuing process to compel the performance of such
decree against such absent defendant, may, if he deems it equitable so to
do, require the complainant to give bond, with such security and in such
sum as he may direct, to abide such decree or order touching the restitution
of the estate and effects of such absent defendant, or the repayment of
any sum of money which the complainant may receive by virtue of such
decree, but which

shall afterwards

Enforcing decree
against absent

defendant.

be made to appear, as hereinafter

provided, not to have been due and owing to him; and in case no such
security shall be given, no process or execution shall issue to compel the
(a) It is not essential that it be served by the sheriffor coro
ner. It inay be served by a private person, but in such case an
affidavit of the time and manner of service must be made, and
on its return a rule taken on defendant to plead. li~’e.~:t v. -S'1m'!h,
1 Hr. Ch. .'lI'i9. J1: mlcrson V. Ilopptr, Hril. .DI{). 229. Upon a
motion to (|l.\§()l\'6 an injunction on the ground that the sub
ptena has not been served, the sheriii"s return to the suhpiena
is conclusive. and cannot be contradicted by affidavits, unless
eoliin-iion be shown between the sheriff and the Cﬁllllllilillillll or
his !*0liCii0l'. (.brr_l/ V. I-’oorIir:'¢'s.l Gr. (.'h.-5. See Rmulolph v.

Ila/3/, 1 C‘. E. Gr. 3l4. The sherii"l"s return “served " upon the
subpoena, is presumptive proof of the service of the notice
required by the ztsih rule. Bell v. rminore, i0 C’. E. Gr. 104.
Jluljorrl v. Rrilly, 5 Stew. 4l9. A subpieua was inadvertently
made returnable on Sunday. It was duly st-rve<.l ten days before
the return day, and no answer filed or appearance entered.
Held, that the return day could be ﬂil1('.‘l"ltl(-(l,Sﬂ as to make it
returnable the following Monday. Jllcl-.‘my v. Ti-uslus, 11 Stew.
4:21.».

130. It must appear by positive proof that there lsacertain
sum actually due, except in account, when the proofnuist show
some sum due. a"'l](l(.‘.l)UItOlly/l v. Gaynor. 3 C. 1-,‘. Hr. 249. The
affidavits to obtain a discharge oi‘ the writ. must be equally ex

plicit.

Jllynr v. .'l!_l/¢1',ll) C. E. (Jr ‘.28. In ll. divorce case the

allidavits cannot be made until after the pet liion is filed. By
lumll v. By/lumll, 2 Hal. Ch. 28. Upon a bill filed for alimony
only, the court may make an order for ti. m: run! before the
alimony is fixed. Yule v. l'nle,2b'l0t'/r.138. lint ifit appears

that the proceedings are not instituted in good iaiih for the pur
pose of obtaiiiiiig it divorce, but for the purpow of conipellin
the husband to support the wife. it m: mm! preiioiisly i.\~5i|(_1
will he discharged. It'll-i-ii/lira v. Ji'irri,umi. 2 ﬂ!r'C'iIrl. l-i7. The
ailldavit of the wife is snliicieut to obtain the order. Yule v.
)'ul.v.", 2 Stock. 133. it should slate that the defendant intends

going abroad, and may in some cases be sworn to on informa

in a divor.-e Mill, is not evidence of a ii-aai service to give the
court jurisdiction where the defendant does not appear. There
should be evidence of the service of it copy of the petition also.
,$‘!0nr v. .%'IonP, l0 I)‘. E. fir. -l-l5. Ifilt-l'i-iniant nCkno\\'le(l2e§ ser
vice, and neglects to plead. answer or deinur, after a rule for

tion and belief. lb. lint it mere appri-liension ofahandoiiineiit
is not enough. .»inwlm/z v. Anshnlz, I C‘. E Ur. 10.‘. It is not
necessary that the defendant be a resident of the state, or
actually in the stale. when the order is made. Pm-Inr v.
]'!l!‘k'7'. 1 Reds. ill-3. Jlfurﬂmionph v, (-'a_i/1ior,3 C 1;'.(ir. ‘J49.
Even if tlie court feels constrained to iiiselnii';;i- the writ it inay
require security to abide the decree. In, ,\|i|ili(';iliuil iodis
charge the writ llill.\i be made beforeihc (‘;lll\‘t' is lit)li('i-tl for
ﬁnal hearing. .11.‘!/¢=r\'. JV:/hr. .'\'n.r. 386. A di-fendaiit arrested,

that purpose has been served on hini,a decree will not be

and in cii.~4tod_v under a nw ("|'!H'- ui:i_v, before answer, apply for

ordered against him, but a rule allowed that he answerwiihin a
limited time, or sliow cause why an attachment should not be
awarded against him. llrnderaon v. Hopptr, Jlnl. Dig. 22). See
Cures: v. fhlfrir. 2.51mi/h. ‘M4.

the discharge ofihe writ on ailidaviis. (‘to-y v Pm-u. 12.5‘/I H‘, 3,
Aa to Slalemeiits oi‘ defendant nifordintz ?~lllll(‘lt‘lll i.:roii_iid t0
issue a we rrmt, see Cary v. Gar‘?/. 12 .S‘Im1~. 20. See Rule 192.

it.) -tn acknowledgment of service of a copy ofihe citation

fr) A writ of rir ¢-2-rut will not ixsue unless there is a debt due
from the defendant to the complainant, or llllll-ss the complain
ant is entitled to an account. Willianis V. li'7lli'unis, '2 Gr. Ch.

(ll) \\'rit oi‘ ne Iirriil declared void for service on Sunday,
and bond given thereon ordered to be canceled.

ccircr v. Bowman, 12 U. B. Gr. 27-3.

Jcwtlt, Re

CHANCERY.

376
Chancellor may
require bond, or

performance of the decree so made against such absent defendant, but the
estate and effects of such absent defendant may, by order of the chancellor,

sequestration may

be sequestered, and remain under the direction of the chancellor, to abide
be ordered.
Time within
which defendant
may have relief.

such order as he shall think just and proper respecting the same; and in
case any such absent defendant, against whom any decree shall be made
as aforesaid, his heirs, devisees, executors, administrators, or assigns, as
the case may require, shall, within six months after notice in writing be
given to him or them of such decree, or within three years after such
decree, in case no notice as aforesaid shall be given, petition the chancellor
touching the matter of such decree, and pay, or secure to be paid, such
costs as the chancellor shall think reasonable to order and direct, then

May ﬁle bill.

When decree
oonﬂrmed.

Notice to non
resident oﬂiceis
of corporations.
P. L. 1868, p. 802.

and in such case the person or persons as aforesaid, so petitioning, may be
permitted to appear and answer the complainant’s bill, and thereupon such
proceedings shall be had as if such absent defendant had appeared in due
season and no decree had been made;(a) or such absent defendant may,
within the times aforesaid, ﬁle his bill of complaint in the said court, for
an account and settlement of the amount which was really and truly due
to the complainant at the time of the decree,.and to compel the said com
plainant to refund and repay what he may have wrongfully recovered and
received, together with the interest from the time of the receipt thereof,
with costs of suit, the former decree against such absent defendant not
withstanding; but in case no petition shall be presented, or bill ﬁled, as
before provided for, within six months from the time notice as aforesaid
shall be given, due proof thereof being made, or within three years from
the date of the decree, the decree hall he deemed and adjudged to be
conﬁrmed; which conﬁrmation shall have relation to the time of making
said decree; and the decree shall be executed and performed as in cases
where the defendant had duly appeared.
22. That whenever any bill shall he ﬁled against any corporation of this
state, and it shall be made to appear by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the
chancellor, that none of the oﬁicers and directors of such corporation are
resident in this state, or that none of them can be found within this state,

to be served with process of subptrna, such corporation shall be deemed
and taken to be an absent defendant; and that such proceedings and
decree may be had against such corporation as in this act is provided in
the case of absent defendants.

§_ §' ZIV. Pleadings and proceedings after return ot subpoena.
Bill may call for
answer without

j |

23. That the complainant may, in any bill in chancery, pray that the
defendant answer without oath, in which case the answer need not be

oath.

P. L. ism, p. ma.
Amended.

sworn to, and the allegations and statements therein, whether responsive
or not, shall not be evidence against the complainant, except on a motion
to grant or dissolve an injunction, on which motion the statements and
denials in an answer duly sworn to, shall have the same effect as hereto
fore; (I1) and when an answer without oath is so prayed, the complainant
may annex to the bill interrogatories, founded on statements in the bill,
and the same or any part thereof may be addressed to all or any of the
defendants, and each defendant to whom such interrogatories are addressed,

shall answer the same. under oath or aﬁirmation, fully, directly, and
rcsponsively, conﬁning the answer to the interrogatory proposed; and
such answers shall be annexed to the answer to the bill, be ﬁled tlierewith,
and be liable to be excepted to, as a part of the answer; and so far as
responsive to such interrogatories, shall have the same effect as the respon
sive allegations in answers required to be sworn to; and any defendant

omitting to answer any such interrogatory directly and fully may be com
(ai An ahsentdefendnnt has a right, on showings meritorious
defense to an order permitting him to appear and answer the

compla nant's blii, provided he makes his application within
the time limited by this section. (.tn1.<0lidu(e¢I 1-.'t¢cl1-iv $101-one
Cb. v. Atlantic Thu! 00., 5 Div-Ir. 93.
Lb) Where the bill prays an answer without oath,theenswer,

though sworn to, is not evidence for defendant, though any
facts admitted are conclusive against him. Hm-1' v. Little, 5 C.
L‘. Gr. 4-I8. Swert v. Ihrkw, 7 C’. E. Gr. 458. If sworn to, the
answer is evidence on s. motion to dissolve the injunction
although not on the hearing of the cause. Walker v. Hill, 6 C.
E. Gr. 191.

CIIANCERY.

377

pelled so to do, or the allegations in the bill upon which the interrogatory
is founded, shall be taken as admitted to be true, and a decree made
thereon accordingly ; but nothing in this section shall aii'ect any suit pend
ing on the sixtlt day of March,one thousand eight hundred and sixty
seven, or any suit to be brought upon a claim for which a suit in equity
was then pending. (a)

24. [This section amended by Sec. 174, post]
25. [This section amended by Sec. 175, post.]
26. That when a demurrer shall have been ﬁled which shall not be
actually argued, or which, upon argument, appears to the chancellor to
be frivolous, or intended for the purpose of delay, the satne shall be over
ruled as frivolous, and the chancellor shall not grant in such suit any
order extending the time to answer herein limited, unless, upon full
examination of the circumstances of the ease, it shall be made to appear
to him that evident injustice would be done without such extension, and
then he shall grant such extension only as may be absolutely necessary,
with proper diligence, to prepare such answer.

27. That every plea or demurrer in chancery shall have annexed thereto
the aﬂidavit of the defendant or defendants ﬁling the same, or his or their
agent in the suit, that the same is not interposed for delay, but it1 good
faith; and also the certiﬁcate of counsel that he has perused the complain
ant's bill, and that such plea or demurrer is well founded in point of law;
and every plea or demurrer ﬁled without such aﬁidavit and certiﬁcate may
be treated as a nuilit_v.
~

28. That if the defendant shall not ﬁle his plea, demurrer or answer
within the time hereby limited, or that granted by the court, the bill of
complaint shall be taken in term time or vacation, as confessed against
such defendant, and such decree made thereon as by the court shall be

Frivolous
demurrer.
Ib.

Aﬂidavit and oer

tiﬁcate to plea or
demurrer.

Decree pro con
fesso in term or

‘vacation.

deemed equitable and just; or the chancellor may, at his discretion, order

the complainant to produce documents and witnesses to substantiate and
prove the allegations in the bill of complaint; or the chancellor may
examine the complainant on oath or affirmation, to ascertain the truth of
the allegations in the said bill; and such decree shall be tnade in either
case as the chancellor shall think equitable and just; ]>'r0t-z'a'ed, that to
prevent fraud or mistake, the chancellor may. at any time, upon notice
and sufiicient cause shown, grant a rule staying proceedings and to open
such decree. (h)
29. That when the cotnplainant conceives the plea to he good, though
not true, he may reply to and take issue upon it, and proceed as in case of

Issue on plea.

an answer. (0)
((1) To entitle defendant to the advantage of his answer under
oath. the answer must have been in a suit pending at the time
of the passage of the act, and in reference to the same clnlm.
The /'mnd€n and .-imho_t/ Ruihoml Cu. v. iS'lru'urf. ~i C. I-.'. I-‘r. 3H.
Where the bill calls for an answer under oath. and it is given
directly responsive to the hill, the burden is cast on the com
plainant to prove the charge in his bill by more than one wit
ness, or by the evidence of one witness corroborated by facts
and eircnnistatices equivalent to another witness. But where
the -lefendaut does not rely on his answer alone, but offers him

selfas a witness. he refutes himself by his own evidence, and
circumstances added nngv overcome the answer. ﬂforris v.
ll'hi!r, 9.\'1ru'. ."'l-i.
tn) The only rieht to make a decree against a defendant who
does not appear is derived from this statute. Before this, the
party (‘nillti be compelled to appear and answer. but no decree
could be made until he did appear. Brinkrrlmgf v. Franklin, 6
T’. H. Hr. .116. See (_r'l'tV(Ut-S V. .311‘.-‘lfurtry. I (‘. E. (Jr. 468. A
decree pi-n run. signed after the time for answeringhas expired
is regular, though an order for further time to answer be signed
and lilo-(l on the same day. If it appear that the answer con
tains no valid ground of defense, the decree will not be opened.
Enu 1-_u v. Jlowning, 2 Betta. 59. The decree may be taken with
out notice, and as of course, unless itappear that the adverse

party will be prejudiced thereby. Oak!’-_u v. 0’-\'n'U. i Gr. ('h.
287. ."~'ee Rule 27. If the defendants obtain i'urther time to
l\ll"i\\'6.'l', they cannot set up an inequitable defense, such as
n.-ury. I11 mrrv. .\’Imu', 4 Hal. (Th. 355. Vrnul(*rt-4’n- \’. Jfnlrfmtlt.
7 /.'. I-.'. Hr. 555. (bllard v. -S‘mi!h, 2 B1 as. 43. Mm-xh v. Lu.~'ItH'.

2 Hum, '_‘,$'\_
(1 1-;_ 1;,-_4:;9_

Chmpion V, Ifillg, I ,1[('C(t1'L 2'19.

Hill V. (blur, 10

st»? Rnbrrlx v. Bir;,¢.<.¢, 5 0. E. Gr. 139.

Or that a

corporation in tnalrimr a loan to secure which their mortgage
was Riven, were acting ullrn t'l'1‘f‘.¢. Third Aw". Sm-inyrs Bunk v.
llimurk. 9 F’. I-J. Hr. 26. Parties must take notice ofthe acts and
decrees of the court regularly made.
Hill)/Fr v. Scltcnrlr, 2
,1!»/_m~l.890. A decree will be open three years after its entry

forthe purpose of correcting an obvious mistake in the master s
report. Miller v. Bualt/orlh,3 Gr. Uh. 174. If the party apply

ing has not been in Inches. 'Wi!hammn v. -S‘;/X-rs,2 Bros. 182. Or
where a decree has been made unjustly against n ril.{l|l or inter
est that has not been heard orpmtecteri. B|‘0'nl."Ir'/u_i__!f v. 1"rmt/t‘
lin, 6 (’. I-.‘. Gr. 335. Or a bill may he ﬁled to correct the decree.
li‘htl/rmorr. v. (mm-, 3 Gr. ('h. 438. A decree was opened on
application ofa subsequent morti.'a,e<-e to charge the first mort
gal-gee. who was in possession ofthe premises, with rent. ﬂfoore
v 1)r'{/rm:-, i Hut. Ch. 346. ()n the gmuud ofsurprise and sacri
fice. Smilh v. Alton, 7 C. E. Hr. 572. Where the defense is
meritorious, anti the party has not been heard, through mis
take, accident or surprise.
Embury v. Bu-_omimu, 9 ('. B. (Jr.
22.8. But not if he has had an opportunity of making his
defense and neglected it. Jlltllrr v. Iiild, 3 Stoclr. 2-3. Nor
where the only allegation ofsurprlse is that defendant is unne
quainted with the proceeding.-.of the court. ("urp¢'n//r v. Morn
more, ‘.2 Jf¢'Um'I. 123. Nor on the unsupported aiiidavlt oi the
defendant that com plainant verbally agreed not to prosecute
the action. Mm-sh v. l,nshn',2 Bms. 253. .\'or,five years after
entry and four yearsalterit came to defendant's knowletitre,
upon the ground of his pecuniary inability to make the applica
tion at an earlier day. Robcrlson v. Jlillrr, 2 Hr. Ch. -I51. Nor,
where a sheriff retums a subptena " served," upon an affidavit
of defendant not denying that he was served with a ticket, but
merely aasertimz that he was served with an ordinary subpo-na.
llfulforrl v. R1-i!l_1/, 5 Slew. 419. A decree so made may be
opened at any subsequent time to prevent fraud or mistake.
(.Yn|..'lOlI(l(|/I'll Electric Slonrgr ('0. V. Aflanhr Trust (_‘o.. 5 I)ick. 93.

(c) Ifthe plea should be decided not to be good. the defend
ant must answer the bill; if it is sustained, the complainant
must reply to it. When he does reply and takes is-ue, the
determination of that issue is final. I~'!u_u,nv. Bonnr!/.3-S‘lork.
82. The issue is not upon the mere technical form of the plea,
but the sufficiency of its averments to sustain the offense.
Jllvrker v. Jllttrsh, Snr. 198. Ilrmisort v. JﬁltIt.\'Inl, 1 (I E. Hr. 112.
If defendant has a substantial defense which cannot avail him
under his plea from inaccuracy of pleading. he may claim the
full beneﬁt of such defense by his answer. Jlullhcuvs v. Roberts,
1 Gr. Ch. 838. See Rules 13, ill.

378

CHANCERY.
30. That if the defendant ﬁle a demurrer and answer, the complainant
shall not proceed on the answer until the demurrer has been argued or
disposed of.

Deinurrer ﬁrst
arirued.

31. [This section amended by Sec. 176, post]
32. That if the plea or demurrer be allowed, the complainant shall pay

Costs on plea or
demurrer.

costs, and if overruled, the defendant shall pay them. (a)
Vvhen exceptions
or replication

must be ﬂied.

Rule to refer
exceptioiis.

Amended.

Costa on
exceptions.

33. That the complainant shall ﬁle exceptions or a replication, or set
down a cause for hearing upon bill and answer within thirty days after
the expiration of the time limited or granted for ﬁling the answer, or on
failure thereof his bill shall be dismissed with costs, unless good cause be
shown to the contrary. (b)
34. That when exceptions shall be ﬁled to an answer, a rule may be
entered, of course, with the clerk, either in term time or in vacation, to
refer the same to a master of the court, who shall decide and report upon
them within thirty days after they are ﬁled; but an appeal from such
report shall be allowed to the chancellor, who shall hear and determine the
same at the next term or at such time as the chancellor, upon the applica
tion of either party, shall appoint. (0)
35. That the complainant, if his exceptions be overruled, shall pay costs
to the defendant; and the defendant, if his answer be adjudged insufﬁ

'\Vhen second

answer required.

When third
answer required,
and costs.

Oonsequences, if
insufficient.

cient, shall pay costs to the complainant. (d)
36. That when an answer shall be adjudged to be insufiicient, the defend
ant shall file a second or further answer within thirty days after such adj u
dication, or on failure thereof the said bill shall be taken as confessed, and
such proceeding had thereon as if the ﬁrst or original answer had not been
ﬁled within the limited or granted time. (0)
37. That if such second or further answer shall be adjudged to be
insufficient, the defendant shall pay double costs, and shall ﬁle a third or
further answer within twenty days after such adjudication, or on failure
thereof the said bill shall be taken as confessed, and such proceedings be
had thereon as if the ﬁrst or original answer had not been ﬁled within the
limited or granted time as aforesaid.
38. That if such third or further answer shall be adjudged to be instilli
cient, the defendant shall pay treble costs; and in such case further time

Cross-bill and
answers.

to answer shall not be allowed, btit the said bill shall be taken as confessed,
and such proceedings be had thereon as if the first or original answer had
not been ﬁled in due time.
39. That if a cross-bill be exhibited, the defendant to the ﬁrst bill shall
answer thereto before the defendant to the cross-bill shall be compelled to
answer such cross-bill. (5/)

(a) The court has no discretionary power in the matter of
costs on a deniurrer. J!"-/i-.1 v. (iimpbcll, 4 C. E. lir. 184. See
AIl(ll‘l‘|l‘! V. Furtl, ‘Z 1101. (Th. -188.
(hji Exceptions to ri.-port of commissioners in partition will
not lie. Theyare limited toiiiniwers and the reports of iiiasters.
Brnllcy v. Long Dock (b. 1 1!cC'm'!.-350. It is the practice, upon
ﬁling ii report on e.\'ct-ptions to an answer. to takeun order that
the same shall he contirined, ufiless cause he shown in eight
days after service ol‘ the same.
ll?!» r v. ll'ei(loi_a, 3 C. E. Gr.
39. The exceptions may tie heard by the chancellor; the rule to

the evidence, irrespective of the master's opinion.

.Hhlnirs, 3 1.‘. 1:‘. Gr. l~ll.

Ifolmn v,

But the iiiiisti-i"s report is eiititled t0

great weight and will not he set aside where there is conﬂicting
lt.'hllIll()|l_\'. Jb. Jlaulcnbrrk V. ('ronkrq;Iir, 8 ('. 1;‘. 1;,-_ -103,
.\'ooii¢-_Ii~.snn v. Brurre, 1 slorlt-. 659. The master must not ex
ceed the reference in his cxaniinatioii and report. Slonmglon
Savnigs Bunk V. I)(ll‘i.1, 2 .’lli-(furl. 3|. 1-’elri'rk V. /IiiIic1'o_/!,5
(.‘. 1}. Gr. 198. S0 fl further reference may he ordered and
additional evidence oﬂ‘eri-d if the master fail io report on a
iiiati-rial matter. Dulrh Church V. Smock, S01‘. H8. Or where

refer them toanittster is only tor his relief. Clmulm um! A mboy

the report is based on erroneous views.

Ruilrorid (h. \'. -S"rnv|/‘I. 4 ('. B. lir. 343. \\'licrc nii answer i8
filed h_v :in_\' ilt‘rt’llll;llll. there can be no reference toa iiiaster
without st-ttiiie the (.‘1lU\t* down for hearing, or Withuiit [[19 mu.

5 (‘. L‘. Hr. Hi
But if no further directions are ll£‘t‘L*8.'~‘I\f_\‘ an
error of the niii-ter as to the Value of certain propert_v. mu_v be
corrected without any further refereiice. jIlI.\f(H'l. V. ('m.wI_i/. l
Jllr-Purl. 321) zllorris V. '1'"!//vi‘. U U. E. Hr. 132. C/mnrr V.
7i-»,./1», 3 I-‘r. Oh. 173. If exceptions are ﬁled to the inu~ter's
report the coniplaiiinnt in:i_v set the cause down ])I‘t'plll‘ﬂlnf_\' to
further directions or a liiial decree, and. ll the e.\ct-ptioiis he
overruled.ina_v aet a final decree at the term iit which the
cause l8 50 set iio\\'ii. Ji’rumlu_m' V (w'oMl_/'rlloui, ll Jlul. Uh. 513.
ﬁlorriv v. 'l'o_i//or, 8 1'. E. I-'1-.1Iit. Exceptions to an answer
must be .sii.:iied by counwl. Jlilrhmrlr v. 1:’/Index, 15 51¢ u-. -I95.
(di \\'lit-re the PXt‘l'|)llHll'4 are bttslﬂllletl in part and over
rtilctl iii part, neither piirty can have costs.
Cmmlen and
Amlmll R. R. (*0. \’. -8'/1 uwiil, 4 ('. 12'. I-'1. 2130.
(wt \\'here to a hill tor a forecl0~iire.an answer was ﬁled
R(*lllllL'|l[)(l(*fr'(‘ltiflllli?l"ll1(‘lllllI‘l3l;tQl‘<l|)fPllll§£‘S. exceptions
taken to purl of the iiiiswt-r, and the exceptioiis $ll§lA1lIlPtl, the
(‘lHl\'P .~hoiiid have hi-on wt down on the argiiniciit list, and a
decree pin rmi. eiiti-n-ii for want of ti second answer, might

sent of the iii-ti-iiilaiit who filed the answer. "'I'I{I,I[\".4‘{(.'1\.l'(|ll,
2 Born, 2.39,
Ym/ny \'_ Young/, '1. C. B. (Jr. 161. I'll:/niifw V. ]{(ty
rm‘/i'.l Hr. ('h. H13. If the HIHWQI‘ is evasive, orit there is no
[l|]\\\Pl' to any of the inaterial facts stated in tin-hill. and no
l‘t';\‘~'Hll1l.\‘~l'{ll4'tl for not niii-ii\‘eriii*..' them. it will be considered as
no it
iiiiswer.
the court
\\ ill older
it taken
the llll'.\. must
But
ill
be an and
'¢lll.‘i\\'t.‘l'.
llU\\'t'\'('l‘
di-ll-ct‘ive,
the from
coinpliiiiiaiit
either file ('.\L‘i'pll(lIl3 or ll rt-plicui ion, or Set down tlic caiisc for
liearinz on bill and answer. Trot-¢-rt V. 1:o.t-, 1 4‘I!‘('IH'(. 2-‘)4.
I).-fi-i"t~' iii iin answer lift‘ not ciiied by not excepting to it.
1)mIy/it// \'. llouo/ill/, fl Hol. I'll ‘I37.
tr-i A (l(‘Illl7‘7‘rI' c.iiiiiot be lili-cl. Trﬂtvrs V. R/M‘. l -‘\!r("rirf.
‘Z.'»i. I~Ivt-i-ptloiis to a iiiasit-r's re-purl must be filed within eight
il.i_\'s.
Tm/for v, '1‘/iimuiw, l Hi. I’/i. 106. The rs-port tit‘ a

llltt\l('l' on t"((‘(‘[)lll)ll~i to an answer is tiroutzlit liefow the chan
cellor. not by l‘X(‘!'[)llllll\‘i In the iii:i~ter‘.~i reporl.l1tit h_\'1\|l|lt‘lll.
||'Iuvlvr \'_ 1-1» rlmoml, ‘,1 Ilul I’/i I53,
ll’!-In r V. ll'r'tIl1iI_u.-‘i 1'. Ff.
lv'l‘..'iil. But ll'l't"_'l|lllI'Illi"\' in tho proci-edinr."~ "T the iiiii~ti-r. its
8 i‘ei'ii-zil to iuljoiirii an i-imiiiiiiution to aitlord (lt'rt’llil;llll nii
opporiiiiiitv to |Il‘llilll(‘P \\'ltio»~_~v-.s,i1iii<t he taken llil\'lllllllL't‘ of
by motion to MP‘ :‘\ltlP the rt-port, lmna/we v. Jlrrr-(Iv ~'. ll 1'. I-.'.

have heen set aside.

Hlmnvll v. Ark: rnum,

I)'I?rimi V. }l~!_n'.~h,7 C. E. (Jr. -I78. See

l’u/irlrriwr V. Jlolcomh, 7 (I 1.‘. fir. 558.
tot The -'lIl‘l\\'(*I‘ of t he defeiidaiit to the cross-hill may he con

sidi-it-d as suh.~tantiall_v. and for all practical purpose» ii repli

(‘X(‘€'])lllIll‘S

cation to the tit-fendant's answer to the t)I'l2llll\l hil l.
ll'In/Ir V.
.lr/hio".‘.! I’. I-.‘ Hr. .'i‘Zl. A cross-hill nzaiiist a complainant

on a out-stioii of fact the court will come to a conclusion upon

should in general be filed at the time of tiling the answer. and

Hr‘. '1').

Qmi J1|l'/VII’

V. .I¢/PL \'/;H,2 I31‘. 7'/4. Wi.

(ill

CHANCERY.

379

40. That every cause in the court of chancery shall be deemed to be at
issue on ﬁling a replication; and it shall not be necessary to issue a sub
poena or enter a rule to rejoin in any case.
41. That where, after the ﬁling of the bill, any person shall acquire
such an interest in the subject-matter of the suit as would have made him
a proper or necessary party, if such interest had been possessed by him at
the time of the commencement of the suit, it shall not be necessary to ﬁle
a supplemental bill to make such person a party, but the same may be
done by petition ﬁled in the cattse, and which petition, veriﬁed by oath,
shall state the interest of such, person, and the manner in which the same
was acquired; and a copy of the petition and notice of the application
shall be served on the complainant or his solicitor, and notice of the
application shall he served on such of the defendants as the chancellor
shall direct, if made before the time for answering has expired, and, if after
that time, on each defendant who has answered or appeared in the cause;
and the chancellor may thereupon, if it appear that such person is entitled
to be made a party to the cause, and has acquired his interest from some
party to the same, order that he be made a party thereto; but such person
shall be bound by all orders and proceedings in the cause against the party
whose interest he has acquired, and the cause shall not he delayed by the
admission of such party, except for such time as it may seem to the chan
cellor to be necessary to take the evidence regarding such claim. (a)
42. That in all cases in which it is provided in this act that a person
may be made a party by petition alter the commencement of the suit, such
person may be made a party either before or after an interlocutory or ﬁnal
decree therein, but such decree shall not be opened or set aside thereby,

and in all cases where the person so made a party does not dispute the
claim of the complainant, or any part of it, the complainant, or any defend
ant whose prior right is not disputed, shall not be delayed by the admission
of such party; but his claim shall be fully heard and investigated in dis
posing of the residue of the subject-matter of the suit, or of the proceeds
thereof.

\Vhen cause at
issue.

Person acquiring
interest alter bill
filed may be made
a party.
P. L. 1870, p. 41.

Parties may be
added, either be
fore or after linal
decree.
P. L 1870, p. 4'2.
Amended.

V. Evidence; interrogatories; examination of witnesses.

43. That if any complainant proceed to a hearing on bill and answer
only, the answer shall be taken to be true in all points; and no evidence
shall be received unless it be matter of record, to which the answer relates,
and is provable by the same record. (b)
in all cases before closing the testimony.

But the ﬁrst rule

Hearing on bill
and answer.

does not apply to a cross-bill by one defendant against another,
nor does the last, to cases in which no testimon has been

ant, but not to file an answer. He mayavall himself of any
defense the mortgagor could have set up alter it decree. I-Invtll
v. )[0)Il(‘l(1i7‘ 1t'oiln~o_u (‘n., I0 1', 1;, 1;,-, too, A party coming

taken. |'(lIt(l!)'l‘(!I' v. Jlolromb, 6 C. E. Gr. 105.
he proper
time for ﬁling a cross-bill,'\\'here such bill is necessary, is at the
time oi‘ putting in the answer to the orlginalsult,aud before

the previous orders anti proceedin-_'s in the cause I hnu the party
whose interest he has acquired would have been bound. lv'|u'.wl

the isstte isjoined by tiling the replication.

9 C’. L‘. Hr. 78.

Sh-tvns \-'. S!e.ven.r,

\\'hi-re the cross-bill was not filed until ayear

after the filing of the original bill,and after the proofs had
been taken, the original cause noticed for a hearitig, and a
proper decree could be made withoutn cross-bill, the chancellor

would not do-l-.i_v the hearing on the original bill on the ground
that the coinplainant had not answered the cross-hill. Wit
lmnur v. Carlr, 2 Slut‘/t‘. 5-I3. Upon a cross-suit the answer of
the complainant to the ut'l;.{itlal suit, is evidence so l'ur as re
sponsive to the. cross-bill. Hruhmn v. ]$'lI')‘_!jIH(ll|,4 ('. E. Gr.

29.

Reversed, 4 (.1 E. Hr.-'tT-1.

A defendtint in his cross-bill,

cannot set up a case im-onsistent with the case made in his
answer to the original bill. -]47('kSf)|l v. (1'l‘(l1l/, 3 C. 1-,‘. Gr. H5.
A defendant cannot by cro.<-.-bill litigate matters between him

into a case by petition under this \t~L‘lit)ll. is no iurther bound by

v. I/i"ll'l”, 12 C. la‘. Hr. -i'.".i. After ti hill to i‘ort~t~lose ti itiorlttttge
is filed, subsequent ineumbrances may be made ]);\I'llP\ by
ﬁling a petition instead of n sup lenient hill
Luvrnlm v.
.’lIur.vh, 3 Slrw. 59, one who, pending n foret-losure suit, has
acquired a contested claim to part of the surplus paid into court
on the sale, alter satisfying ct)nipl:tiuant's l]iHl‘li.Z&t|Jt;', cannot be
made n. party to the stilt by |)t-lllltnl. alter linal decree, forthe
purpose of enforcing such claim. Jllitluul luv. C0. v. .$cIiu-ob, 6
Ihrlr. 205.

(b) The allegations of the answer as to f1|c!.r,s0 far astheyate
responsive to the bill, must be taken as true. ttmononn v.
7'1-upIitI_0v'n, Sui. ‘Z8. Jlorrts mid I~.'\._~'v'r It‘. It‘. (/0. \'. Hluir,l
Stock. 635. Ibwlrr \'. Rot, 3 -S‘!/n-It". 387, I.'m-kill. \’. Sine‘, 2 llrrrs.
1-‘lb. Brown v. Bucltlq/, i .~VI‘('tl)'!. '.l9i. low! v. It'eetI,l ('. l~.'. Hr.

self and another defendant which are not the subject of the

2-iii.

suit. ('ll!‘])H|(I r V. Hrrty, 10 Slew.
tn) Where a ﬁrst mortgagee, contrary to the agreement with

2 C’. E. Hi‘. 517. Vo<n'Iu"r.r \'. l'oorIuv.s, 3 ('. I"). ﬁr. ‘Z23.
Sly!"-‘.3 C. E. Hr. 297. Boomrm v. H3115, 4 (’. Ia‘. H1297.

the mortgagor, collected the full amount of the mortgagor,

V. l>’m'rd, 4 U. E. Hr. 4'23.

without I'0SOt‘litllZ to the mortgage, and a second mortgage

Force V. Duh-lirr. 2 C. la‘. Hr. I65.

|"lInrIt'l't‘((r v. llnlrmltb,
Bird V.
Dc Hurt

Ivtltubilttitls of ll'in.\Iow v. IImI\m|,ti

givenwlgra aubsequetit owner was foreclosed and the master

C’. 1']. hi‘. I72. ,\'hrn“ns V. Slcurnx, 5 (.'. E’. Hr. I67. See 'I'/iunotis
V. DC Baum, I .1!"/.'ttr'/. 37. R1 rt! V. Smil/0,7 I’. H. ‘ii’. 500. lit

repor

tentlons and motives are not facts, tt)llCllitig which the answer is

the ﬁrst mortgage paid, the former owner on petition

was admitted to defend anti be suhr

ated, and the sht-rill‘ was

forbidden to proceed nnderthis sect on. The court refused to
determine on this application whether the matter between the
ﬁrst niortga-.:ee and morttzatzor had been decided by-suit in
another state, because the point. involved the merits ofthe con
trovr-|-~_v. The petitioner need not submit his proposed answer
or bill to the court before ﬁling it; all that can be required is
that he siti.-f_\' the court, by setting forth facts duly verified,
that
has a hona
claim
to such
an interest
as entitles
I0 behe
mndeu.
pnrt y/Me
to the
suit.
O'mrml
\'. .'i!uIli'.son,
9 (i'. I-.'. him
Hr.
65.

After it decree pi o cmi. and sale of the prcmist-s undera

l'or0t_'l0sure the purchaser uray be admitted as a party del'end

conclur-rive. lM_1'ord v. ('runr:,l C. E’. U1-.265. So,an ad|nl:-sion
or allegation of fact in the answer will not avail the complain

ant unless ptit in iasue by the bill.

J-[q{7'\'. Bind, '2. C. E. Hr. ‘.101.

()r accepted by complainant.
Whitney v. It'UhhH|¢_2 C. H. Hr.
364). Nor can the do/emlanl deny or question by the broofsa
fact admitted by the answer. l.ippt'nr-oil v. Rnloimy, 3 .\'lork.

52%. .l[e.\'we v. Suiilli, 1 C’. 1-.'. (Ir. -I63. The rule does not apply
to an answer which upon its face is incredulous. .S‘Irtvn9\'.
Pbsl, 1 Bros. 408. Nor where the denial, although express, is of
a fact ol’ which the defendants admit themselves to be ignorant.
1}/oIr_u v. Srilrs, 2 Hr. !.‘Ii.2~i-5. Nor where it asserts a right
aliirmatively in opposition to complainant's demand. PIS!!!‘ v.

380

CHAXCERY.

44. That the defendant in chancery, aﬂzer he shall have ﬁled his answer,

Interrogatorles to
complainant.

Examination of
witnesses.

may exhibit interrogatories to the complainant, which shall he answered
by him on oath or affirmation; and such answer shall be evidence in the
cause in the same manner and to the same effect as the defendant’s answer
to the complainant’s bill is evidence; and if the complainant shall not
answer such interrogatories by the time appointed by the court, he shall
be in contempt, and his hill dismissed, with costs. (a)
45. That all examinations of witnesses hereafter to be taken and made

use of at the hearing of any cause in the court of chancery, except such
as shall be taken before the vice chancellor, shall be taken and reduced to

writing by one of the examiners of said court, or before a commissioner
or commissioners appointed by the chancellor according to the course of
the court, who are hereby authorized to administer the proper oath or
afiirmation to the witnesses examined by them, or any of them; and all
examinations of witnesses before examiners shall be taken on ten days’
notice of the time and place of taking such examination, given by the
party or his solicitor to the opposite party or his solicitor; and either of
the parties in the cause shall and may, in their proper persons, or by their
solicitor or counsel, have liberty to be present and examine and cross
examine such witnesses ; all which examination of witnesses so taken shall

be ﬁled with the clerk of the court, to be tnade use of and read in evidence
upon the hearing of the cause, saving all legal exceptions. (b)
Pleadlngs and
evidence, when
printed.
P. L. 1866, p. 878.

46. 'i‘hat it shall be lawful for the chancellor in such cases as he ma ~'
I

I

I

A

Judge proper, to order the pleadings and evidence, or any part thereof, to
be l)rinted, and to order the ex l)(3ilSC of such lirintin g to be taxed as P art

of the costs in the cause. (0)
VI. Setting down the cause and the hearing.
\Vhen cause to
be set down for
hearing.
R. S. 912.

Porch. 2 Stork. 243.

47. That every cause shall be set down for hearing at the next stated
term ai'ter the ﬁling of the replication; or on failure thereof, the com
plainant’s bill shall be distnissed, with costs, unless the court, on just cause
and reasonable terms. allow further time for the said hearing; and if the
Nor where matter is pleaded by way of

confession and avoidance. Miller v. ll'acI:.b'ur.20-i. ..lIor1-is
(‘mull (1'). v. Mayor of Jrrsry lily, 3 Stock. 13. Stevens v. Post, I
BI-"us. l0‘$. Rom":-1.0 v. Bo-yrss, 5 (7. E. Hr. 139. An allswer,

V. Flarrll, 5 C. I-.'. (ii. 2l3. Or if he dies alter a cotnmiaslon is
returned. Ltttrrntrr v. I"m1'h, 2 (‘. 1;‘ Hr. ‘Z35. R(tm.~‘r*y V. Du
mnrx, 4 Hur. 66. But ifhe svcreteslnniselfso that he cannot be
cross-exatninetl,l1is deposition will he suppressed. I-‘law-Ilv.

although l'PS|)ul|~tl\‘e, may contain within itself such statements

Flmv/ll, 5 C. E. t-'r.‘.!l3. The ‘objection to a witness on the

as will alone deprive it of all t~ﬂicac_\'. (’omni¢*rrt'ttl Bunk v.
R(’l‘kl!‘€S, 1 Hui. Ch. mo. An allegation that a defendant has
seen the answer of another delendant in the same cause. and
that the satne is true, is lli\lltl‘l(.‘lt‘lll. (.'rn'r V. ll'rl:l, 3 C’. 1'}. Hr.

ground of incompetency, must he made when he is oil‘;-red for
exaltilnatioll. if then known. BI rr_i/"om \'. Hruhmu, -l C‘. B.
Gr. 29. 3 0- E. (v'l'. 370, jlmwll \'. Auhn, I I-'0'. (‘It -H. .-\'H‘illP
v. D1 nun!/, 1 (-‘r. Ch. 321. A party cannot wait until after the
direct examination ofthe \\'lill£*.\.s and thereby ascertain whether
the testintony is favontble or Utllt‘l'\\ i~e. Slim ultlll \'. Jlmlorn,
'2. Nlork. 469. If the incotnpt-tent-_v appear at any time during
the examination, the tt'.‘~l||llllll)' should be overruled. Den,
Jfowfll v. .-i.\‘hnmrP, 2 Zoo ‘.’til. lh n, lion mun \'. (‘umMo.\".-,1 Gr,
136. so the lllCtlfli|lt*lPilt‘_\’ maybe shown by pat'ol.althou=_:h
written evidence of it exist. Jloyo v. (v‘rn_u, 1‘vn.‘Ft'5'.'. 1h rt,
Jlottvll V. .'ls/l'llHn‘F, 2 Zoh. 261. Fee N/o/w \'. limit/, Pm. '-'~ll5 1' l.
The evidence of an lII(‘Tllll[N'lQlll witness may be legalized by
the neglect of the pat ty liaving the right, to object. or by being
subsequently examined himself anti nasenting to the truth of
[he gtgtemt-lilg,
l)'!!‘r‘I,‘/lI(lIl V. J1!/llf(;rlmII_‘ll, I .lI(‘(,'r'tl'f. H77.
ll'1lIk(r V. Jfill. 7 (7. 1-,’, (Ir. 5|-'1. Sire ])¢luul/ \'. B71011’. ‘J (Jr. Ch.
-ill. Or if objections taken before the master are not reneivt-d
at the hearing. or when the depositions are acted on by the
court, they are waived. Black \'. ].o~m, 1 Bun. 109. \\'hert- a

-ll, 4 P. 1-J. tn-. 31!). So if sworn to before an otﬁcerln another
state, not authorized by the statuteS of this staze, or the rules of
this court, to take nn oath to an answer. Trumbull v. ("”}bl)7l3,
Hal, I)i_r/. ‘.2’!
Frrytnyy \'. 110*’/Illllt, 8 C’. E. Hr. 36. Jfuighf V.
Illorrls Aqulrlucl, I llitsh. (‘. (‘. lilll
For l't‘ll'ni Of veriﬁcation,
see Pinrvrs v. 1t'»mPrr.vm, 9 (‘. 1-.'. o'r.3»i~l. If defendant be ab
sent from the t'ntttltt'_\’. i'S'/oN\httr'_l/ v. l'ro'I,".‘. Imus. 390. Jim'

qoitvi rlr [‘w'/vs v. Hm-Ilmr, 17 Sn u‘. 517.

In a hearing upon bill

nu-l answer. the lucts \\'t‘ll pit-aided in the answer will he taken

as true, whether they be responsive to the averments ofthe hill
or not, [)m'mnn.~t V. ('mm'ron. -I Dirk. l.
(oi The object of examining a party under oath is to make a
dist-ovet',\' of facts supposed to be within his knowledge, and of
which the evidence (".llllltlt be otherwise attained. Jn<'l.son v.
Jw-A-wit, 2 Hr. Uh. mi. Their examination, like that of other
\vitm».<-es, is stihject to all just QXt‘i‘]ltltlllS at the hearing.
.\~'ev:Il¢- v. Dmuv-/rr,l Hr. !'h. 32!. Before n IJIITKY (‘fill ll‘ PX
atnined as a witness an order must be obtained. Jirtnrl v.

(.‘l'ttm", ‘2 Ha! ('h. 159. Sharp v. Hunk, IIttl..Di{J.234. I)er‘lrfl‘
V. (‘mkrt/, Hui. Iliﬂ. ‘Jill. Nor will cotnplaituint be ordered to

cause in a divorce suit is referred to a master, it is irregular to
examine a \\'llllt'.\‘~l hetoreauother master. (fbok v. (wilt-. 2 1-,’. or.
26:1. A witness should not be allowed to have his direct tt'\tl~

mony read to him before cro:~:s-examination ; such irregularity

answer interrogatories, unless tin.-y are filed within the time

is not suﬂit-lent to suppress the testimony, but must. almost

limited by the rules of the court, unlee<.< defendantcan show

(lt‘StfOy the (‘t‘etlibillt_\‘ of the witness. .l)rrhy v. Dvrhy, 6 ('_ E,
I-'1'. 36.

The deposition of awitness before a master must be

good t't'2L‘<tltl$l for not complying with the rules. ]’Iulps v.
C'Hr!i.v. 1 Hr. ('10. 5187.
(ll) The rules ofevldence are generally the same in equity as
at law. 1t‘un_t/on v. Fm'ntr‘."-\" Bunk, 3 Hr. (‘11. -l-Q0. Every person,
whatever hi.~t office or dlgllity, iii bound it) appear and testify
when required to do so b_v proper process, unless he has a law
ful exctm». An order to testify is an unusual proceedintz. and
ought not to he made agaltist the executive ofthe state. Thomp

without an order of the court for that purpose, the:-ourt will

son v. The I-'r'rmrm l'u!!€lJ R. Ii’. ('o., 7 C. 12'. (v‘1'.lll. The com
petency of a witness is determined by his -\fHIH-\l‘Wl1(‘ll he is

reject the second examination. ]lun.s-on v. Firs! (.'llurr‘h. 3
Slork. 441. A refusal by a master to adjourn an examination at

sworn and examined.
ll'aIl.-er v, Hill, 7 C. E. Hr. 513. Jlulford
V. Jfinch. 3 Sfork. I7.
Van Jlouren \'. Posf.6 C‘. L‘. Fir 365. If
he is then competent. his deposition may be read at the hearing.
although the opposite party has since died, without his deposi
tion havinlt been taken. Jlrulalt v. ll'ttrtt.'ir‘l.'. 4 C. J-.'. Gr. 439.
so if 1l.\vittl8s<t, who has sitzned his direct examination, dies
before he is cross-examined. his testimony may be read. .Fl(tt'€u

signed by the witness: if not signed it is imperfect. and cannot
be read at the hearing. Flatvll v. I-’Im»rH,-3 (‘.11. Hr. 211. A
witness ought not to be examined the sr.-cond time on the same

matter. Cmtt;fo1'rl V. .BrrI)ml_/, Snrr. 4.3%. But if the opposite
party do not object. the party offering it cannot. Dfftllly v.
.\’obl¢-. 2 (.1-‘r. Ch. -H1.

If the witness has been re<-rxamined

rt.-quest of counsel to afford him an opportunity to produce wit
l’l('.\§(‘S, is good cause for a motion to set aside the report.

Itlss v. Jfert-=1»-s, 9 C, 1;’, Hr. 25.
pressed before the hearing.
see Rl'l.i£\' or (‘llA.\'t"EltY,

I)oo_q

'l‘estimon_v will not be sup

Brown v. Bur/.'Ie_t/. 1 .111-Cm-1, 294,
-H. 78-95.

(c) See Rl.'Lk;:'- or Cnaxcmnv. Sec. 99.

CHANCERY.

381

said hearing be not had within the time so limited or allowed, then the
court shall dismiss the said bill, with costs; provided, always, that there be
ﬁfteen days between the ﬁling of the replication and the next stated term;
and if there be not, then the hearing shall be had at the subsequent stated
term or at a special term. (a)

;_;-'18. [This section amended by Sec. 137, post]
' 49. That ii‘ the defendant shall not attend at the time appointed for the
hearing oi‘ the cause, the bill, answer, replication, documents, examinations
and proofs shall be read, on the part of the complainant, and the court
thereupon shall decree in favor of the complainant or dismiss his bill, as
the case may require.
50. That the bill, answer, pleadings, papers, documents, examinations
and proofs ﬁled in the cause shall be used at the argument or hearing, for
which no charge shall be made by the clerk.

Proviso.

What if defendant
do not attend.

Papers used at
hearing.

VII. Decree, its enrollment and effect.
51. That when any cause shall be ﬁnally determined in the court of
chancery, except where the suit, bill, or proceeding shall be dismissed by

Plendings, &c.,
to be enrolled.

consent, the clerk of the court shall enter or enroll together, in order, the

bill, answer, pleadings, reports, decretal orders, and decree in such cause,
in a book to be kept for that purpose, which shall be signed by the chan
cellor as of the day on which such decree was pronounced;(b) but such
decree shall not contain any recital of the said bill, answer, or other

pleadings.
52. That whenever any suit, bill or proceeding shall be dismissed out of
the court of chancery, in pursuance of any consent or agreement of the
parties for that purpose, no enrollment of the bill, petition, answer, or
other proceedings had in such suit, shall be necessary ; nor shall any fees
be allowed or taxed therefore ; provided always, that either party may, at
his or their own expense, require the same to be enrolled. (c)
53. That whenever the proceedings and decree in any case are by law
required to be entered or enrolled in manner aforesaid, it shall be the duty
of the clerk to enter or enroll the same, so that the record may be ready
to be signed by the chancellor within three months after the ﬁnal decree in
such cause shall have been ﬁled with the said clerk; and no clerk shall
charge any- fee therefore until such service shall have been actually per
formed.
54. That whenevever any cause shall be ﬁnally determined in the court of
chancery, and the person then being clerk of the said court shall cease to

No enrollment if
bill dismissed by
consent.

Proviso.

Clerk, when to
enroll.

when enrolled by
clerk's successor.

be such, by death or otherwise, before he shall have entered or enrolled

the proceedings in such cause, in manner aforesaid, if by law they ought
to be so entered _or enrolled, then it shall be the duty of his successor in
oﬂlce, within three months after his appointment, to make or cause to be

made such entry or enrollment.
"I 55. That if the chancellor, by whom any cause shall have been ﬁnally
heard and determined, shall go out of oﬂice, and some other person shall
be appointed chancellor before the proceedings and ﬁnal decree in such
cause shall ha\'e been enrolled and signed in the book kept for that pur
pose, then it shall be the duty of his successor in oﬁice, or the chancellor
Au ) Where, on the 20th of May, the defendant took an orderon
complainant, to speed his cause. served the order the next day,
and on the 22d the complainant ﬂied his replication, and took
no further step, it was held that defendant was entitled to have
the bill dismimed at the next term.
West v. Paige, 1 -S‘lo¢'Ir. 203.

If a defendant fails to notice his demurrer for argument, and
complainant. omits to take advantage of it st the ﬂrst term

thereafter, he may do so at a subsequent term, without ﬂrst
taking an order on defendant to bring it to argument.

But

he nmst nerve a rule to answer on defendant before takimza
decree pm ran.

Nuoll V. SI. l'al1~IrJr'a Char»-It, 1 Sim-I.-. 76.

Wheres. plea ofa former suit pending is pleaded, complainant.
may take issue upnn the fleets of the plea, ora reference to n
master whether both suits are for the same matter. If he does
neither, the defendant must set down the lea for argument.
Bl:-Etmn v. Eromlheml, 3 Mark. 129.

A mot on to strike out an

lnsuﬂlclent plea is not correct practice: the lea should be set
down for argument. Cbrlm v. Grriizx, 8 C. . Gr. 197. Excep

How decrees
signed alter chan
cellor goes out of
oﬁice.

tions to a nia.ster’s report must. be net down for hearing the
same as other causes. Morru v. Ihylur, 8 C. E. (Ir. 131.
\\’hen an answer is ﬂied. to which there is neither exception
nor replication, the cause should be set down forhearimr on bill
and answer, and a decree pro con. and order of reference um
not be taken except by consent of the defendant. Yuunn v.
Younn. 2 C. 1-). 171'. 161. Bee Rl'LB~l or Cr1.\.\'cr:a\',Sec:<. 10-16.
(b) Where n party in interest dies after the a

ument and be

fore the signing oi‘ the decree,the decree and o

era in the cause

should be signed and ﬂied ns oi‘ the date of the a
ment: an
order for that purpose is necessary. Burnhnm v.
nllInn.l C.
1-]. Gr. 310. H0,where a sole complainant or defendant dies.
B¢~n.\vm v. Wolwi-Ion, 1 C. I-J. Gr. I10. See Dm v. Thmlln, Ii Hm‘.
14. llnn v. (blv, 3 lab. lid. Erie Ruiluxty 0.». v. Arker-ton, -i Vr.
33. Hiityrr v. Sclmzrk. 2 Jlcthrt. 398.
(1') A hill was dtstnimed with the consent of complainant's

solicitor.

The fees for enrolling were stricken out. Andrew: v.

Ford, 2 Hal. Ch. 488.

See Wlnans v. Wttlworlh, Hal. Dip. ‘Z-ll.

7

CHANCERY.

382

Effect of decree.
P. L. 1855, p. 55.

Proviso.

Lands not bound
until abstract ﬂied
in supreme court

office.

.

for the time being, to sign such enrollment with his own name, preﬁxing
to such signature the words “ by the statute;” and all proceedings and
decrees so signed, shall be as good and effectual in law, to all intents and
purposes, as ii’ the same had been duly signed by the chancellor who pro
nounced such iinal decree.
56. That the decree of the court of chancery shall, from the time of its
being signed, have the force, operation, and effect of a judgment at law in
the supreme court, from the time of the actual entry of such judgment;
and all decrees and orders of the court of chancery, whereby any sum of
money shall be ordered to be paid by one person to another, shall have the
force, operation, and effect of a judgment at law in the supreme court,
from the time of the actual entry of such judgment, and the chancellor
may order such executions thereon as in other cases; provided, that no
decree of the court of chancery, hereafter to be made, shall, as against
any person not a party thereto, become a lien upon or bind any lands,
tenements, hereditaments. or real estate, other than those speciﬁcally
mentioned and described in such decree, or in the bill of complaint on
which the same is founded, until the parties interested in such decree, or
some or one of them, shall have ﬁled in the office of the clerk of the
supreme court a statement or abstract of such decree, containing the names
of all the parties thereto, designating particularly those against whom it
is rendered, with the state and county in which they respectively resided,
the time at which the said decree was signed, and the amount of the debt,

damages, costs, or other sum of money thereby directed to be paid ; which
statement or abstract the said clerk shall forthwith record in a proper book,
to be by him provided and kept in his oﬂice for that purpose; which book
shall be properly indexed by the said clerk, and be a public record, to which
all persons desirous to examine the same shall have access. (a)

5'1. [This section amended by Sec. 161, post.]
Clerk to ﬁle and
record notice.

58. That it shall be the duty of the clerk with whom any such notice
shall be ﬁled, forthwith to record the same, together with the time of the
ﬁling thereof, in a proper book, to be by him provided and kept in his
oﬂice for that purpose; which book shall be properly indexed by the said
clerk, and be a public record. to which all persons desirous of examining

the same shall have access.

[See Sec. l23,p0st.]

59. That the following and no other fees shall be allowed for the services
required by the two last preceding sections of this act, viz. : to the county
clerk, for ﬁling and recording each notice, ten cents per folio ; to the clerk

of the supreme court, for ﬁling and recording every statement or abstract.
twenty-ﬁve cents; which fees shall be included with the other costs in the
cause, and taxed therewith, by the clerk of the court of chancery.
Proceedings in

case or final de
cree for defend
ants, when a lis
pendens has been

ﬂied.
P. L. 1-‘GS, p. 08.

60. That whenever a ﬁnal decree shall be made in favor of the defend
ant or defendants, in any cause affecting the title to any lands and real
estate, notice of the pendency of which has been ﬁled in the office of any
county clerk or clerks, it shall be the duty of the said clerk or clerks to
enter upon the margin of the record of such notice a statement of the
substance of such decree, upon a copy thereof certified under the seal of
the court of chaucery, being ﬁled in his office, and thereafter the lands
and real estate mentioned in the said notice shall be and remain discharged
of all equities set up in the bill of complaint in said suit, notwithstanding
the said suit be thereafter revived. [See Sec. 123, posh]

(11) A decree, in case of a creditor's bill against an adminis~
trator, is a Judgment from its date in favor of all ihe creditors,
and they are entitled to be paid rntubly unless they have some
legal priority. Hazm v. Dnrliny/.1 Hr. ('h. 134. This section
was only intended to make decrees alien, the same as judg
ments of the supreme court are.
inn Ru.vI;ir/r v. _ilnIm‘!c, 3
Hm: 1&5. A decree can confer no higher or better title than a
sale of the premises by virtue ofan execution uponn judgment
at law. Thmmu v. I): Baum. l Jlrtnrf. 37. A personal decree
for deﬁciency of proceeds to pay the inoriiznge (l\'l)[ does not
i>e<-oniv n lion upon the real prop:-rty of the person against
whom it is taken, until aﬂer ihc sole, and n deficiency is found
w exist. Brll v. Hi[m1n'r, 10 (‘, ‘ I-‘r. 104. Jlulual Lrfr I2i.m1'
llnr-1 Lb. v. .s'~ulhrn~vI, 10 C. I-.‘. I-‘r. 337. A decree ior n divorce n
nu rm: Pl Moro, directing an unnuity lo be pnlrl to the wife, and

that it should be n lien from its dun: upon the imslnunl‘s lands,
is not a judgment so us to bind the lands f\i..'ililiSl strangers to

the suit, when no abstract has been llled.

i're.elaiui v. Jucolnls,

4 C. E. Gr. 231. This section does not apply to an ordinary de~
cree oi‘ foreclosure. .l)<|uvs v. ll'h1'rlr1', 16 Vr. 67. See Jlulual
Pin l1t.r|n"rlnrr' (V... v. N1 n-tun, 21 Vr. -’>7l. A bonn flde mortgage.
given alter the entry of u personal decree against the mortgagor
for ihe payment of money only, but be-lure the ﬁling ofa state
ment or abstract of the decree in the supreme court. is entitled
to prinriiy over the decree. Jlrsry v. lwnm-r.1!, I2 C. Ia‘. Gr. 299.
The |Jrnvi5i0ns of this section apply only to such decrees as re
semble njudgniuni. in the pecuniary obligations which they im

>se.

('/4..-. v. ('Im"r, 1 so ft’. 472.

A decree in equity, except it.

s founded on a rhzht or cause oi action which makes the decree

alien. docs not bind lands. unless such efficacy is given to it by
statute. Jlulmil I.i_!1' In.rm':mrr' 4h. V. Hopprr, l6-S‘Ir>u'. 387. A
money decree oi‘ the court oi‘ chnncery has, by express statutory
provision, the same force, operation and effect asajndgnient of
the supreme court. b‘e‘¢'ond Notional Bank v. Btamxll, l7 Slew.
173.

CHANCERY.

383

61. That in all suits instituted in the court of chancery for the enforce
ment of any claim for the payment of money upon any lands and real
estate, except for the foreclosure of a' mortgage, and notice of the pendeney
of which shall be ﬁled in the oﬁice of any county clerk or clerks, it shall
be lawful for the chancellor, and he is hereby empowered to make an order
discharging the said lands and real estate from such claim, upon the
defendant or defendants giving suﬁicient and satisfactory security, in such
sum and manner as the chancellor may direct, for the payment, of such
sum or sums of money as may by the ﬁnal determination of the said cause
be ascertained to be chargeable upon the said lands and real estate, and
upon ﬁling a copy of the said order, certiﬁed under the seal of the court
of chancery with the said county clerk or clerks, he or they shall make
entry of said discharge, by reason of said order, on the margin of the record

Proceedings in
case the chancel
lor orders the
lands and real
estate to be dis
charged.
Ib.

of said notice, and the said lands and real estate shall be thereafter dis

charged from any claim which may be made in the said suit, except such
as may be covered by the security given for the payment of such claim.

[See Sec. 123, posh]
62. That the county clerk shall be entitled to receive the sum of ﬁfty
cents for each service required in the two preceding sections.
63. That where a decree of the court of chancery shall be made for a
conveyance, release, or acquittance of lands or any interest therein, and
the party against whom the said decree shall pass, shall not comply tl1ere
with by the time appointed, then such decree shall be considered and
taken, in all courts of law and equity, to have the same operation and
effect, and be as available as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance
had been executed comformably to such decree, and this, notwithstanding
any disability of such party by infancy, lunacy, coverture, or otherwise. (a)

Fees of clerk.
Ib.
Eifect of decree
to convey lauds.
P. L. 1852, p. 256.

VIII. Final process and duty and liability of sheriﬂ‘.

64. That the complainant having obtained a decree, it shall be lawful for
the said court to issue process for the immediate sequestration of the real
and personal estate of the defendant, or so much thereof as may be sulﬁ
cieut to satisfy the demand of the complainant in the decree speciﬁed,
with costs, or to issue a writ of ﬁeri facias against the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements, hereditaments and real estate, of the defendant, upon
which sufficient property shall be taken and sold to satisfy the said demand,
with costs, or to issue a capias ad satisfaciendum against the defendant,
upon which writs of ﬁeri facias and capias ad satisfaciendum there shall be
the same proceedings as at law; or to cause, by injunction, the possession
of the effects and estate demanded by the bill and whereof the possession
or a sale is decreed, to be delivered to the complainant or otherwise,
according to such decree and as the nature of the case may require;(b)
and in case of sequestration, the court shall order payment and satisfac
tion to be made out of the estate so sequestered, according to the true
intent and meaning of the decree.
(a) A decree directing n. conveyance to be made vests the
estate so that the rights of the parties, in case of n. variance be
tween the decree and the conveyance, must depend upon the
former rather than the latter. Price v. Si.uson,2 Bras. 168, 2 C’. E.

Gr. 476. A decree that s sheriﬂ"s deed should become void,
mti the purchaser reconvey on the payment to him ofacertnin
sum wit in a s
liied time is not such s. decree as becomes s.

Process after
decree.

stmnger purchasing the premises is entitled to the benefit of it.
The mode of proceeding is (i) a demand of possession by the

purchaser ot the tenant in possession, accompanied by nu
exhibit of the deed from the sheriff or master; (2) the order to
deliver possession; (3) injunction; (4) writ of assistance.
Srhcm-I: v. Gunoun-,2 Bean. 220. And the writ will only issue
upon notice of the application and proof that the deed was

Ktoepplng ads. Steltmaclm-, 7

shown to the tenant, possession demanded and that he refused.

V1-. 177. A decree, except for the statute, does not change the
legal title. It operates in per-.\mmm, not in rem, and even
under the statute the decree does not operate directly upon the

Fur-kler v. Worth, 2 Bras.-395. The writ was refused because
the sale was not suﬂiciently advertised as to one of the tracts
sold. Vanmztcr v. Borden, 10 C. E. Gr.4l~i. See, also. Den,

title unless there is n decree for n conveyance.

Smallu.-nod v. Blldrrbuck, i Hm". 497.

conveyance un er this section.

Candi! v.

Binalow, ii‘ .\'. J. L. J. 107.
sh) A court of equity, in order to give to the mmpiainant the
sion
m i beneﬁt
of premises
of itssold
decree.
and will
conveyed
put the
in pursuance
purchaseroi’into
its ( ec
.

Den. v. John.mn,7 Hal.

275. Den, li!rAndren'.u v. O'IIanl|'n. 3 Har. i'.E7. Bayard v.
Cb(fn.r, -1 Wtuh. (1 C. 43. cm-m V. Lruhllju, 2 M'r'(,hrl. 116. A

conveyance oi‘ real estate before sequestration issued, although
aﬂer the decree u on which it is founded, is valid, in the ub

Thmmu v. Delraum,
Gr. M3. It mu only
the suit, or who come
its commencement.

i 3!:-Uurt. 37. .l"razier v. Bealty, i0 U. E.
imue against persons who are nrties to
into possession under the defen ant alter
Bluuvelt v. Smith, 7 O. E. Gr. 81. A

sence of an

proo of main jldm.

V1~e1-lrnuiv..!m-obtw, 4 C’. E.

(i1-.231. A er a sale in s foreclosure suit, and the purchaser
has got his deed, a writ of assistance will go, m: zlcbilnjautititr,
to put him in possession. Beally v. De Fbrm, 12 C’. E. Gr. 48?.

384
Lien of the ﬁeri
faclas.

When sheriff to
be amerced.

CHANCERY.
65. That a writ of ﬁeri facias shall bind the property or the goods of
the person against whom it is issued, from the time that it shall be delivered
to the sheriff‘ or other oﬁicer to be executed, as at law. (a)
66. That if the sheriff or other officer shall neglect or refuse to execute
any process of sequestration to him directed and delivered, or to make
payment of the rents, issues, and proﬁts of the estate so sequestered,
according to the order of the said court, or. where the execution shall be
by ﬁeri facias, shall neglect to ﬁle a just and true inventory of the goods
and chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate so levied on
and seized, unless he return that he hath levied to the amount of the
demand or sum therein speciﬁed, with costs, or shall voluntarily or negli
gently omit, for the space of two months, to render to the complainant, or

his representative or solicitor, the money which he shall have received
from the sale of the estate, real and personal, of the defendant or other
wise, then such sheriff or ofﬁcer shall be amerced by the said court to the
amount of the demand of the complainant, with costs, for the use of the
Proviso.

Amercement of
sheriff lu certain
cases.

said complainant; provided, that ten days’ notice in writing shall be given
to such sheriff or officer by the complainant, his representative or solicitor,
of the intended application for such amercement; which amercement, so
ordered by the court, shall have the force, operation, and effect of a decree
whereon execution, in the name and for the use of the said complainant or
his representative, may instantly, on motion in term time, and without
further proceedings, be awarded and issued against the goods and chattels,
lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate of the said sheriff or
ofﬁcer.

67. That if the sheriff or other oﬁicer shall neglect or refuse to execute
any writ of ﬁeri facias to him directed or delivered, for the space of two

months, or shall adjourn the sale or vendue of the lands, tenements, here
ditaments, and real estate by him levied upon by virtue of such writ of
ﬁeri facias, more than twice or exceeding one month for each adjournment,
he shall be and hereby is made liable to the amount of the debt or damages
and costs, or sum or sums of money mentioned in the said writ, with
interest, and for the recovery thereof ma_v be amerced and proceeded
against in the manner prescribed in and by the last preceding section of
this act; provided always, that if the said sheriff or other ofllcer shall, at
any time before the entry of such amercement against him as aforesaid,
sell the property levied upon, and bring the whole amount of the product
of such sale (after deducting his lawful fees) into court, the said sheriff or
other officer shall be exonerated from all liability, on account of said
amercement.
Further remedy
to party ag

grieved.

68. That if any party to a suit in chaneery shall be aggrieved by the
neglect, default, malpractice, or misconduct of the sheriff, then such party,
his representative or attorney, may apply and be redressed, to the amount
of the sum speciﬁed, in the order or decree, in the manner prescribed by

the sections of the act entitled “ An act concerning sheriffs.”
Sheriff not re
turning process
to be in contempt.

69. That if any sheriff or other officer, to whom any writ, process, or

order of the court of chaneery shall be directed or delivered, shall not
make return thereof at the day of return, and according to the tenor of
such writ, process, or order, the same not being countermanded, he shall
be in contempt. and process of contempt shall. on motion in term time, be
issued against him ; and before he shall be discharged from such contempt,
he shall pay to the clerk. for the use of the state, as a ﬁne for the said con
tempt, a sum not exceeding ﬁfty dollars, to be imposed by the court, and

the costs incurred by means thereof.

70. [This section amended by Sec. 124, post]
(a) See Ex!-:cL"r1o.\'s, Sec. 18.

CHANCERY.

385

IX. Proceedings in foreclosure.

71. That where a bill shall be ﬁled for the foreclosure or satisfaction of
any mortgage, it shall be lawful for the said court to decree a sale of the
mortgaged premises, or such part thereof as shall be sufficient to discharge
the said mortgage or encumbrances on the said mortgaged premises, (a)
besides costs; (I2) which sale shall be made either by one of the masters of
the court or by the sheriff of the county where the premises are situated,
by virtue ofa writ of ﬁeri facias issued for that purpose; which said writ
of ﬁeri facias shall, before it is sued forth, be recorded by the clerk of the
said court in the book kept by him for recording of executions against real

Mortgaged premi
ses may be sold
under decree.

estate.

72. That the sheriff or other officer to whom such writ of ﬁeri facias,
as mentioned in the last preceding section, shall be directed and delivered,
shall make sale pursuant to the command of said writ, and shall make and
execute a deed or deeds for the premises sold, as the case may require;
and the monies arising from the said sale shall he applied to pay oil’ and
discharge the monies decreed to be paid, and the remainder, if any there
be. and if the person or persons entitled to receive it shall be absent out of
this state. may be invested in stock of the United States, or put at interest
on such security as the said court shall think proper to order; and the
same shall be delivered or paid to the person or persons entitled to receive
it, upon his or her application to the court for the same; (0) provided al-trays,
that no greater estate in the premises sold shall at any time be conveyed
or granted to such purchaser than would have vested in the mortgagee
had the equity of redemption been duly foreclosed.
73. That in all cases of a decree for sale of mortgaged premises against
any absent defendant, if such defendant shall, at any time before the sale
made by the sheriil', in pursuance of any writ of execution, issued as
aforesaid, cause his appearance to be entered in court, and shall pay such

Proceedings u nder
ﬁeri faclas.

Surplus money
invested.

Proviso.

Supersedeas in
case absent de
fendant enter
appearance.

costs to the complainant as the court shall think reasonable, then it shall

and
the
sale
and

may be lawful for the said court, by a writ of supersedeas, directed to
sheriff or other officer, to stay his proceedings on the execution for the
of such mortgaged premises; and thereupon such proceedings shall
may be had, as if an appearance had been entered, within such time

and in such manner as, according to the rules of the court, the same ought

to have been entered, in case the ﬁrst process in the suit had been duly
served.

74. That when a decree of the court of chancery shall be made for the
sale of mortgaged premises (in cases where the whole sum secured by the
mortgage is not due) either for non-payment of any portion or installment
of the debtor demand intended to be secured by the mortgage, or the
non-payment of interest due, or both, and it shall appear to the court that
a part of the mortgaged premises cannot be sold to satisfy the amount
(u) This i|n;J0<t‘! no tliﬂ'erent duly upon the sheriff. as to the

93. See also Jlrrwm v. Smllh, 1 C’. E. Hr. l83. Ryrrson v.
I;/:or.m|n,3 I/ul. Uh. I67, 640. Blur-I: v. Morse, 3IIul. Uh. W9.

rm-I»: v. Latlur_u.2 Mcttzrl. 160. Where a mortgagor, after
givimr a mortgagc,sellsa art of the mortgaged prennseston
third person for a valua le consideration, the residue of the
plvmises in the hands or the mortgagor or his vondee, must be

mid ﬁrst to satisfy the mortgage. ﬂtannmt v. Jilrtrulis,-S'lI.r.
ll-‘L B1-illorn v. l'pdlkw,2 Gr. CIL125. Wlnlrrs v. Hmrlrrmn,
2 Ilul. Ch. 31. Black v. Morn, 8 Hal. Ch. 509. Jfrrnc v.
Jltmn, I C‘. E. (Jr. 898. Wm/hrrby v. Slam-I:,1 U. E. (H.491.
PrU(.‘901.ilng1 where such subsequent purchaser does not pay the
purchase money to the mortgagor. Slclle v. Amlrnm, 4 L‘. E’.
(Ir. 410. The above rule does not prevent such mortgage from

\'. Htdslzer, 5 C’. E. Gr. 309.

But I. lender oi‘ the amount due

on the mortgage q/Irr its maturity. held to entitle mortgagor to
costs.

Sltlrlds v. Lozear,

7 O. B. Gr.

417, 8 (‘. H.

(.'r. 509.

Where the mortgagee's conduct in refusing to receive it.
seemed neither improper nor vexatloua, costs refused to either
party. I-[Ill V. While, Sax. 485. See Mellie-I: v. Creamer, I0 C.
E. Gr. 429.
(c) Where. upon n petition for surplus money an order of
reference is made to n master. the master must make his report
and a riual orrier of the court be made before the money can
be paid over. £1: Parle Allm, l Gr. 0h.388. In an attach
ment cuse the surplus money was ordered to be psld to the
auditors. Bmntlnpham v. Brantinpham, 1 Boas. I60.

becoming n lien on n part of the premises only, by agreement

l-Inn!» v.

llulnn. I Hut. Oh. I86. 1/01] V. Brnmlmll, 4 O. E. Gr. 563.
See K lnptmrlh v. lh-rulrr, '.'. Bran. 62. Sllprr v. Mrlhonr, 9 C’.

L Gr. 4%.

not due.

purchasers, where there had been several succt-.»si\'e.-sales of the
premises itt dliferent lots, and a nttirtgugee had released one of
the lots lust sold. Mount v. Pom, 8 ('. E. G’:-.1“. A fore
closure suit is not a proper proceeding in whirh to litigate the
rlgntsofa party claiming title to lhe l'l"lDl‘lgi\1{t~*(i pl'Plliiit(-‘K in
hostility to the mortgagor. 00¢ v. N. J. Jlllllllﬂli Ry. (b.,~i
8lnu.105.
(0) Costs refused n mortgagee. Large v. Van Dnrm,1 Mr
(‘m~!. ‘N8. Drutarral v. Berry, 1 C‘. E. Gr. 4Sl. Young v. Ymmg,
2 C. II. Gr. 161. Allowed to n mortgagee on n bill to redeem
hy the mortgagor. Burlew v. Hillmun, 1 C’. E. Gr. H. PhiI[Iﬂ8

ti..n Cull he t-onvenlently and reasonably deluched from the
residue of the roperty. Vanrlug/m‘ v. Vrnuluync, I C1 L'.(ir.

Wi/t-Q! v. Dania, s Gr. Ch. 224.

mortgage money

Johnson v. 0lcoll,4 Hal. Ch.56i. Gusklll v. Sinr, 2 Bent. 400.
Blair v. Ward.2 Slur.-k. H9. Vane;-run v. Jolmsun. I Jllrﬂzrf.
376. Ho_v v. Bra/nlmll, 4 C. E. 1.’:-..'ii‘>'i.
H’ru'd \'. Hllfllll, 10 C‘.
]L'.lv'I'.397. Adjustment. of equities between tnurigagees and

quantity ofthe premises to be sold, than If it had commanded
hint simply in raise the money required by a tsaie of the mort
gaged premises. l‘iu-khutavl v. (bry, 3SmrA-. 23-I. I-{is dutyis
to at.-ll only so much of the premises as may he necessary lo
satisfy the requirements or the execution, provided such por

between the parties.

Sale when the
whole of the

Nor can the ﬁrst mortgagee by releasing a part of

the preruisa covered by his mortgage.a eel the rights of I.

subsequent mortgagee or purchaser of which he had notice.

25

CHANCERY.

386

Stay of sale on
appearance, and
no plea, demurrer
or answer.

due without material injury to the remaining part of the mortgaged
premises, and that it is just and reasonable that the whole of the mort
gaged premises should be sold together, it shall and may be lawful for the
said court to decree a sale to be made of the whole of the mortgaged
premises. and to apply the proceeds of the sale of said premises or so much
thereof as shall be necessary, as well to the payment of the interest,
installments, or portions then due, and also the costs then due and pay
able, as to the payment of the whole or residue of the debt or demand
which hath not become due and payable, (a) and the residue of the pro
ceeds of such sale to be paid to the person or persons entitled to receive the
same, or to be brought into court to abide the further order of the court,
as the equity anti circumstances of the case require; provided al-wag/s, that
when the residue of the debt or demand intended to be secured by the
said mortgage is payable at a future (lay without interest, and the mort
gagee is willing to receive the satne, the court shall dedttct a rebate of legal
interest for what the mortgagee shall receive on the said debt or demand,
to be computed from the time of the actual payment thereof to the time
such residue of the debt or demand would have becotne due and payable.
75. That in any suit for the foreclosure and sale of mortgaged premises,
in which an appearance shall have been entered by any defendant, and no
plea, answer, or demurrer shall have been ﬁled, no execution shall issue

until the expiration ofsuch time from the date of the ﬁnal decree as may
be ﬁxed by the rules of the court, not less than two, nor more than fottr
months; provitletl, that nothing herein contained shall restrain the issuing
of such execution for more than six months from the return of the process
Decree for excess
of debt over pro
ceeds oi sale.
Amended.
P. L. 1866, p. 878.

Satisfaction of
decree to be
entered.
P. L. 1867, p. 166.

to answer in such suit. [See Sec. 177, post.]
76. That it shall be lawful for the chancellor in any suit for the fore
closure or sale of mortgaged premises to decree the payment of any excess
of the mortgage debt, above the net proceeds of the sales, by any of the
parties to such suit who may be liable, either at law or in equity, for the
payment of the satne; provitled, that there be a prayer to that effect in
the bill of complaint. (b) (1)
77. That when the amount due on any decree in chancery for the fore
closure and sale of mortgaged premises shall be paid and satisﬁed in any
other way than by a sale of the mortgaged premises, or when any decree
in chancery for the payment of money shall be paid and satisﬁed, satisfac
tion shall be entered on the margin of the enrollment by the party receiv
ing satisfaction, or his solicitor, or by the clerk, by virtue of a warrant of
attorney from the party duly acknowledged or proved, in the same manner
as satisfaction is entered of judgments at law ; and upon ﬁling an acknowl
edgment of such satisfaction, under the hand of the solicitor of any party,
such satisfaction may be entered for him by the clerk, and the same fees
shall be paid as in the supreme court for like services. (0)

(rt) \\'ltt-re the principal was not due and the tt|ortt.rtt:.:ve, on a
foreclosure for n-.u-pa_vnn~nt of iuterest. purchased ilw wholt-of
the |)l‘i‘illl\Ps,/u/cl, he tlterchy t-xunzttisiteci the Lt.t0t'lt;‘;tge, Alon
V. -S'.’u'¢=t'e, 10 U. 1'} (Jr. 433. i'roceetiitt:.:.~t for sale win-n ' a mm-1.
gaze is ft)l‘(?ClOh(’(l for default of paymt-nt ofan installment, the
I‘(.‘.\‘ltllll,‘ of the money not being due. /|rm'ricun, <€'v'., Jnsurmm»;
('0, V, ].'_:/rr.~nn, 2 Iful. Ch. 9. SO, i'Ol.' d9i'ﬂUl( ill HIP |i;l_\’lll('llL
Bttldu-in v. Von l'ur~l, 2 .s'.m¢-A-. 577.
Of interest \\'llL'D due
Mtrlirt V. ﬂlr/Mill’, 3 Sllkk. 213. I18 (IP00! V. _lII‘('0/Ir)‘, '1 C. E.
HI‘. Ml. Spring \'. I"i.\/.', 6 1.‘. 1-I. (Jr. 1'.‘-'1. Iiltutrl V. S1‘/ml;/I. 7
C. E. (Ir. 1‘.!ti. Rodinc V. ('v‘rr1y, 9 ('. Ia‘. Hr. 3.‘.-'>. The contiition under Whitfh the fori'eitnre is cl-.titn~;-ti ntusthe exp! it-it.
JP/t‘I’lt8 V. il'in.\Ir/It, 7 C. E. GI‘. 4H.
And the courts it-an
against forft-itttre. Tho:-ne v. ﬂ‘[(r/it)‘, 5 C. E. Hr. 257. (v'ri'ms
V. I/lntlls, ti C. 1'}. Gr. -i‘.H. A receipt of interest upnn I1 mort
gag», witltoul claim or i‘orl't-iture, after the time when, by its
ternts, the principal became due. and indorsing the pa_vmcnt of
the interest on the llltii‘l_’_':l_'.1t',/u/rl,(\. waiver ofthe forfeiture.
Sir!’ \‘. Il‘i_Hlw!m(ln,. 10 C. E. (Ir. 10.’. :5t-e (h'i,ug/s v. I/oulis, 6
C‘. I-7. (Jr. 4&1-i. 5 ‘P, ﬂlsrn, Il'uru'u'/.- v, JP!/lfI(‘/t‘, ‘Z HrtL 163.
]t'o:¢)L/.111/2‘: V. 1)m'lin_1/, 5 ]m!(‘h. l‘Ji. (irtglillt V. ./mus, Pr-‘u.
Tlw mot tr; :20 \\';i“~2l\'t'Il to secure the pttvment of inter
'91}.

(0) Where one purchasing lands a-autnes in his deed to pay
oifa bond and mortgage ofhis Hralilnr, to \\ niclt such land is
snh_\et,-t, he thereby in.-cottn-.~t a sun-t_v in I‘i.'.\]lt‘t‘l tothe tnorlgage

est as \\'t'll as ]\Ii_\'illPlll. of the principal : and although the
rinvipol is Il|'lt.(lll(', the holder ofthe tnorttrnze is entitled to

upon the I'i';il P.\'iRi(-P of the person n'..'.'\in~i whom it is taken
until after the salt», and a li0ii(‘lPll(‘_\' is rnlliifl to e\'i<t. Brll v.
h‘:/!1nﬂ1'r',lﬁ ('. l'.'. lit‘. IO-L Jilnlunl I.-'1'! ]u\'u/'um*r ()1. V. .'\'oulh
(It'll, l0 P. I3‘. /7|‘. -'iTlT.
(.-) Win-re a lllnt'i£ﬂ299 is made .1 defendant in I‘ suit to fore
close a prior morttzatze. and the llP("l‘t't' 2l\'0\Rll(‘lI tnort;1.'u_-t-eitis
costs, he will not lw reqttire-l to cattcel or t-please his tn-\rt_~_.;a,ge
before the costs are paid. 1.rtt1s v. (.'unuvl'r,ti C. 1;‘. til". ‘.550.

Fun. /)n!‘¢’Ti. V. Di(‘I;r1‘.w11,
l'in't~t'lo.\ttrt- for tho illit'l'1*Si in 1ll'l‘t'lll‘.
6 .‘{/r 20. .'i‘~?. tin fort-<-lu-tire l'or unpaid lntr-rest, the principal

not ht-in-4 dnr-. only so ntnch of the property as may be new-Q.
sary to rai'~'v th<~:um»nnt due should he sold. if the property is
divisible nitliont malt-ri:tl iniur_v to the security. ..i[1.'.I"tttltlrl|‘
V. _'|[u_t/at Lumllng/1.’. 1.‘. (U. -i 114/7/.'. 176.

debt.

The tnortgagee may enlorce Sllifll liability personally

against the purchaser to the extent oftlu-. alt-ticiency in a hill to
foreclose. It'1upwm~!h v. l)rr.\'.\lIr, ‘.2 Bem. 6'2. hitch decree can

only be made where the ttrunlor \va.~+ )ur.<uuaIIy liable for the
amount.

In.

Ho_1/ v. BI‘l|1lt/tttll, 4

Jlithnm-', 9 C. E. (-'1'. 430.
Hr. lill.
cage in
But see
ment to

1', 1;

/.'r. 570.

.\‘.n'_mr v.

5'99 Jfrlmnnlutn \'_ ,'l[¢' I,nul/Hm, 3 ('_ E,

It may he made atratitlat one who ;_'ll:tl'iillit-'1'~1 the mort
his w-\.~'ignn1ettt. Jurmon \'. Il‘l.\-¢mII,9 (Y I-.1 Hr. ‘J67
1t'irI;prt£|'irk V. Jmtwn, 9 ('. E. I-'r. ‘.3723. A patol agree
assume the morttzage, ii‘ pr i\'t'tl, \\lll be sntllctent.

ii'il-son V. Ifiltg, 8 C. E. Hr. l-‘iii.

St»-P I21»/In \'. I-‘turlr. 2 Zulu. ti-S0.

A notice stating that a personal decree for such cl.-tic envy will

he taken tl:.{.'liliSt the person liable, mn<t In‘ Rt’! \ ('tluI'|lllhlI\ll9¢1.
little 31. Jmmon \'. li':¢u'HU.9 1‘. Ia‘. /-'1'. ii".
li'-'/mu v. Kiﬂﬂ. 3
C. E‘. I-‘r. 150. The rler~ree may he rtmmuletl on twiilimt and
notice. ll». But not where there i~ no arit-qtttttv rented)" nt
law. Jﬂrmrm v. lilrtttrtll, ii (7, I-,'. !»'-- '1 ~7. _\'n|' \\ here there is
no POl‘.\'(tll:ll llabilit_v. I':IH'Hl"l] \'. I.’-w-'m,m'm'.Sl I’. la‘. (Jr. 2'17.

A p6»|‘:~‘t'iilt\l decree tor sin-h d9ii(‘il‘i!t'_\'lltII“\‘ tmi becomes lien

(1) Ree section 1 of the act of .\Iarch 12th. 18901 P. L. ISSO. p. 2&1», entitled " An act concerning proceedings on bonds and mortgn.g$
given for the same indebtedness and the foreclosure and sale of mortgaged premises thereunder.”

set-posl, title 1\iott'rt;.\ot-Ls.

387

CHANCERY.
78. That in any suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon, or which
may relate to real or personal property in this state, all persons claiming

an interest in, or an encumbrance or lien upon such property, by or through
any conveyance, mortgage, assignment, lien, or any instrument which, by
any provision oi’ law, could be recorded, registered, entered, or ﬁled in any
public oillce in this state. and which shall not be so recorded, registered,
entered, or ﬁled at the time of the ﬁling of the bill in such suit, shall be
bound by the proceedings in such suit, so far as the said property is con
cerned, in the same manner as if he had been made a party to and appeared
in such suit, and the decree therein made against him as one of the defend

Persons whose
mortgages, &c.,
are not recorded,
bound by decree.
P. L. 1870, p. -ii.

ants therein; but such person, upon causing such conveyance, mortgage,

assignment, lien, claim, or other instrument to be recorded, registered, en
tered, or ﬁled as provided by law, may cause himself to he made a party to
such suit by petition, in the same manner as is by this act provided in the
case of persons acquiring an interest in the subject-matter of a suit after
its commencement; the petition in such case must set forth such instru
ment at length, and the title and interest of such party in such a manner
as to show that he has ,an interest in the subject-matter, and is a proper
party in that suit. (a)
79. That it shall be lawful in any action in the court of chancery, for
the foreclosure of any mortgage, for the clerk to tax, as a part of the tax
able costs, in favor of any party to said action, the expenses paid or in
curred by said party in obtaining certiﬁcates of search in any of the

May be made

ponies.

Fees for searches
allowed.

courts or public offices of this state, against or in relation _to the title of

the mortgaged premises; provided, however. that the master of said court
to whom it shall be referred to ascertain the amount due upon said mort
gage, shall, in his report, also certify that, in his opinion, such certiﬁcates

of search are necessary for the proper foreclosure of said mortgage.

[See

Sec. 121,p0st.] (b)
X. Injunctions.
80. That no injunction shall issue to stay proceedings at law in any
personal action after verdict or judgment, on the application of a defendant
in the said proceedings at law, unless a sum of money equal to the amount
due at the time of such deposit upon said verdict or judgment, with costs,
shall be ﬁrst deposited with the clerk of the court by the applicant for such
injunction, or unless said applicant shall give such security, by bond, as
the chancellor shall deem good, to the party or parties at law against whom
such injunction is prayed, in double the amount then due on such verdict
or judgment and the costs at law, with condition to abide such order or
decree as the chancellor shall make in the premises; or if the bill be dis
missed, to pay the amount of the said verdict or judgment and costs,
with the interest thereon. (c)
81. That no injunction shall issue to stay proceedings at law in any
mixed action after verdict or judgment, on the application of a defendant
in the said proceedings at law, unless the applicant shall ﬁrst deposit with
(a) \\'here a lien claim was filed afier the commencement of
n suit in this court to foreclose arno
which wason the
Innds before the work was done or materials provided for which
the lien was claimed, and the lien claimants were not made
parties to the nuii,nnd did not apply io be made parties the
claim was held to be cm oh’ by sale under the foreclosure. kay

numd v. Pod, l 0. 1]. Gr. 441. A person who is not a parry to
n null. may, after decree, file a bill lo be relieved against the

effect of the decree : as if there is a decree in favor of mortgage
and judgment creditors, a creditor of the mortgagor, if he can
show that the mortgage and ‘judgment are kept on foot for the
benefit of the mortgagor nn to defeat his creditors, may ﬂle
such bill. Robmaon v. Dam: 3 Sloclc. 802. Bee Duumore v.
Watooll, l0 C. E. Gr. 804.

A decree will not be opened and the

nnie rhereunderset aside at the insinnce ofa petitioner who, by
nerriecting to have her deeds recorded, was not made a party in
lhesull. Lennard v. New York Bay 00., 1 Slew. 192. See Wood

v. I9‘lm1rr“: Adm’:-J, I ﬂew. ‘M8. E4-lrerron v. Mrﬁllmh, 12 Slrw.
115. The object of the stature is in give the urchnser at lore
elouure sales a tlile free from an latent equ lies to which the
complainant rnirrh! be subject.
he stature is broad enough to
cur offs rno
pnt on record since the foreclosure. Afcﬂrar
v. lihvrnan. 1 Dirk. 178. The owner of e mortgage by an un
recorded assignment, is bound by proceedings in foreclosure of

Injunction alter
verdict or judg

ment in personal
actions.

In mixed actions.

a prior mortgage, to which his assiznor was made a party;
although he was not a party to such proceedings.

Gannon v.

Wright. 4 Dick. 17.
Sh) This section was not intended to control charges between
so icitor and client, for itexpressly provides for taxation only
" in favor of any party" to the action. Strong is Sum v.
Mandy, 7 Dick. 838. See Rule 219.
(c) Applies aswell to a bill of interpleacler, where an injunc
tion is rayed, as to other cases. Jilurrlr Clonal Cb. v. Bartlett,
2 G1-. C l. 9. An injunction issued to restrain proceedin in
attachment against n non-resident debtor for the recoveryo the
jud men! debt at the instance of the defendant in attachment,
wll be dissolved unlem the amount of the jud
ent be depos
ited with the clerk before imuing the iujunct on.

Kinney v.

Ogdrn. 2 Gr. Ch. 168. A udgmenr entered by confemlon upon
a bond with warrant o altorne , is within the act. The in
junction was ordered to be set asl e with costs, unless complain
ant within three days deposit the money or give the security
required by the statute. lilarlatt v. Perrinc, 2 C. E. Gr. 49.

The provision of this section is
remptory, and prohibits the
issuing of an injunction to restra n legal proceedings after ver
dict ior judgment at the instance of the defendant, unless the
money be paid into court ora bond given according to statutory
requirement. Phillip: v. Pullers, 18 Stew. 167.
l

388

Remedy if secur
ity insutﬂcient.

Chancellor may
refer question.

Injunction before
Verdict ; aﬂidavit
required.

Motion to dlmolve
after answer.

CHANCERY.
the clerk of the court such sum oi‘ money as the chancellor shall direct, or
give such security, by bond, to the party against whom the injunction is
pra ‘ed, as the chancellor shall direct. (a)
2. That when any injunction shall be granted upon bond as aforesaid,
and the party against whom the same has been granted shall think the
said bond not suﬂicieut security, such party may apply to the chancellor
to have the security made suﬂicient; whereupon the chancellor, if he shall
deem it expedient to hear such applicant, shall direct notice to be given to
the party giving su_ch bond to appear before him at such time and place
as he shall appoint; and upon proof that the notice directed has been
duly served, the chancellor shall hear the matter, if moved so to do, with
power to adjourn; and if, upon the hearing of the matter, it shall appear
that the said bond is not suificient security, then the chancellor shall have
power to order further security; and if such further security shall not be
given, according to the order made for that purpose, then, for that cause,
the chancellor shall have power to dissolve the injunction granted on such
bond.
83. That the chancellor shall have power to refer the whole matter of
the last preceding section to a master in chancery, who shall hear the
parties, after at least six days‘ notice to the party giving the said bond,
and make report to the chancellor with all convenient speed.
84. That no injunction shall be granted to stay proceedings in any suit
at law, before a verdict or judgment, unless the chancellor be satisﬁed of
the complainant‘s equity, either by aiﬁdavit, certiﬁed at the foot or on
the back of the bill, that the allegations thereof are true, or by other
means. (ll)
85. That no motion to dissolve an injunction which has been regularly
0btained,shall be heard until ten days alter the answer is ﬁled, if the

party rely in any measure on his answer for the dissolution.
Notice ofspecial
motions.

Breach ofin_lunc
tion to stay waste
punished.

86. That neither a motion to dissolve an injunction, nor any other special
motion, shall be heard, unlcss eight days’ notice, exclusive of Sunday and
the day of service, shall have been given thereof to the opposite solicitor. (0)
87. That if the person against whom an injunction shall be issued to
stay waste, shall, after the service thereof, do or commit, consent or direct,
or suffer to be done or committed, any waste or destruction of or upon the
premises, contrary to the said injunction, and the chancellor, on affidavit
or other proof, shall he of opinion that such waste or destruction hath been
done or committed, then the said chancellor may, on motion, order an

attachment of contempt to be issued against the person so charged with
disobedience to, and a breach of the said injunction; and if the person so
offending shall be brought before the chancellor, by virtue of the said
attachment, and shall not make it appear to his satisfaction that no waste
or destruction hath been done or committed as aforesaid, then the said
chancellor may, in his discretion, and on motion, order such oifender to be
committed,and kept in close custody, until he shall give further order
therein. (d)
(G) See Rule 127.
(0) There must be a special aﬂidavit of the truth oi‘ all the

afterwards clearly appears to him to have been improperly

material facts. They need not be proved by the oath of com
plainant. The
non who has the knowledge of the facts
should verily i. ern.
Younghlood v. Sohamp. 2 III:-(‘a1't. 42.
Holdrrrine v. Gwynne. 3 1.‘. E. G1227. Where the complainant
relies on his own oath, the charges in the bill should be direct
and positive, and any irregularity in the hill or affidavit is not
waived by tiling an answer; nor can such defect be supplied at
the hearing. Perkins v. (iollrm, Z Gr. (‘h.. 482. A notice lo dis
solve " for rreguiarity in the proceedings." is bad. The notice
should state the irregularity.
Miuer v. Trapluznm, 2 Hal. (‘Ii.
200. H1’Dll‘1l v. ll'inm1..r,3 Sioclc. 287. A defendant in asuit at
law, who asks a court lof equity to assume jurisdiction of the
litigation, on the ground that the remedy at law is inadequate,
is not obliged to give security merely because he asks the change.
Ely v. Crane, 10 Stew. 157.
(c) A noiice is good though dated on Sunday. Taylor v.

without any notice having been given ofan up lication to dis

Thomas, l (Ir. flh. 106. See Scott v. Dow, ‘Z Gr. 350. A parry is
entitled to notice ofa motion for the ap ointment ofa receiver.
Tibbcrlz v. .S'l'rgI'rmt, l Mc(i11-t. 449. An ofa motion to dismiss
because an appeal does not lie. Nnlimiul Bank of the ]ilr'lr0p0

allowed. he may, of his own motion. set it aside at anytime
solve.

'l“he statute, requiring eight days’ prev ous notice ofa

mouon to dissolve, has reference to motions made by a party.
(bnooer v. Ruck-man, Gﬁlrw. 303.
(d) As to the power oi‘ the court to restrain waste byiruuno
tion, seeS1mUu1rd v. Mon-Ls (‘hnal (b., SECT. 5lS. Scudder v_
Tr!-nlmu Drlauxrre Faun 00., Stu. 694. A mo
in posses

sion may be restrained.

Youlc v. Richards, Sax. 534.

or a

mortgagor. Emmom v. Hinderer. 9 P. E. Gr. 39. (lupqfll v.
lifllburn Land 1b., 10 C. E. Gr. 87. See Brirk v. Gdrlnpcr, 1

Hal. ('11. 391.

The ordinary use of the premises by the mom

gagor will not be restrained, as cuttin wood for the use oi’: hlb
nace. Den v. Jfinmy, 2 Soullt. ‘$52.
r working mines already
opened on the premises. (,lapn.er v. Fteminutan Mining (1)., 2
Gr. (Vi. 467. Or quarries. Venxrk-n v. Older, 4 Hal. Ch. 98.
Equity will not eniniu a suit at law for waste. Van S3/rlrcl v.

Emmju 3 l‘. E. Or. 387. Even after a sale ofthe premises under
aforeclosure. Phrrnlz v. Clark, 2 Hal. I'll. 447. Vfhere defend
ani, having been enjoined as tocutting certain timber on the

m v. Sprngur, 6 U. E. Gr. 458. Whether notice of an applim»

premism described n the hill, attempted l0 iustity himself on
the round that the cutting, ifany, was done on a iract of land

tion for an injunction shall be given, depends on no settled

not

mctice, but on the nature of each case. Burklej v. (lone, Sax.

nciuded in the bill, hut the

attachment issued.

Richards v.

roof was uiisarisiactorf. an

’ul,21r'1-. Ch. 456.

In u. bill

Ifan

ﬂied to restrain waste, complainant's title need not be set out at

lquily Judge has allowed an interlocutory injunction, which

length. ﬂu-eve v. Black, 3 Gr. Oh. 177. Bee Vanwtnkle v. Curtis,

.

See Rule 141.

Stnnickson v. Johnson, 2 Gr. (‘h. 874.

CHANCERY.

389

XI. Proceedings with respect to unsatisﬁed judgments at law.
88. That hereafter, whenever an execution against the property of a B""°""8¢°"°"Y

defendant shall have been issued on a judgment at law, and shall have R"s'92"
been returned unsatisﬁed, in whole or in part, leaving an amount or balance
remaining due exceeding one hundred dollars, exclusive of costs, the party
suing out such execution may ﬁle a bill in chaucery to compel the dis
covery of any property or thing in action belonging to the defendant in
such judgment, and of any property, money, or thing in action, due to him
or held in trust for him, except such property as is now reserved by law,
and to prevent the transfer of any such property, money, or thing in
action, or the payment or delivery thereof to the defendant,(a) except
when such trust has been created by, or the fund so held in trust has

proceeded from, some person other than the defendant himself. (b)

89. That the court shall have power to compel such discovery, and to Power tocompel
prevent such transfer, payment or delivery, and to decree satisfaction of ‘“"°°"°'Y
the sum remaining due on such judgment, out of any personal property,
money, or thing in action belonging to the defendant, or held in trust for
him, with the exception above stated, which shall he discovered by the
proceedings in chancery; provided, that if the personal property, money,
or thing in action, which shall he discovered as aforesaid does not amount
to the sum of one hundred dollars, no costs shall be recovered by the
plaintifff against the defendant in such proceeding. (r~)

90. That when a bill is ﬁled for the purpose aforesaid, and shall be duly Debtor may be
veriﬁed by the oath of the complainant therein, or_ his solicitor or agent,
that he believes the contents thereof are true. it shall be lawful for the
chancellor, in term time or vacation. forthwith to make an order requiring
the judgment debtor to appear, and make discovery on oath concerning
his property anti things in action, before a master in said court, to be desig
nated in said order, at a time and place in said order to be specified.
2 Gr. Ch. ~i2‘.’.. To effect a re ular service of an injunction, the
writ itself, under the seal oi the court, must beshown to the
party against whom it issues, and a true copy thereof delivered

to mm.

Personal service will be dispensed with where the

party is out of the state or cannot be fotmd.
Hm-ing v. l\'m4[f
man. 2 Bras. 397.
An error ot' judgment, in a matter far from
being apparent, is not such a violation of an explicit order as

ought to subject a party to attachment. In cases of doubt, it
will be referred to a master to ascertain anti report bciore the
attachment issues.
Nrwurlr Plank Rom! (h. v. Elmrr, 1 Slot-Ir.

75.3. Nor where there is no inlrvtlion to commita breach, al
though the act of the party is literally a breach. Fr-mo: v. Bur
Iﬂutnl, l0 (.'. E. In-.8-I.
Advice of counsel is no justification.
1~’|Iz{;n‘ttlti V. I.'l:ri.<ll, 5 I_.'. 1-.‘ I-'1'. 90. .‘i{rKllIop v. ’Ii1_|/low‘, l0 (’. la‘.
Gr. 39. That the injur_v com )lltiIIPd of was done be/ore the ser
vice of the injtmction on de endaut. and that his acts since then

have done complainant no further injury, will not, when those
at-ts were intended to make the injury complete, and the obvi

ous intention of the injunction was to prohibit defendant from
continuing the injury, relieve him. Thropp v. Firld, l0 l’. 1').
H1‘. 166. A party under an attachment is not conﬁned to his

answersto the interrogatories exhibited to hlm,but may exam
ine wittiesses to exculpaje himself.

Gr. I.‘li. 433

.1111;/enrtis v. Pill‘/rInu'.II, 3

Nlurr v. Fi.~hn-. i Hal. 305. \Vhiie a party is in

contempt for disobedience to an tnjunction,he cannot properly
have a Hearing on a motion for its dissolution, but when the

nature and extent of the punishment to be inﬂicted for such
contempt depend on the determination of the question whether
the injunction shall be continued or not, the hearing may be
allowed. 1'.'nlIiroll\'. Jlllflhin, I Slur/i‘. 110.
(rt) A plalntiii'orcreditor in attachment may file a creditor's
bill. Hint! V. l"n-lll. I .S‘lm‘k. 30. ii'iIliTmn.\r v. Miclu‘nm', 3
Him-I.-. -3'20. Robert v. Ilodgex, 1 C. la‘. Hr. 300. Curry v. (1‘Ius.w,
10 I.'. I-J. Gr. l0B. Jfrlrillr v. Brmrn, I Hm‘. 364. Or a creditor

by judgment in the circuit court of the 1.’. S. for N. J. or his
assignee.
i'nn:lrrwrr v. Slrylt-er, 4 lint. Ch. I75. But not it
creditor at large beforejudgment. Oakley v. Buml, l J[r('ur'f.
I73.
Wifltriy/lif V. Smifh, 2 C‘. ls‘. Hr. ‘Z59. HI»lrlr'rrlg/r \'.

(iwynru, 3 C. I}. Hr. 26.

llv'rrne_1/ v. Jlulinnry, 8 ('. 1'1. I-‘r. 247.

(‘an a creditor at large unltein abill with a judgmentcreditor?
}"lri.srltuuin V. i’mm_u, 1 .'5‘lor'lr. 6'32. if the creditor seek aid
against the real estaze of the debtor, he must show a judgment.
at law creating alien on such real estate; and if he seek aid
against the personal estate, he must show an execution giving
him a lien on the debtor's goods and chattels. Ilimor-rm;/li v.
lmlrnll, .'\'nr.
Ymmy v, I-‘rlrr, l Slnrk. 465. ])OI.lﬂ'|!'_l/ V.
}i't'n_IJ, '.'. Slork. 3%. Dunman V. Cb.r, 2 Stork. 437. -'\'uYI_t/Zl \'.
l~'u\n_uzr,l .S‘lm-k. 273. Ilrvrn \'. 7tmlum_ 4 I..'. 1'}. I,-‘r. 105; affirmed
on appeal. -l I’. }'.'. Ilr. 57-i, 8 6'. 1-.‘ I-‘r. 364. So, a party paying
an award must exhaust his remed_v at law before resorting to
equity.
ihllmnur v. ii'ln(m.I, 7 C. la‘. Hr. .581. A general creditor

examined.
P. L. 186-i, p. 704.

having ﬁled n. bill and atterwards having recovered ajudgment
and issued execution, was allowed to file a supplemental bill
showing these facts, even after a decree pro run.
Edgar v.
(‘lit-r'n_m'r, 1 Hr. Ch. 254, 2 Hr. Ch. 258. 464.
\Vhene three
creditors were proceeding against personal property alone, and
one ofthem afterwards obtained a judgment which was a lien
on the lands of the debtor, an amendment of the bill to intro
duce such stiiiseqtieiit judgment was not permitted. Lore v.

GI’!-llillgrr, 3 Hal. Ch. lili ; reversed on a. peal, 3 Hal. I'll. 639.
A purchaser under such judgment may
le a creditor's bill.
Sunth \’. }',‘sp_u, l Sleek. 160. See Thompson v. 1“.'ll{llf', 3 ”'l‘. I ‘ll.
‘Z71. 4\’ltfl'I.uu.|! Bunlc v. S';n'lmtu', 6 1'. Is‘. Hr. 453. As to the right
of the creditor in general, (‘ook v. John.ton, l Bros. 52.
Brown
v. Fuller, 2 limit. 271.
Jlrrhl v. Korgrl, 10 I ‘. la‘. I1‘:-. I35. New
man v. l'rm Iluyn, 15 S'llu'. -ilk’). -Slillwrll v. Slilluvll, 2 Dirk.
275. All the creditors who unite in the bill or are subsequently
admltted.areentitled to be heard and have their liens ro
tected.
Von)‘/ll‘l.'8 v. R1;/'m'll, 1 _\[rl'1lrl. 156. But in proceeding
under this act to collect the debtor's rhomr in nvliorl. no other
creditor can be admitted. The reliefcan he given only to the

creditor who pursues the statute. ll'lu'hir-y v. Robbins 2 ('. E.
Gr. 360. .-innin. v. Annin, 9 I‘. la‘. Hr. l8~i. Allrn V. llrnutrr-‘st,
14 Slww. I6‘). The return of the slierlffthat the defendants are
not, either in their partnership name nor as individuals, seized

or possessed of any estate, real or personal, on which he could
levy, is suﬂicient to give complainants a standing in equity.
Ra/ulolpli v. l)a(_u. l I‘. E. Gr. 3H. .-\ partner's interest in the
partnership property may be reached by a creditor‘s bill ﬁled
against hint individually. Xurimml Ban}: v. Spruum-,5 l.'. E’.
Gr. 16. \\'here A recovered a judgment at law and filed a
creditor's hill which was dismissed with costs, the judgment at
law cannot be set oﬁ‘ against the defendant's costs on the bill.
Bri.-dry v. Jones, 1 Hal. I'll. 5l2.
Where the judgments of
three creditors in ajustice's court amounted together to $103,

lu-Id that they could unite in a bill to set aside it i'ramiuient
transfer ofpcrsonai property. Lore v, I.'rlxin_m-r, 3 Hal. I'll. 191.
(fl) Where an annuity or fund held in trust for the debtor has
proceeded from some person other than the debtor, it is

exempt.

l"r(|zir‘r v. Barnum, 4 I‘. 1-,‘. Ilr. 317.

.-lrnwl'nr v.

(‘arr-oll,-i Hal. I'll. 6'30. A legacy in the hands of an executor
upon no trust except to pay it over to theie:.:utce, is not a trust
within the meaning of the ext-eptionofa trust created by some
person other than thedebtor hi|nself,land-is exempt. Baron v.
Bonhmn,i2 I.'. E. Gr. ‘.309.
}{l|rrlr"nInn'y/It V. Illtur, 3 Nlrw. 645.
I'brce v..Broum,5Sl15u'.118. See Adler v. Turnlmll .t' (U-. '3-3
Vr. 6'2.
) Ajudgment which is not founded on an actual debt or
other legal liability, due and enforceable at the time of its entry,
will not he upheld against the creditorsof the. judgment debtor.
Palmer v. .l!m'limlrll, iii St: w. 90. Sn!/1'6 v. lfilﬂ/iI‘8, 5 Sh u‘. 652.

390

CIIA.\'CERY.

Order to prevent
91. That if it shall appear by said bill, or by one supplemental thereto,
dtransfer of the
and by proof by the oath of the complainant, or that of any other person,
ebtor’s property.
.
.
.
.
1,,
that any person owes the said Judgment debtor, otherwise than for lll8
labor or personal services, or for the labor or services of any member of
his family, or holds money or property in possession or action, in trust for
him or i'or his use, except such property as is now reserved by law,or

when such trust has been created by, or the fund so held in trust has

Witliesses.

proceeded from some person other than the debtor himself, it shall be law
ful for the chancellor to make an order forbidding the payment of such
debt, or the transfer of said property or money by or to the said debtor,
until further order to be by him made.
92. That witnesses may be required to appear and testify concerning

lb‘

said matters, by either party, by subptena ad tcstilicandum, issued out of

W'hen receiver,

said court of chancery, and the said master may adjourn the said exami
nation from time to time, at the instance of either party.
93. That the said examination of said debtor and witnesses shall be

pendente lite,

certitied by said master to the said court of chancery, and thereupon it

appointed.

shall be lawl'ul for the said chancellor to appoint a receiver, pcndente lite,
of the property and things in action belonging or due to or held in trust
for said debtor as aforesaid, who thereby shall receive authority to possess,
receive and in his own name. as such receiver. sue for such property or
things in action; and the said chancellor may order said judgment debtor
to convey and deliver to such receiver all such property and rights in

Ib.

action and the evidence thereof; :md said receiver shall in all respects be
subject to the authority of the said chancellor, in accordance with the prac

tice of the said court, and shall and may dispose ol' the said property and
tliiugs in action in conformity with the iinal decree in said cause. (u)
Depositlons may
be used at ﬁnal
heating.
Proviso.

94. That either party, on the ﬁlial llearing of said cause, may use his

own deposition and that of the opposite party, or either of them, and the
deposition or depositions of any other witness or witnesses so taken as
aforesaid; ].ir0vz'dml, said party so intending to use the same shall lile with
the clerk of said court, within twenty days after the iiling,of said deposition
in the clerk’s office, a written notice of his said intention; and yirorirled
further, that the said deposition so designated would have been legal
evidence in said suit if the same had been taken after issue joined, accord
ing to the practice of said court.
.

Rules may be en
tered by consent.

XII. General provisions.

95. That all rules. common or special, bv consent oi‘ the parties or their
'
solicitors, shall he entered of course with the clerk, whether in term time

or in vacation.

96. That all amendments shall be made with or without costs, and on

Amendments.

such equitable terms as the said court shall direct. (Ii)
ta) Where a receiver may be appointed.
Hal. 1'h. 301.

ll'hi!nI'_|/

V.

I-‘nIh'r v. ’l‘oyIcn-, '.'

Robbim, 2 1'. 1'].

Hr.

364).

The

receiver. by virtue oi‘ his appointment, has no into-rest in real
estate held in trust for thejudgment debtor. Bout v. Iirun, 3
.DirIt'. 193.
tb) A mhpnma may he amended if by mistake it has been

antedated. 1)tll.¢In1n'r v. ll'r.¢tr'0!l, l0 1‘. E. 1r'r. 302.
A bill may be amended as to matter oi form as of course at
anytime before replication filed. Rm-kby v. Lil:-xv, Sa:r. 504.

B11I'11'!/ \'. -S'Iile*-Q. '2 G1‘. Ch. 245. Clo/linnton v. Biloll. 1 _iIc('art. 430.
Aﬁloprlrlirx. Hr'm'_u v. Brown. 4 Hal. 1‘h. '.‘.i5.

Pllllrllcy. -i Hui. 1'h. 511.

PlmnIr_|/ v.

tbtlinyllrm \'. Jloff, I .\lr'1'm"(. 43!.

Reed v. Reed. 1 C. J-.‘. Hr. 248. i\'1_v/anom‘ v. Long I)ocA-1b.. 2 1 '. E.
Gr. 169. 1>'£nir>r \'. Lnpvr, l0 1.‘. 1-}. 1v‘r. 475. Jfnrrison \'. Rowan,
4 Wash. 1'. 1'. ‘.’i'.l‘l. 1lom'ml \', ,lluIli.-on. 9 (‘_ ]-_‘_ Hr. 65. See },'oh

ﬂwln V. Doris. 3 a\'If:1'l\'.3U2.

But if the objection be delayed

until the final hearing it cannot prevail, ttilless the parties. are
Il0t'P!~=Rﬂl'_\' l0 the linal determination of the ' ausc. Von hm-en
\'- I\"*1'"W'". 1 1'. 1:’. Hr. ‘.256. .\'or can such parties be added In
the court oi‘ appeals .\'mc Jvr.v_v/ Pawn].-linirr 1'0. v. .4»/ux, l
Burs. -507. 1'1/ll: 1' V. 'I'n/Hr, -I 1'. la‘. H1‘. Sill. Ifvrr://nnn V. Hr!!
hlt‘/Il, ii 1'. ]'.'. Hr. 370, rhnl;-n, .lIc[,uu_r/hlin \’. l'~n I\'rl/1'n|,6. 1’. 1-,’.
(fr. 379. See Blur‘/.‘ \'. lwI.- unrl Rm‘. Hum! 1'n.. ii 1'. I-.'. 1-'1'. 456.
Nor if the non-joinder renders the del't-ndant llahlcto further

litleiuion. V1011)‘/I1’1.\ v. 311'/I.1'lt'. to 1'. 1~:. 1.";-. .'»'_’-‘l. \vnert- ll mu is
dt-i'eellve for want ofproper parties, the appropriate l'PiIl|-ll_\' is
it demurrer, or an objection at thehearint: for tvnnt ofpartn-s,
and not n petition to he admitted to defend the suit. ..‘lfIl(‘k v.

jllclick, ‘.1 1'. E. Gr. l.-36. Junm V. ll'a'nrm.w, 5 1". H. Gr. 96. Or the
court may, on its own motion, amend, or stay the proceedings
until the amendment he made.
Von l\'mn-en v. _1!cI.mi_ahlin, 6
1'.
Hr. 163,137..
An agreement between the solicitors to
amend, there beinz no aim-ndment actually made, cannot
avail.
il'il.con v. King, 8 1‘. Is’. Gr. 150. A demurrer will lie
where the husband is improperly joined with the wife as it
party. Johnson \'. Vail, l .i!c1'~n'I.~i'.’.4. -‘lIr'ln'r/nolr v. Prrnrh, '2

J!c1‘m‘I. 78.

.P€mlI:Ion \'. li'omIIum.9r'. 9 1’. I-.'. hr. -‘HT. Ur it may

be assigned as cause for demurrer, ore hrms, at the argument,
although ll general demurrer for want ofeqnlty he overruled.
Borrrt v. Doughty. l0 1'. E. Hr. 379. Another defendant cannot
demur; the objection can only he made by the partiesthem
selves. Jlillrr v. Jmuirxon, 9 1'. E. Hr. -tl. A 2|-nernl demurrer
will not lie, where the demurrant is a Pl"t)tlPI'l\llllﬁll|._'ll not a
necessary party. Dm~.<In‘mm- \'. I-.’m-hm-I.-_ S I‘ E. Gr. -I6, 10 17.
E. Gr. 516. Amendment may he made where there isa mis
nomer oi‘ the complainant. Jlollokrn I»'m'filing Association v.
Mm-rin. 2 Bras. 427. \\'nere collusion between a trustee and his
|nortt..'a:_'ee was shown.
Hrmju v. Brown, -i HoI.1‘h. 245,
\\'here complainant ﬁles a bill foraizeneral account and do
fendant sets up a stated one. Brown v. Hm In/kw, -i Hal. 1"h.
795. ‘so. an omission made in the bill by lnndvcrtence. Del.
and Hm‘. 1'd1mI. 1'0. V. Rm‘. and Drl. Bay R. It‘. 1‘u.. l .l!"1"n1'(_
-H-'1. .Vr'1'l(mr V. .8‘/lrplirrvl, 6 1'. E. 1}'r. 76. 1\'m'm't V. Prrrinrt,
6 1'. E. Hr. l0l. S‘/ni//i v. Amh-ll, §‘u.r. -I94. To set up the actual
contract. although different from the written one between the

parties. Lanning v. Hmrh, 101.’. E. Gr. -l'.’..3.

\Vhere the truth

.

(JHANCERY.

391

97. That parties to suits in chancery shall take notice at their peril, of Noticeto be taken
the filing of answers, demurrers, pleas. replications and other pleadings, of the ﬁling of
pleadings.
and of’ the pronouncing and signing of decrees.

98. 'l‘hat witnesses in the court-of chancery shall he allowed the same
fees as. by law are allowed to witnesses in the supreme court.
99. That the court of‘ chancery may sendany matter of law to the
supreme court for its opinion to he certiﬁed thereon.
100. 'l'hat if any matter of fact shall render the intervention of a jury
necessary-', then the court of chancer_v is hereby authorized to direct an
issue for the trial of the same in the supreme court. (a)

Fees of witnesses.

Reference to
supreme court.

Issue may be tried

by ill?!‘

was not disclosed by the answer, nor discovered until the evi

Society v. Laird, 9 C‘. E. Gr. 319 ; affirmed, ll C. I-2. Gr. 532. Or by

dence was nearly closed. .Houv"Il v. Scoring, 1 .»‘lfc('m't. 84.
Even after prooftakeu. where the defense set up raises a new

reducing the amount for which the decree had been taken, by de
ducting the interest on a mortgage, which had been paid but not
credited. Cifizmts’ Jnx. Co. V. Brillon, l0 (.'. E. (Ir. 331. Refused
where the onlyallegatlon was that defendant wasunacquainted

imue.
Von Ripcr v. ('lrI:rl0n, 1 ﬁork. 302. Complainant can
not raise a new issue by amendment; he must fileasnpple

mental bill. Se;/mour v. Long Dock 1b., 2 1.’. 1.’. Gr. 170. In
ontler to make the bill correspond with tht-‘proofs. Smith V.
Azirll, Snr. -I98. Dtwtson v. I)dvI.son, 2 Ileas. 2-iii. Sr)/nmur V.
Long Dock (10., 2 C. Ia’. (Pr. 170. Arrnslrmirl V. Ross, 5 ('. I-J. Gr‘.
I10. Ilumpfnn V. J\'ichol.mn, 8 C’. E. Gr. 4'33. S0, if complain
ant wishes to avail himself‘ of a fact alleged in the answer.

Bvrklcy \'- "um. -sm. 504.

H01!’ v. Bard, 2 1'. E. Gr. 201.

After a demurrer complainant ma_v amend. Jlfarsh v. Mrwrsh,
1 CI E. Hr. 392. After issue joined amendments are discretion
ary. -S‘->_wnrmr v. I/my Dock (‘o., ‘.’. I‘. 12'. 11'1". 170. The com
plainant cannot dismiss his own bill as to part of the relief
prayed for, and proceed with the residue: he must amend.

(hrndrn and Amboy R. R. ('0. V. Stewart, -I C. E. Gr. 69.
Nor can he do so after a decree determining the rights of
others has been made.
fbtlins v. Taylor, 3 Gr. (f'h. 163.
A second

plication

amendment can

disclosing its

only be allowed upon

nature and verified

an

ap

by affidavit

showing complainant has not been in lnchrs. Buckley v.
(bras, Stu". 504. \\'here three judgment creditors in a jus

tice's court unitedin a bill against the debtor to set asidea
fraudulent transfer of his ersonal property, and one of them
afterwards recovered anot ier judgment which was a lien on
the defendant's lands, an amendment to permitsuch subse
quent judgment to be included, was refused. Lore v. 6‘rLn'n,m~r,

8 Hal. !.'h. 191.

On a bill for the specific performance of a con

tract for the exchange of lands, an amendment charging that
the contract was fraudu1ent,and asking that it be declared
Void, was denied. (.b(fI'Il{)fl)1l V .»lfotI., l .‘l!c!iu'I. 430. No alter
ation can be made in the bill on file after it has been sworn to;
the amended bill must be engrossed anew and annexed to the
original. Rule 71 and cases cited. See Sm!» Bunk v. Rrmlcr,
Hal. Din. ‘L31. A new subpoena is not necessa1'y where the de

fendant has not appeared.

Eljttlklblﬂ Life Ins. lb. v. Lm'rd, 9 (-'.

E. Gr. 319. Complainant cannot recover the costs of an amend
ment. although he obtain a decree to recover the costs of suit.

Hal. Inn. 240, Q1, 5. Qmry-Wiiether an amendment of a
bill at the final caring can be allowed, when such amendment
consists of facts that falsify materially

stated.

Thornton v. 0{1dr.n, 5 Slew. 723.

the facts originally

Bill may be amended

almost at any time, when the amendment is necessary in order

that the real matter in controversy may be fairly and justly
tried. Frmiv v. H(Iy(8, l7.S‘u.'w. 42.5. Bill cannot be amended
after ﬁnal hearing so as to make a new case, or to state a new
and additional claim to relief. Jones v. Davmporf, 18 St:-w. 77.
RULES 01-‘ Cll.\NCEBY, Sec. 66.
An nnsuvr may be amended as to matters of f'orm where

complainant will not be prejudiced thereby.

l'aml¢.~rtw~¢: v.

Reading, 1 Stock. 446. Jltlﬁnmn V. Ilmnvnz.-1*, 2 (I. E. Gr. 269.
Or to bring matters of defense before the court when defendant
has been misled by counsel. Burpin v. (H!n‘rs(m, 8 (7. E. Gr.
-I03. The amendment cannot be allowed for the purpose of
raising a new issue, or after the cause has been heard upon the
evidence. /‘nmpiun v. Kzllr, 1 .m-rim-r. 229. ‘Nor to set up an
inequitable defense as usury. Ib. and 2 Mr-l'nrt. 476. Rrmrr v.
-Sihatc, -4 Ilnl. ('h. 355. Pollard V. Smith, '2 Beds. 43. .’i!m'.rh V.
Lnshrr,
2 Bras.
V. Ilolcomb,
7 fl.
Hr.acted
565.
Hill v. Iblie,
l0 25-‘l.
Ii‘. E. Vmuirrrcrc
Hr. -I69. 1\"or
that complainant
ultra rir-r.v. Tlnrd Aw, Savings Iinnk V. I)imocI.', 9 f‘.1~.‘ Gr.
28. Nor after the testimony is closed and the cause set down,
unless the delay is satisfactorily accounted for. and good reason

given.

-S‘nuIll.tt'00¢l v. I/win, 2 Ilms. 123. Nor to set up an

agreement of which defendant alleges hewas ignorant when he
releasn.-d certain goods on which he had a levy. 12¢-ll v. Hull, l
Ilal. /‘h. -I9. 'I‘he amendment must be made on affidavit of‘ the
matter to be inserted. Ih.
And by filing a supplemental
answer without altering the original. liuﬂrmln v. Ill!/mm"l', 2
C‘. L‘. ﬁr. ‘£119. Answers should be amended cautiously, and
leave should never be granted except when necessary to the
doing Of justice. .llr."rImnfr.w’ Bonk V. Ilurnrl .Vf_n. ('0 , 5 i\'tv'u'.
‘Z36. An answer maybe amended even after the announce
ment of the decision of the cause. Amrit v. ll'rI¢-J1, 1 Incl.-. -‘A3.
Answer may be amended to set out an instrument material to
the defense. Arnmul v. I-‘ri_uu.<, 1 N. J. L. J. 14.
A rlrlnurrr-r may be amended, if general, and the party de
sires to raise a question of form. Jlfnrsh V. Jlfrtrsh, l C. 1'}. Gr.
89'}. Jlillrr v. J(|77H'r.tun, 9 C‘. E. Gr. -ii.
A plra may beamended,wherein mailers ofacconni material
averments have been omitted. _‘lI-rrkcr v. J[ﬂr.</4, Sax. 198. As
that the account isjust and true.
Driyms v. f.r'(l7‘l‘€l.\’(I1l_, 10,0. L‘.
Gr. 178.
A an-rrr. may be amended, before enrollment, or where
taken ]/1'0 mn., for the purpose oi‘ rectifying mistakes apparent
on its face, or where there is a clear case of surprise and merits.
Dorxhrimrr v. Il'm'bm-Ir, 9 (..'. I-J. Gr. 33.
Jar/rum V. Ii'l:uv(|ll-, ll)
C. L‘. /ir. (iii. Or if entered b_v mistake, or procured b_v fraud.
King v. Rurl.-1nnn, 7 C’. 1-,‘. Hr. 551. Or by altering the directions
as to the manner ofselling mortgaged premises. Equitable Li/»:

with the proceedings of the court. (,itrpc'nt/"r v. )'iItu.'lnn01'¢', 2 lilo
(Lhrt. 1'2.‘ . And where he neglected an o aportunity to defend him
self‘. Jltllcr v. HUd,3S!ock. '25. Ifdefendant in a foreciosurelis not
personally liable, an amendment rendering him so will not be
allowed
I~.'mbur_u v. 1?rr{mnum',9 C’. I2‘. Gr. 2.18. Nor to fix it
gnarantor‘s liability, when the remedy at law is adequate.
Jarmon v. ii'1'sn_'aII,9 C. I-.'. Gr. 267. The amendment must be
made by bill of revivor. (,‘rn'pe‘nlcr V. Alurlinmrr, '2 JIM ‘turf. 123.
Scott v. Blaine, Bald. .1‘. I’. '.’.s7. And on petition and notice.
Jarmmt v. ll~'i.~:n'all. 9 (7. I-.'. Hr. 69. An enrolled decree may be
altered through a bill of review, where there is a plain mistake
of law a parent on the rt-cord in view of the uncontested evi

dence.

ours v.Fayeru.-ml.h¢1-, 1 Dirk. 237.

itur.1='.s or CHAN

Cl-ZRY, Secs. 66-71.
(0) The awarding of an issue rests in the discretion of the
court, and should be sparingly exercised.
Trmltm Bunk v.
lVooriruﬂ', 1 G-1'. Ch. 118. Rlu.v(t' V. Johnson, '2. Gr. f"h. 417.

Blnrk v. Lamb, 1 Bras. 106; 2 Bear. -I56.

(.in"li.sle v. (boP"‘. 6

(.'. E. Gr. 577. 1{n,orr!y V. Lee, 18 Stew. ‘.55. The court decides
facts and law, unless there is contradictory evidence. Miller

V. li'ac/t', Snzr. 205. H1'(1lr¢"!h V. Sclulliny/rr, 2 Stock I96.

CYl1'li.1l¢

V. (Jooper. fl C. E. I-‘r. 577. Holcomb v. Mmtancrs of .lJri<i{u-. (b.,
1 Slock. 457. Or where neither party has applied for an issue
and all the testimony has been taken and submitted. Dmton
V. Lultlrll, 8 C. L‘. or. 64. 'l‘he court. may refer a disputed
question of fact to the decision of a jury, on its own motion.
Black \'. Lamb, 1 Baas. 108.
(FHr]'n*nfe'r V. .F.'axlmt and .~l~mbo_i/ R.
R. Cb , 9 C’. E. Gr. 408. See .-iltorrtry-I';mtm'rtl v. Iimxliort, 3 C. E.
Gr. -113. An issue will not be awarded where the amount in
controversy is small. fmrwood v. 1',‘(drldge,i (Ir. Ch. 290. A
court of equity, to effect justice, may settle unliquidated
damages.
Cort:-r v. ﬂfunrort 00., 1 Gr. Oh. 467.
Or decide
whether a lunatic is restored to sanity. flint!/"r of Roym-s,1 Hal.
Ch. 46. Ur determine whether defendant has lowered his darn.

(1|.l'I1'.'tIP v. (,'o0p(r,3 C. I}. Gr. 241. 6 C. E. fir. 577.

Nor is it

necessary that a nuisance be first established by a verdict
at law before an injunction can issue. 1)uncan v. Ila;/es, 7 C. E.
Gr. 25. Dmlon v. Lfrlrfrll, 8 (-'. E. Hr. 64. So, where commis
sioners to appraise lands taken by a railroad company did not
estimate complainant-‘s damage arising from a high embank
ment---Hrul, that the court could determine the compensation.
G;n'pen(rr \'. Easton and .imbo_v/ R. It’. 1b., 9 C. E. I31‘. ‘.249. And
the matter was referred to the same commissioners, but the
court, being dissatisfied with their report, ordered an issue.
S. ('., 9 I‘. E. hr. 408. An lame was ordered where the value of
the premises in question was disputed. Trernlmt Bank v. .‘lfr1\'rl
1('n_t/, -l Hal I'h. 84. So, to ascertain whether an assignment of
a mortgage was absolute or conditional. Ftslrr v. Porch, 2 Stork.
2-l3. Proceedings where complainant's title is disputed. Man
ners V. Jifrtrtrtm-.s, 1 Hr. f'It. 38-i. Obrrt V. Obrjrt, 1 Jﬂtl. l.'h. 397,
2 Stock. 98. Lucru v. King, 2.\‘1ock. ‘.277. Ihlnirr v. /'11:)» rson, 2
1". B. fir. 204. Dewitt V. Ar'I.':rn|rtn,‘.’ /7. H.117‘. 2i-5. Ility V.
Eslell, 3 ff’. E. Gr. ‘J-51. Rl'tv'rt'lr-'u' /'Hm'1v-ry (b. V. Turnrr, 9 f". E.
Hr. ls‘. A denial of‘ complainant's right or an adverse user
set up, will not entitle defendant to an issue before the allow
ance of an injunction. Jlohonnn V. Boiling Spring I'o.,l Jin
!;.'nrl. 335. The trial may be under the direction of the chancel
lor, either by a feigned issue, or by an action at law brought and
prosecuted as he may direct. Der/.-rr v. (..‘a..wI.-r_i1,.S'o.r. 4'37. lie
may order a special jury. Basset! v. Johnson, 2 Hr. Ch. 417. Or
direct the court to which the issue is sent for trial to disregard
the strict rules of law, and although competent testimony has
been rejected, illegal evidence admitted, and thejud_'.:e has mis
directed the _iury, he is not bound to grant a new trial. Blm-Ic
V. Lamb, 1 Bras. 108; Black V. .S'hrcw, 2 Ems. 456. Defendant
may plead anew, on payment of costs, after It demurrer to
the declaration has been overruled.
Johnson ads. Rowan
1 Jfu-r. 266. The judge before whom the issue is tried should
not only return the posrru, but also furnish the chancellor
with a statement of the trial,containing the general charac
ter oi‘ the evidence offered, the part objected to, and his
decision on those objections, together with his charge to
the jury, and the chancellor may call upon him for an addi
tional report. Brim--It V.Jﬁhnson, 1 Hr. I'll. 15f. Trrnlrm Imnkv.
1\'osw‘Il. 1 Hr. ('11.. 492. No exception can be taken at NM Prius
to the manner ofconductlng the trial ; it must be made before the
chancellor after the return of the cause. Illlrrisrm v. I.'ou'nn, 3
li'(|sh. I’. I’. Fish. Objection to the form oi’ the issue cannot be
_ made after the trial. Block v. I.amb,l Irma. 108. 'I‘he chan
cellor is not bound by the finding of the jury unless his jud ment approves it. (my/ell V. Jlanayrrm of ]f1'ivf{n‘ In, l Sim‘ .
457. .\'or the court of appeals. I"r¢v‘n1mt V. Slants. 1 Srock. 816.
A new trial ofan issue at law may begranted by the chancellor
if‘ he is (iiFL~'utisi'ied with the evidence. or (or other reasons.
l[m'1'i.w-on V. lt’ou‘un, 3 Wash. f‘. ('. 580, 4 ll'(lsh. f‘. (.'. 3'1. But 110i.
if he be satisfied that the verdict is right, although the judge

misdirected the jury.

Trenton Bank V. Russell, 1 Gr. Ch. 511.

392

CHANCERY.

Compensation of

101. ‘That whenever the chancellor shall deem it necessary to call to his

oﬁicers called in,

assistance the chief justice, or any justice or justices of the supreme court,
or one or more of the masters in chancery to advise with, upon the hear
ing of a cause or an argument, or upon matters of importance, or when
any matter shall be referred to any of said officers, pursuant to the general
rules of said court, or to any special order or decree in any cause, matter,
or proceeding depending therein, the fees for such services shall be pro
portionate, as nearly as may be, to the actual value of such services, and
shall he regulated by the chancellor from time to time.

&c., by chan
ceilor.

P. L. 1870, p. -13.

Moneys brought
into court to be
deposited in bank.

102. That it shall and may be lawful for the chancellor to cause any
monies brought into court, to be deposited by the clerk, in his name as
clerk of said court, in one of the banks of this state, to the credit of the

cause to which it belongs, or to be invested in any public stock of the
United States; and the monies so deposited, or public stock in which it

Punishment for
contempt.

Clerk to account
for fines.

Costs discre
tionary.

shall be so'invested, shall be, from time to time, accounted for, invested,
transferred, or re-invested, or otherwise disposed of, as the court shall
deem reasonable an_d proper; and on the resignation, death or removal of
the clerk of the said court of chancery, all monies deposited in either of
the said hanks by the said clerk, shall he carried to the account of his
successor in oﬂicc, and the said hank shall take notice thereof, and transfer
such accounts accordingly; and the chancellor may, from time to time,
make such rules and regulations respecting such deposits and investments
as to him shall appear just and right, and for the interest of all persons
and parties concerned therein. (a-)
193. That to enforce obedience to the process, rules and orders of the
court of chancery, where any person shall be in contempt according to
the law, practice or course of the said court, he shall for every such con
tempt. and before he be released or discharged from the same, pay to the
clerk in chancery, for the use of this state, a sum not exceeding ﬁfty
dollars, as a ﬁne l'or the said contempt; and the said person being in court,
upon process of contempt or otherwise, shall stand committed and remain
in close custody until the said process, rule or order shall be obeyed and
performed, and until the tine so imposed for such contempt with the costs,
be fully paid. (b)

104. 'l‘hat the clerk in chancery shall account, on oath, and pay annually
to the treasurer of this state, the ﬁnes which he shall have received by
virtue of this act.
105. That except where it is otherwise directed by this or some other
act of the legislature, it shall be in the discretion of the court of chancery
to award costs or not; and the pa_vment of costs, when awarded, may be

compelled by writ of ﬁeri facias or capias ad satisfaciendum, issuing out of
the said court, or by subpmna and attachment. (c)
The party applying for a new trial cannot 0bject that the issue
is not broad
andv.that
other injuries
ought
included
in enough,
it. Basset!
Jolmxon,
1 G1‘. It'll.
151.to have been
'1‘he party
applying for a new trial prepares the case and submits it to the

sol cttor of the adverse party, and if they cannot agree the case
must be settled by thejudge before whom the issue was tried.
T,-mum Bunk v. Rmsrll, 1 Hr. I'h. 492. Costs do not follow the
verdict as of course, but are in the discretion oi‘ the court.
D0-kw.-r v. Cuskey, 2 Gr. Ch. 4-46. An order, made at the ﬁnal

hearing for an issue, is appealable. .\'mm~k and N:-w York R. R.
Cb. v. Jluyor, ({'t.‘., of .\'¢.'u-ark, S C. E‘. I_;'r. 515. But a writ of error
will not lie to bring up an order for an iasue, to determine. in a

contest between execution creditors, whether certain judg
asnts were i'raudulent.

.’l’radrsm.rn‘s Bank V. Fttircltilds, 3 V1‘.

(u.)_ Interest on money ordered to be paid into court and paid

in with such money, by the purchaser, not allowed him, he
having been in possession of the pl‘ti'tTllSPS ever since the making
of the order. Phillips V. Ilrlmlmld, ll C’. E. Hr. 202. \\'here the
sum deposited was 88.000 and the amountot‘ complainant's dam

ages, i$'>,00t)—}{rl1l, that upon the payment of$5,()00 with interest
and costs, the balance could not he retained for the faithful per
formance of the other requirements oi‘ the decree. l'urpmlr1' V.
1-,'u.ct:.m am! --imhoy R. R. Ih., 1 lS‘!(u‘. 390. See I burr V. !v'ih!u/flit,
2 _\~'. J. L. J. 47. See Rt'l.l~‘.H oi-‘ ClIA1\'('.‘F.RY,St>(?S. 113, 3-i, 101,210.
(I1) An attachment i'or contem it was dischartzed where the
complainant had failed to exhlbt lnterrotzatorit-s within the
time limited by the rule. Juwtl V. Drinryer, 1'2 I’. E. Hr. 271.
\\"ht-n a party has disobe_ved an injunction oi‘ this court to the
injury oi‘ another party, resulting in damages unliquldated in
their nature and not ascertalnable by the machinery of this

R. 6b.. 3 I)t'ck.1(L5. See Dodd v. Una, l3 Steu.'. 672. An order to
show cause why a party be not committed for contempt is to be
ﬁled, with the aﬁidavits on which it is founded, assoon as pos
aible, with the clerk of the court, and must, before lhrther pro
ceedlntrs are had, be actually signed by the chancellor. Dowden
v. Jzui/t-1'1-, 3 1)ir'k. 564. The payment of a counsel fee cannot be

imposed upon a party held in contempt by the court of chan
cery, as a punishment. 0’Rom'k¢ V. ('lrw'I<tml, -I Iiifk. 577. A
party in contempt cannot be adjudged to pay costs and counsel
fee, and then to await further punishment to be imposed at a
future period, if the court shall think proper. O'Rourke V.
('l¢"I‘f. land, -I Dick. 577.
(0) A successful party is entitled to costs. Jiat. Dig. 210, Q 3.
('a"m1n(t-rm V. TI‘lI]'!h(‘!ﬂ1’7l, -5‘a;r. 230.
Btu'A-try V. (in'.-w, 80.1.‘. 505.
Loss v. l.)h1~_u, 7 1.’. E. Hr. 52. But not where the act oi‘ the party
led to the controvers_\_', and great and unnecessary expense was
occasioned by examining numerous witnesses.
-'s'hi¢.-ids v.
Armlf, 3 Hr. ('h. 235. Nor on the foreclosure of a mortgage
where more than the legal rate oi‘ interest has been exacted and
mid. hand v. lt1tt.wlr1.l, 8 I‘. 1~.'. H1‘. lHl. Complainant cannot
ave his bill tllSl'l1l.‘iS£'(l without costs, unit-as by consent. Fisher

v. Quirk, l Stork. 312.

\Vhere parties settle out of court, with

out any agreement as to costs, neither party is entitled to them.

B|'I|(‘(' V. Hair, 2 Imtx. ‘Zll. Where each party is in default each
must pay his own costs. ]{(l!'r|'.mn v. I-H,’/Ian-r, 3 Stork. 389.
Smith V. Ilrowrl, 3 1111!. "ll. -'>'.1ti. Jloore V. Vttil. 2 liens. 2982 lS'k‘t'1.L
man V. .S'A-illman, ‘.2 .l1<~/tn-I. 389. Ho where each is partially suc
cessful. 1"uir(-hilt! V. Jlunr, l .~l[c/‘arr. 357. lwlvlirmlun V. Iltelt,
3 Siva". -‘H0. In cast-s of doubt on qttestiotts nrisintz from the
construction or probate of wills, costs will be allowed out ofthe
estate. See Ultl'HA.\'H' Ct)i'lt'I', Sec. 169, and cases cited. Craig

court. it will not. in the absence of special circumstances, com

v, ,i!mnun_0, -i Hat. l'I|. 806.

mit the oil'ender until he cotnpensale the injured party, but

Slurklnnrar V. Horton, 2 J11“! hrl. 202. ]\'rrlr'r V. J\'1‘v'lr1', 3 C‘. ll
(Ir. 267. Attorney-I_-'e1urat V. Afoore, -i 1.’. 1~.'. (1'r.50<i. JCICODH-I

leave:~; the latter to his remedy at law.

Jhompson V. Penna. R.

Home V. Hranl, 2 Hr. (,'h. 629.

393

CHANCERY.
106. That subpmna to hear judgment, attachment with proclamations,
and commission of rebellion, shall, in all cases in chancery, he deemed
unnecessary, and omitted accordingly.

107. That the oliice of register in the court of chancery be, and it is

Certain proceed
ings abolished.

Oﬁioe of register
abolished.

hereby abolished.

108. That it shall not be necessary for the clerk in chancery to register
any rule, order or decree, or any master's report, that may be made in any
cause or proceeding depending or hereafter to be brought or prosecuted in
the said court of chancery; nor shall any fees he allowed or taxed for
registering any such rule, order, decree or report.
109. That it shall be the duty of the chancellor, from time to time, to
make such rules and orders to regulate pleadings and practice in the court
of chancery , as may, in his judgment, render the practice and proceedings
therein more efficient, expeditious and simple, and prevent unnecessary
cost and delay, and that, for that purpose, he shall have full power to
change and regulate such pleadings and practice. (a.)

Certain rules, &c.,
not to be regis
tered.

Chancellor to
make rules.
P. L. 1852, p. 256.

1

U

v. Jticobiui, 5 Ij'. E. Gr. 50. ll{umi v. .‘l[imn., 5 I '. B. Ifh". 472.
Slack V. Bird, 8 I‘. E. Gr. 238. Blllffilllin v. Batnmm, 9 f’. 1'.’.
Gr. 70. Gulirk v. Gullrk, l0t'. E. 1r'l'.3?.5. But not where the
necessity for tiling the bill was caused by the misconduct of
the party. Post v. Steivmi, 2 Ems. ‘Z93. Or the stilt is brought
in bad faith by complainant. iS'h€phI‘1‘d v. J[t‘1'llIl'n, 3 ('. B. Hr.
129. Or the orphans’ court exceeds its jurisdiction. Skillmon
v. Skiltmtm, 2 .i{cI.tirt. 389. So wherethe construction sought for
was against the obvious intent of the testator. ]'2l,u v Ely, 5 ('.
E. Hr. 4-i. Or where the contestants continue the litigation un
reasonably. mum v. TOtt’1ll(‘1/, 6 I’. E. Hr. 355. And wherethe
bill was ﬂied for the recovery of an estate and the will had been

made under the undue inﬂuence oi‘ complainant.

L]/1I(.‘h v.

('lmu~rits, 9 ('. E. Hr. 4-‘ll. Where a second stilt is brou ht forthe
same cause of action, the proceedings will be staye until the
costs of the ﬁrst suit are paid. Sam-.w v. Jcicksoii, 3-‘toe-Ir. 45.
I"[)(l_llk1.’ v. B(l1‘llt'8, 2 Bras. 2Jil. See Van li'ullrcrt.ocrgh V. Hchwtw
Bunk, 4 Hui. f'h. 560. Den V. BI'(l(‘IHi,4 li'a.th. I‘ 1'. 578. Costs
will be denied where two stilts, as ejectinent and an action on a

bond, are brought for the same cause. (.)Ildr‘1‘d0)l-/t‘ v. Iv'rny, -i I‘.
E. Hr. 69. See I bpp¢‘rthu‘ai't¢' v. Dummcr, 3 }{ar. 258. 1"i~ec1iitin V.
Slants, 4 Ilnl. I ‘Ii. Si-t. (.YnlI)l‘I.’I' v. ( 'rm0i'¢*r, Sax. 403. Where two
mortgages covering the same premises are foreclosed by two sep
arate bills, costs on one onl_v will be allowed. .I)r:niort-st v. Brrr;/,
1 I‘. I-.‘. Hr. 48!. The costs of an issue at law are discretionary.

]'I‘1"N!/ \'. Noble, 2 Iv'~r. I.'h. ~i-I6. 1.'(I1‘1)4“1ll(’1‘ V. Eu.-tton and .-lmboy
R. R. I.b., l Stew. 390. \Vhere complainant is in lnrlwshe will be
charged with costs. Pnndall v. .=lforr('ll, 2 t'. I-.'. hr. 3-13. But not
where the party at fault is acting for minors. r(l7l(ll|_i/ll!’ v. l'mi
duynv, i I’. E. Gr. 93. \\"here the construction ofa new statute
is sought, costs will not be allowed against the appellant. would
v. Tinolry, l ('. E. Gr. 501. When irrelevatit evid nce is taken
and the examination unnecessarily protracted, tieit er costs nor
counsel feesahould be allowed fortakingsnchtestimony.
Win
trrmutc v. Wilson, 1 Strut. 437. Where the volu me of evidence,
talten before a master is swelled by testimony taken by the pre
vailing party, which is unimportant or irrelevant and taken
with needless prollxity, court will disallow costs and expenses
oi’ printing same. Yard v. Orr.-‘an Bmr-h .-lssoritltlun, -i Dirk. 306.

Rm-knuni v. Rm-/mian, 6 Stew. 35-t.

\Vhen a suit is necessary in

Exceptions to master’s report. Samifortl v. (lurk. 11-91811?
655.
Execution, motion to set aside.
McPhci'.9o1i v. Housrl, 2
Brax. 209.
Executors not to pay. Iiiffnrd v. Thorn, iStock. 702. Shep

herd v. JlcC'tal1n, 3 I‘. E. Gr. 128.

Norcross v. Boulton. 1 HGT

310. Stack v. Bird,8 1'. E. Gr. 238. Except where iheyhﬂye
been grossly negligent. Eperton v. Jfgm-ton, 2 ('. L. l:'r.4‘~0
.L¢-'rcIi V. Obcrly, 3 If’. E. I-H‘. 581 Titus V. Titus 3 Stew. 90. S80

Oamuss‘ Ckiuirr, Sec. 115, and cases cited. ti
Fees, counsel, allowed.
(1) On application for alimony. Paterson v. Ptltfrson. 1 Hal.
I ' Ii.
Anlltony V. Anthony, 3 Stock. 70. Vt‘t'-"lIltld- V- JIl<'0h"~'iv
4 Ii‘. E. Hr. 233. When denied. Ballentimi v. Battentinz. 1 Hat.
Ii‘h. -t7l. I)oughert_i/ v. Dounhvrty, 4 Hal. Ch. 540. .*l[c1;'u-an v.
.i[rEit'ri1i,2 Stock. 286. Vrerlarul v. Vrcrland, 3 Ii’. E Ir'1'. 43

(2) Divorce. Amos v. Amos, 3 Hr. (I'h. l7l. Jifarker v. Jifdt‘/~'<‘1'»

3 Stock. 251. Clare v. C'l(l1'I?, 4 0. 1:. Gr. 4|. When denied
Beobie v. Bcgoie,3 Ilut. Ch. 100.

__

(3) Executors. Whitmiack v. Strg/kc1',1 Gr. Oh. 9. limp v.
Berry, 2 Gr. I"h. 261. Day v. Day, 2 Gr. Ch. 550. 7 tarkhouse_v.

Jiorton, 2 .l[c(‘rn't. 232. Jrirobwt v. Jac0bu.1,5 C. E. Iir. 50. F148
v. it'anatta,6 C. E. Hr. 87. \\’hen denied. Pursrt v. Pufﬁﬁlvl
.11:-Ctirt. 516. See Hribttml v. M'rr?Irr‘r. 3 C. E. I1‘r.i~ii.
(4) Guardian. Burnham v. D(tIIi'n.{),3 C. Gr. 135. \\’hende
nied. Run/ctr v. Hole, 3 Htil. Ij'h. 101.
(5) Partition. I.'olr.s- v. Ibles, 2 Bras. 365.
(6) Trustee, denied. Ifolrombv‘ v. Holcombr. 2 Baas. 415.
Felgned issue. Although said to be discretionary, the rule is

they follow the suit.

I'arpente-r v. Eaxton and Amboy R. R. 1b-v

1 aS‘tFU'. 3%.

.

uuardian must pay when he fails to account. B urnham V.
.l)nUi'ug, l C‘. E. Gr. 310.
Lunacy. .l!r1tte‘1' of White, 2 C. E. Gr. 274. See Oonov¢"r V
Ibnowr, 3 Gr. 420.
Mortgagor. .-into, Sec. 71. note (ti). Where personally liable.

I)nnhury v. Robinson, 1 Ji[r'(hrt. 32-i. See Hartfordv. B0"/Md, 5
0.15‘. I;'r.10‘2..

RED!-LEM, in/ra.

_

Nuisance. Butler v. Rogm-.i,i Stock. -187. li'olrott\'..1{eliQk,
3 Stock. 2i5. Ifiiiu v. .‘i{m'ri's (mt! 1'.‘.ouf.r R. R. I'o., 3 C’. E._I11_'.

the proper administration ofa fund given by will, its costs and
a reasonable counsel fee may be allowed out ofthe fund. Noc’s

400. Allen V. .PI‘t:l’/i(1'((lt"7'8 of Jilonmoutli. 2 Berni. 75. 7111:?!-8/£16
v. Jt.‘-r.sr_u City R. R. U0 , 2 Boas. 3i9. Ilinchnuin V. Patrrson

._.'l(lI!H7||'.lII1‘t'Il1II‘ v. .'l!ilIr:r'..w l'.'rrcutm's. -i Stnr. 23-i. A solicitor who

H01-.en 1:. 1:. to. 2 0.

IN a party to it suit and appears in his own behalf, is entitled to

C. E. (Jr. 9-i.

the allowance made by the tee bill, except a retaining fee.
Flnru-A-er v. JI*r'm‘_u City, 6 Strw. 57. When defendants, in good

If’. E. Hr. 315.

faith, sever in theiransweni, each one may be allowed his costs,
although they employed the same solicitor. Putntlm v. Clark,
7
5i. G’r.iru'ood v. ]I(ll'll(_i/, 1'.‘ Stew. 78. Ii’ a hill is de
mu rrable and allowed b_v the defendant to proceed toa liearlng,
and then dismissed for want of equity, the dismissal will be
without costs. Jlawen v. Thylor, 8 Stew. -10. li'uUt-er v. ll’aII.-er,
9 Strw. 377. (‘ourtofappeais will relhse costatoa complainant
below when it appears that the costs have been lncrea.~=ed by
superfluous recitals and statements in the bill. Vliet v. li'_»/t-I.-qr, .
15 -S'tHI.=. ti»-i2. A map annexed to a bill or answer, the accuracy
of which is verified by affidavit, and used on an application for
injuncuon. cannot be taxed as an aﬂidavit. Boomem. v. North

11'"l-'"" 1'0tl11l.l/ I-'. Ii’ 00., 17 Strw. 70.

The allowance of co.-its

and counsel fees is in the discretion of the chancellor, to be
exercised on equitable principles, which. in their nature, forbid
an arbitrary rule by percentage. Unitrd, (i'f‘., Ins. I b. v. Smith,
6 lm-1:. 635.
(‘oats in particular cases.
Abatement. See AB.\'l‘i-l.\ll-l.\"I‘, p. 2, note (1-).
Alimony, Jlllllrr v. Jlitlrr, Sax. 387. .l£rillruti'ne: v. Bullentinv,
1 "Ill. I'll. M9.
-S'noiv'r v. §'mn'vr, 2 -\'to¢'k. 2tii, 2 .I1I*n.v. 261.
Amhulz v. Anxhutz, l I '. E. Hr. 162. (bry v. Iin'_i/, 3 -S'tor'k. 400.
Rt'I‘hmund v. Rirhrnonrl, l Hr. I'll. 90. See I tiumir v. Ihturne, 10
E.

(I"'- 548

Amendment.

Jfnl. Dig. 2-ii), H 1, 5.

Assistance, writ of. Vmimrtrr v. Bordm, 10 I‘. E. hr. 41-i.
Attachment for contempt. .l!umn1iis v. I’m'lrhm'xt, 3 Hr. ('1).
433- !'~'ee Jlr Ikrmutt ads. Stall‘. -'1 Hut. 63.
Decree, opening.
1<.'m(r_r/ v. Dou'm'n-g, 2 Bras. 59. (tram V.
Dennison, 2 Bras. -I38.
liemurrer. /lnIlrr.'u'.w V. Fhrtl, 3 IP11. (Vi. 489. 1‘[it'k-8 V. (hm);

1/U. 4 1'. Ia‘. Iir. I8-I. 7i‘rhmir V. .$ll<lI.an(l1t’. It‘. 1b., ll Stew. -i2. .
( _ D01“?-r, where title is disputed. Puhner v. (mperiimi, 2 I’. Ia‘.
vi’. L ¢.

Gr. as. Attoriwy-t”1'r‘m?i'al v. 13rown.9

\Vhen denied.

Cross v. Jfap/or of_2i!rn'ri-ttowtl. 3

lilo:-1'i’.~: I”imal- Ib. \'. I'it{rin, 7 1'. E. Iv'1'._ 433

]-Jttston v. New York and Long Branch R. R. (Foo 9 1'» 5- '-"'3 59
When to abide event. ('trvelonrl v. ('itizmx’ Hm Linht I:o., 5 C.
1-,‘, Hr, 202. _i[i1n.hutton Co. V. Van Krurcn, 8 C. H. Gr. 2-n.
Oiﬁcers, selling real estate, when grossly negligent. Johnson
V. Harrell. 1 C. E. G1‘. 31.
Partition. Colris v. 1'0ll’8,'Z Beans. 365. Jlntl v. Pittcock,6 C.
E. Hr. 312.
Payment of money int-0 court. State Brink v. I{0lromb,2 Hal.
193. See Earle v. 1-.'<ir!1-',‘i Har. 273. JR Ti‘!/he V. DWI". 7 0- E
Gr. Si. See 'I‘i-::~'~nt:tt, infra.
Printingthe case, disallowed. Drramp V. (.‘r(me, 6 C. E. I41‘. 544.
Prochrtin amt’. Voorhrrs V. Pollwnius, 9St:?u'. 456.

Receiver, motion for a.

Sutro v. ll~’<innm', 8 C. 1'.‘. Gr. 388. 9 .

E. Gr. 589. Settlement of accotints of. Richards v. .V0t‘1'I8
Canal (h.. 3 Iir. Ch. 428.
Redeem, bill to. Hill. v. Whitr, -S‘ru:. -I35. Burlrwv. Hi'll.man,
1 C. E. Gr. 23. 1’hiUip.-t V. ]~IuI..tizrr, 5 C. L‘. hr. 309. When de

nied.

Lozmr v. ShicttI.-, 8 C. E. H1‘. 509.

Mciick v. Creqmrr._10

C. E. I-'1'. 429. li’interx V. Earl, 7 Dirk. 52. See cmtr, Sec. I1,
note (b).
Tender alter. Hill v. 'li'hitr, Sum. 435. W'00t.lru1f v. Dcpue, 1
ﬂ[cC'm't. 169. Thorn V. .‘i[osher, 5 1'. E. I-Fr. 2.57. l§'tockt0n V.
Dunrlvgr 00., 7 I ', 1;’. Gr. 56. .S‘lu'rl<L¢ V. LOZIYGT, 7 1'. 1'}. Gr. 447.
Trustees, when to pay. li’orhu.u v. Armstrong. 2 19101.}?-' 263.
Frey v. Frry, 2 I.'. H. Hr. 72. Latin-op \'..S'nmltr:;i/, 8 C. 1:. hr.
1%. See Slrtck V. Bird, 8 C. 1:7. I-'1'. ‘Z38. Third National Bank
V. ('ur_i/, 12 Sh-"iv. 25.
Costs may be retaxed on motion. .-lm17‘(‘u's v. Ibrtl. 2 Hal.
I.;'h. 488. Execution for costs does not issue as of course: the
party must have an QX[)l‘PS.'<i order. Hut. Din. 2-ti. Q 13. An ap

peal will lie for a matter of costs.

1\'urr1-our v. Boultnn, l Ilur.

3l0. lkn. 1i'utIicrfIn'tt v. 1~i-"ii, 1 Zab. 701).-S‘tntr V. Brownirig,4
butch. 556. See Lozmr v. .S'hi::I1l.t. 8 C’. 1}. I tr. 509.
See l{lYl.l-IS (ii-‘ Cit.-\.\'ci-;n\', Secs. 101-113.
((1) ]i'irIcputri'<'/c V. (,'ornt'ng, l3 Stﬁtt’. 241.

CIIANCERY,

394
Executions may

110. That execution may issue, without a revival of the decree, at any

issue without rs
vival ofdecree.
P. L. 1855, p. ‘Z88.

time within twenty years from the date of such decree; provided, the
parties to the decree, or those of them during whose lives execution may
now issue without a revival. be then living; and provided further, that if
more than six years have elapsed since the entering of the decree, a special
order of the court shall be necessary before the execution issue to be made
upon ten days’ notice to the defendant of the application therefore, and
proof to the satisfaction of the court of the amount remaining due upon
the decree.
111. That in case of the sickness of the chancellor or his temporary
absence from the state, he may, by order ﬁled with the clerk, authorize
such master in chancery as may be therein named for that purpose, to
grant and dissolve injunctions, and perform such other duties of the chan
cellor as may be therein designated, not including the ﬁnal hearing and
determination of causes; and all orders and acts of such master within
the scope of such authority, shall have the same force and effect as if made
and done by the chancellor in person. (a)

Injunction
masters, during

absence of chan
oellor.
P. L. 1867, p. 166.

Chancellor may

112. That in all cases where property is or shall be held in trust in

appoint trustee
for receiving and

managing trust
property in cer
tain cases.

P. L. ms, p. 14. Q

another state, and any of the cestuis que trust for whose beneﬁt said prop
erty is or shall be so held in trust reside in this state and desire the trans
fer of such trust property to this state, the chancellor may, upon petition
presented to him for that purpose, and upon ten days’ notice of the time
of presenting said petition having been given to all persons having a
beneﬁcial interest in the estate so held in trust, appoint a trustee for the
purpose of receiving, holding and managing all such trust property as may
be transferred from such other state in accordance with the laws thereof;

Chancellor may
allow counsel fee
instead of retain
ing fee in taxed
bill of costs.
P. L. 1873, p. 116.

and such trustee when so appointed, ﬁrst having executed a bond to the
chancellor in such an amount, and with such surety or sureties as the said
chancellor shall approve of conditioned for the faithful execution of the
trust, shall have all the powers and privileges and be subject to all the
liabilities incident to the original trust. (b)
113. That hereafter in all suits and proceedings in the court of chancery,
instead of the retaining fee now allowed to counsel by statute, it shall be
lawful for the chancellor on ﬁnal decree to allow and order paid to the
counsel in the cause such sum as the chancellor may consider justly war
ranted by the interests involved in the litigation and the services rendered,
which allowance shall be included in the bill of taxed costs and collected

with the other items of said bill in the same manner that the retaining fee

has been heretofore; and the retaining fee now allowed to counsel by
statute shall not hereafter be allowed in the cases herein provided for.

[See Sec. 122.] (0)

'
XIII.

Appeal, in what

Appeal.

114. That all persons aggrieved by any order or decree of the court of

cases and when
brought.

P. L. 1573, p. 123.

chancery, may appeal from the same, or any part thereof, to the court
of errors and appeals; (d) and all appeals, except from ﬁnal decrees, shall

(ai See Rlrnra or Cuaxcaav, Sec. 121.

comb, 2 P. E.

(b) See RUL1-I501-‘ CHANCEEY,

upon an application based on the illegality of such sale‘
lmlirmnl Bank of UV ﬂlclropolis v. Sprarme, 8 C. E. Gr.456.
Smith v. Alton. 7 P. E. hr. 572. So, an order sustaining excep
tions to a hill for lmpertinence. Gnndm and Amhoy R. R. 00.

1&2.

(c) This section does not control the charges which attorneys.
solicitors and counsel may make against iheircllents, for it
merely enables the chancellor to allow for counsel such fee as
he may deem just, “ instead of the retaining fee now allowed

to counsel by statute." Slronp &'Son.s v. Mundy,7 Dlclr. 838.
ﬂee R1JLmo1r Cnnaczsav, 133137.
(d) An appeal lies from an order dissolving an injunction.
Olwqnry v. Scliojlcld, 1 .Hul. Oh. 525. Doughty v. Smm-ri.-iIlI' and

Eaaton R. R. (b., 3 Hal. Pb. 629.

Morgrm v. Roar, 7 C. E. hr.

547. So, an order refusing to set aside a sale‘

v. Strwnrl, 6 L‘. E. Gr. 484. So, where complainant is entitled to
an equitableanswer. lfdefendant be permitted to set up usury
without offering to pay the sum actually due. Vnndervurr v.
Jfolclnub, 7 L’ J-.‘. Gr. 555. So, a decree which settles perma
nently the right to the custody of infants. Slate, Baird v.
.'I'o1~|-rg/. 4 C. L‘. Ur. 481, 6 C. 1'}. Hr. 384. So, an order appointing

584. Black v. Del. mui Rurilan Canal f.‘o., 9 I‘. E. Gr. 477. But
not from the granting of a temporary injunction during the
pends-ncy of the cause. AIl'_1/-Hen. v. (lily of Palcrnon, 1 Stork.
-625. The chancellor or court oi‘ appeals may order the proceed

a receiver. WeL:mibm~n v. Siz'.nhor!1u'r, 6 0. E. Gr. 483. But not
an order authorlziiig a receiver, instead of collecting the rents,

inzs,uﬂer the appeal to be stayed.or the injunction continued.

of his equity oi‘ redemptiomami sets up usury, he has a

("henm~_1/ v. Srlinﬂrld and Dmighly v. Smner-villa and Ear!/m
R. R. (.10., mm-u. R_ue'rxm\ v. Bum-man, 8 Hal. Uh. (H0. Mm/or
oj Jrrsvy 0111/ v. Morris (furml (.'o., i Bras. 645. An order,

appeal fromadecree against him, because the decree would

to permit the defendant to do it.

Gm-r v. Hll(,1HIﬂ. Ch. 639.

Ifa mortgagor he made a party to a foreclosure after dL-a

ing
ght lo

bar him from setting up usury lo a suit on the bond. Andrew:
v. -§'lr;1l.¢, 7 ('. E. Gr. 478. An order directing process to bring
in the parties to answer for an alleged contempt, mnnot be

made at the ﬂnal hearing, for an issue-to be tried by a
jury, is appealnfile. I\'eu'm~It- and .Z\'rw York R. R. (b. v.

appealed from.

Tim Mu_z/rrr, J-r., nf .\'rn~m"Ir, 8 1'. E. Hr. 515. But see Black v.
Lamb, l Bear. lO8, ".3 Brim. 456. Trarlr.em4:n‘s Bank v. Ihlrrhilvi. 3
I‘1'.5-i'.’. Adecreebetweencoded-ndants,in which complain

which does not (llis‘17(lR(: ofihc whole merits of the case. Nrw
ark Plank Rom! 0:. v. Elmrr, 1 Stork. 755. Nor an order rethi
lng to order n special guardian to pay over the money derived

ant has no interest, may beappea-led from.

from a sale oi’ the minors lund, to a general guardian.

Vcnulervccr v. Hol

Cm-,1/(IL v. Holcomb. 1 -S‘lork. 6-'30. Nora decree

Mada

CHANCERY.

395 '

be made within forty days after ﬁling the order or decree appealed from;
and all appeals from ﬁnal decrees in the said court shall be made within
three years after making such decree; unless a notice of lis pendens has,
in the manner hereinbefore provided for, been ﬁled in the county clerk’s
office, in which eases all appeals from ﬁnal decrees shall be made within
three months after ﬁling the decree appealed from; prom-ided, that in cases
where the person entitled to such appeal from any ﬁnal decree be an infant,
feme covert. or insane, he shall have three years to bring such appeal, after
such disability shall be removed. (a)

XIV. Vice chancellor, his duties and powers.
115. That there shall be a vice chancellor, who. shall bea counselor-at
law of at least ten years’ standing, who shall be appointed by the chan
cellor, and commissioned by the governor, under the great seal of the
state, and who shall continue in office for seven years from the date of the
commission.
11,6. That the chancellor may refer to such vice chancellor. any cause
or other matter which at any time may be pending in the court of chau
cery, to hear‘ the same for the chancellor, and to report thereon to him
and advise what order or decree should be made therein; and any matter
or cause in which the chancellor is interested may be so referred. (b)
117. That when any cause or matter shall be so referred to such vice
chancellor, it shall be lawful for him to take and hear the evidence of any
or all witnesses in said cause or matter orally, in the same manner as the
evidence is now taken and heard in the several courts of law in this state
on trials before a jury; and if a report of the evidence so taken before
him shall become necessary in the progress of said cause, for use on appeal
from the decree of the chancellor thereon or otherwise, then such vice
chancellor shall settle and sign such report. (c)

118. That it shall be lawful for such vice chancellor when any cause or
matter is so referred, to employ a competent stenographic reporter to take
down the evidence of such witnesses as may he examined before him, for
the use of the court and the parties in the cause or matter; and to ﬁx,
allow, and tax the fees and compensation of such reporter for taking down
and writing out such evidence. and to apportion the same between the
parties in the same manner as the fees of examiners are apportioned ; and
each party shall forthwith pay the part so apportioned to him, which shall
be part oi‘ the taxable costs in the cause.
119. That it shall be lawful i'or the chancellor, from time to time, to
divide the state into convenient districts, and appoint times and places for
the sitting of said vice chancellor for the hearing of causes and matters
referred to him, and to make all such general rules for the effectual execu
tion and carrying out of this act as he shall tlcem necessary and proper.

120. That said vice chancellor shall not engage in the practice of law
as counsel or otherwise, in any of the courts of this state, and shall receive
as a compensation for the performance of the duties imposed upon him by
this act an annual salary of ﬁve thousand dollars, to be paid quarterly,

Vice chancellor,
how appointed.

Term of oﬂlce.

1*. L. ran, p. 127.
Powers and
duties.

Powers and
duties.

May employ
reporter.

Fix compensation
and apportion

same.

Chancellor may

divide the state
into districts.

Shall not practice
law.

Salary.

ql Anderson, 2 C. E. 01:536. Where a final decree involves the
merits of the case, which had reviousiy been settled by an
interlocutory order, an appeal rom the final decree brings the

gather with the evidence upon which they are founded. Decker
v. Rurlcnian. 1 Slew. 614. Orders and decrees relative to plead
imzs and adjudications merely incidental to the suit and not

whole case before the court.

aifectlng the merits, are conclusive, except when up eaied
from within forty days. Ib. It is the notice oi appeal led in
liste act glv ng the court
the court of chancery that is the ap
ot’ ap eais cmtnizance oi‘ the case.
drum v. Long, 18 Stew. 160.

ﬁrrltune v. (buon, 1 Br-us. 812.

G-one v. Demmp, 7 (2 E. G1-.6l-i.

But an order reihsing to

allow an answer to he amended, could not be included in an

appeal from such interlocutory decree.

Bullrrjldd v. Third

After ihe death of a party

If a < ecree of the court oferrurs he niisenlered in the minutes,

his representatives may revive the suit for the purpose of

it must be executed by the court of chaneerrtaccording to its
terms, the proper practice being to apply to the’:-.ourt oi‘ errors

Am Savings Bank, 10 C. L‘. Gr. 583.

appealing. Prrr v. Oookz-row, 2 Bans. 136. Where ajoint decree
has been rendered against a married woman and other parties.
she can appeal and carry up ihe whole ease for review, aher
her disability is removed, although the riizhl. of appeal may
have been lost by the others. P01‘ v. Gmkerow, 1 lilcflrrt. 361.
An appeal may be sustained in pnrt and dismissed asto the

reridu:-.

liwr/mt v. Bmziford, 4 Wash. C‘. C. 498.
Woodward v. Bullock, 12 If. E. Gr. 507.

An order denying an application for n rehearing is not an

An

appeal from a ﬁnal decree brings up all interlocutory orders and

decrees involving the merits, as well as the master's report, to

Rem! v. Palm-.von, 17 Strw. ‘Ail.

An order

denying an application to open a decree, and for leave to answer

and present the merits of the defense, is an appeaiable order.
Ib.

An order ri>i’nsing to set aside B sale on foreclosure of n mort

gage is appeaiable.

to rectify the entry of the decree. Tutti: v. Gilmore, 15 Slrw. 309.
nppt-alnhic order.

Drly v. Allairr, 4 Slew. 303.

((1.) See RULES or Cn.\xcr-mv, Secs. 149-152. As to rehearin
see Rules H3-148.
(bl See Rrm-3 or CF{A.\‘CI-‘.RY, Secs. 160,193-196.
(c) See Rum-;s or Crr.\.\'cr:ar, Secs. 197-199.

396

CHANCERY.
and
such
paid
170,

also ten dollars for every day actually engaged in the performance of
duties, to be ascertained and certiﬁed by the chancellor, and to be
by the treasurer of the state with said salary quarterly. [See Sec.
post.]
XV. Supplements.
Supplement.

P. L. 1875, p. 1(Xl.
Persons making
search shall oer
tlfy on same
amount of ex
penses pald or
incurred.

Chancellor may
allow percentage

on amount of de
cree as counsel
fee.
1

Approved April 9, 1875.

121. sEC. 1. That section seventy-nine of.the act entitled “An act
rcspecting the court of cbancery.” approved March twenty-seventh, one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-four, be amended by inserting after
the words “ provided however ” and before the word “ that," the following
words: “that the person making such search shall certify on the same the
amount of such expenses paid or incurred; and provided also.”

122. S1-:0. 2. That section one hundred and thirteen of the act entitled
“An act respecting the court of chancery,” approved March twenty
seventh, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four, be amended by

inserting after the word “ sum“ and before the word “ as,” the following
words: “not less than one or more than ﬁve per centum of the amount
of such decree.” (a)
Supplement.

P. L. 1876, p. 58.
Lls pendens when
ﬁled ln registers

oﬂioe.

Approved March 16, 1876.

123. Sac. 1. That sections ﬁfty-seven, ﬁfty-eight, ﬁfty-nine, sixty, sixty
one and sixty-two of the act to which this is a supplement, and which now
read as follows [see Rev. pp. 114, 115], be and the same are hereby
amended so that, in any county in which the ofﬁce of register of deeds
and mortgages now exists, or shall hereafter exist, the provisions of said
sections relating to the clerk of the court of common pleas and county
clerk, shall hereafter apply to such register and not to such clerk, and the
provisions relating to the oﬂice of such clerk shall hereafterapply to the
oﬂice of such register and not to the oﬂice of such clerk.

Supplement.
P. L. 1878, p. 84.

Approved April 6, 1876.

124. SEC. 1. That the seventieth section of the act to which this act is a

Issuing execution,
ln case of death,
disability, &c., of

snerlﬂ‘or master.

supplement, which is in the words following, to wit [see Rev. p. 116], be
and the same is hereby amended so that the same shall read and be in the
words following, to wit :
[That when any sheriff or other person to whom any writ of execution
issuing out of the court of chancery hath heretofore been directed and
delivered or shall hereafter be directed and delivered, hath died or shall die,
or hath or shall become disabled by law to discharge the duties of his oﬁice
or appointment, or hath removed or shall remove out of the state and con
tinue to reside thereout, without discharging the duties of his office or ap
pointment in relation to the command of said writ, then, or in either of said

cases, it shall and may be lawful for the court, upon presenting a petition
setting forth the facts above mentioned, and veriﬁed to the satisfaction of
the court, and upon due notice being given to any party who has entered
an appearance in the suit or in whose behalf the decree was made, to award
and order another execution, to be directed to the sheriff of the proper
county, or to one of the masters of said court, commanding him to proceed
to discharge the exigencies of said writ in the same manner as such oﬂicer
so dying, becoming disabled, or removing, as aforesaid, was commanded in
and by said writ to do, and any proceeding had by such officer to whom
such writ shall be directed and delivered, shall be as good, valid and

effectual as if the said execution ﬁrst issued had been orginally directed
to him; and such sheriff or master shall be entitled to the same fees for
(a) See 0‘RourIre v. Olawland, 4 Dick. 577.

CHANCERY.

397

services done, and subject to the same suits, penalties, amercements and
proceedings for neglect of duty as if the said execution had been originally
directed and delivered to such sheriff or master.]

Supplement.
Approved April 13, 1876.

_ 125. SEC. l. That the surplus money arising from the sale of mortgaged
premises, in cases where the mortgagor, or person owning the mortgaged
premises, shall be deceased at the time of sale, may, if in the opinion of
the chancellor the same shall be expedient or necessary for the proper ad
ministration of the estate, be paid to the administrator or administrators,

P. L. 1876, p. H0.
Surplus money
arising from sale

of mortgaged
premises, when
paid to executor,
&.c.

executor or executors, of said deceased, to be administered in the same

manner as money arising from the sale of real estate made by administra
tors or executors; provided, said administrator or administrators, executor

or executors, shall enter into bond as now required by law, upon their
application for the sale of real estate.

Supplement.
Approved March 1,1877.

P. L. 1:511. p. av.

126. SEC. l. Amended by Secs. I49 and l50,1>0.'-L]
127. SEO. 2. Amended by Sec. 151, post]

Supplement.
Approved April 4, 1878.

128. SEC. 1. 'l‘hat the chancellor may refer to any master in chaneery,
who shall be a counselor-at-law of at least ﬁve years’ standing, any cause or
other matter which, at any time, may be pending in the court of chaneery,
to hear the same for the chancellor, and to report thereon to him, and
advise what order or decree should be made therein.
129. Sac. 2. That when any cause or matter shall be so referred to a
master, it shall be lawful for him to take and hear the evidence of any or
all witnesses in said cause or matter orally in the same manner as the evi
dence is now taken and heard in courts of law in this state on trials before
a jury; and if a report of the evidence, so taken before him, shall become
necessary in the progress of said cause or matter, for use on appeal from

P. L. 1878. p. N0.
Chancellor may
refer the hearing
oi‘ any cause to a
master.

Master may fake

and hear evidence
of witnesses orally
and settle and sign

report thereof for
appeal.

the decree of the chancellor therein or otherwise, then such master shall

settle and sign such report. (a)

130. SEC. 3. That it shall be lawful forsnch, master, when any cause or
matter is so referred to him, to employ a competent stenographic reporter
to take down the evidence of such witnesses as may be examined before
him, for the use of the court and parties in such cause or matter, and to
fix, allow and tax the fees and compensation of such reporter for taking
down and writing out such evidence, and to apportion the same between
the parties in the same manner as the fees of examiners are apportioned,
and each party shall forthwith pay the part so apportioned to him, which
shall he part of the taxable costs in the cause.

131. S1-:0. 4. That it shall be lawful for the chancellor, by rule of court,
to ﬁx and determine to what masters the references provided for by this
act shall be made, and to remove and change the same at his pleasure, and
to ﬁx the compensation to be paid to such masters for their services, which
compensation shall be proportionate, as near as may be, to the actual value
of such services, and shall be paid them from the state treasury on the
certiﬁcate of the chancellor, and the chancellor may make all such general
rules for the effectual execution of this act as he shall deem necessary and
proper.
(a) See Remus or CHANCERY, Secs. 201-204.

May employ
ltenographic
reporter.

Chancellor may
provide by rule
in what masters
references shall
be made.

CHANCERY.

398
Chancellor may
make general
rules to regulate
the taking of
evidence.

132. SEC. 5. That the chancellor may make such general rules as he
shall deem necessary and proper to provide for, expedite and regulate the
taking and production of e\'idence in the court of chancery in any cause or
matter pending therein.
Supplement.
I

P. L. 1879. P. 177.
Reduction of fees
in certain fore
closure cases.

Approved March 13, 1879.

133. SEC. 1. That in all foreclosures of mortgages and the sale of mort
gaged premises, where the amount due does not exceed three hundred
dollars, the fees of the solicitor, clerk, chancellor, master and examiner,
sheriff, or any other olllcial, are hereby reduced one—half of the amount

now ﬁxed by law. (a)
Repealer.

134. S1-:0. 2. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent herewith be and
the same are hereby repealed.
Supplement.

P. L. me, p. m1.

Approved March 1-l, 1879.

135. SI-:0. 1. [This section, amending Sec. 17, ante, is amended by Secs
1.55 and 167, post]
Supplement.

P. L. 1880, p. 24.

Flubrxenas, &ic.,

how served and
by whom.

Approved February 10, 18!).

136. SEO. 1. That section thirteen of said act, and which reads as
follows [see Rev. p. 105], be amended so as to read as follows:
[That every suhpmua or process for appearance shall be served by the
same officers now authorized to serve writs oi‘ summons and other common
law processes, on the person to whom it is directed, or a copy thereof left
at his dwelling-house, or usual place of abode, by one of said oﬁicers, at

least ten days prior to its retui-n.]

Supplement.
P. L. 1880, 11. 95.

If complainant

do not attend at
the hearing, de
cree may be made
in favor of de
fendant or bill
dismissed with
costs.

Approved March 3, 1880.

137. SEO. 1. That the fort_v-eighth section of the act to which this isa
supplement, which section reads as follows [see Rev. p. 112], be amended
to read as follows :
[That if the complainant shall not attend at the time appointed for the
hearing of the cause, the bill, answer, replication, documents, examina
tions and proofs shall be read on the part of the defendant or defendants,
and the court thereupon may decree in favor of the defendant or defend
ants, or complainant or complainants, as the case may require, or may
dismiss complainant’s said bill with costs.]

Supplement.

P. L.1891,p.119.
Chancel ior nu
thorized tn ap

point an addi
tional vice
chancellor.

Powers, duties
and compensation
of vice chancellor.

Approved March 15, 1381.

138. SEO. 1. That in addition to the vice chancellor provided for in the
act to which this is a supplement, there shall hereafter be another vice
chancellor, who shall be a counselor-at-law of at least ten years’ standing,
and who shall be appointed by the chancellor and commissioned by the
governor under the great seal of the state, and who shall continue in oﬁlce
for seven years from the date of the commission.

139. SEC. 2. That the powers, duties and compensation of the vice
chancellor, appointed by virtue of this act, shall be similar to those of the
vice chancellor appointed by virtue of the act to which this is a supplement.

(a) In taxing the slieriifs fees, the taxed costs of the cause,
excluding the sheriffs execution fees, must be included in com

puting the amount on which the sheriffs fees are calculated.
(‘rune v. 1-Uta, 9 Slew. 159.

399

CI-IANCERY.
Supplement
Approved March 24, 1881.

P. L. 1881, p. %.

140. SEC. 1. [Amended by Sec. 165,post.]

141. SEO. 2. That all such defendants and all persons falling within the

Defendants, heirs,
devisees, &c.,

description of“ heirs, devisees or personal representatives ” of the defend

ant supposed to be dead, as aforesaid, shall thereupon be bound by all
orders and decrees in said cause, as if they had been duly named and

bound by all
orders, decrees
in cause.

described and served with process within this state.

142. SEC. 3. That proofs may be made, costs allowed, security ordered,
and proceedings for restitution or other relief from said decrees and orders
had, in like manner as the same are now allowed by law in the case of
absent defendants.

Yrooeedings for

relief from said
decrees.
'

Supplement.
Approved March 8, 1882.

143. SEO. 1. [This section is repealed by Sec. 158, posh]
144. Sac. 2. That the vice chancellors shall have power to appoint suit
able persons, to hold ofﬁce during his pleasure, as sergeants-at-arms, whose
duty it shall be to attend the court or hearings held by the vice chancellors
at the city of Camden and city of Jersey City, when required, whose com

P. n 1882, p. 65.
Sergeants-at-arms,
by whom ap

pointed and their
compensation.

pensation shall be three dollars per day each for each day they shall be in

actual attendance upon said courts, to be paid by the treasurer of the state
upon the certiﬁcate of the vice chancellors. [See Sec. 15l,p0st.]
Supplement.
'

Approved March 10, 1882.

145. SEC. 1. That when any decree made in the court of chancery ip any
suit of the pendency of which notice shall have been or shall be ﬁled in

the office of the clerk of the court of common pleas or of the register of
deeds of any county, shall have been or shall be paid, satisﬁed or performed,
or when pending such suit the matters in difference between the parties
thereto shall have been or shall be settled by the said parties, the lands
and real estate affected by said suit and mentioned in such notice shall be

P. L. 1882, p. 89.
The lien ofn iis
pendena to be dis
charged when do
cree is paid or

suit settled.

discharged of all equities set up in the bill of complaint in said suit, by the

entry on the margin of the record of the notice of the pendency of such
suit of satisfaction and discharge, which satisfaction and discharge shall
be entered by the party receiving satisfaction or his solicitor, or by the
clerk or register of deeds of the proper county upon receiving and ﬁling a

Satisfaction and
discharge to be
entered.

warrant or authority for the purpose. executed by the said party or his
solicitor in the manner provided by law in respect to the satisfaction of
judgments, and the same fees shall be paid for services rendered under this

act as are allowed in the supreme court upou satisfaction of a judgment
therein.
Supplement
Approved March 22, 1532.

146. SEO. 1. That from and after the passage of this act, the stenogra
phcr employed to report the proceedings in the vice chaneellors’ courts
shall be paid for his services the same, and no more, as the respective
steuographers employed in the circuit courts of this state, and that the
sum due to such stenographer shall be paid quarterly, on the certiﬁcate of
the vice chancellor, by the state treasurer, out of the fees received by him
from the court of chancery.

P. L. 1862, p. 160.
Services of sten
ogrnpher to be
paid by state

treasurer.

Supplement.
Approved February 17, 1885.

147. SEO. 1. That it shall be lawful in any action now pending or here
after to be brought in the court of chancery for the partition and sale of
lands, for the clerk of said court to tax as a part of the taxable costs in

favor of the complainant in said action any and all such legal fees and

P. L. 1885, p. 81.
Fees for searches
may be included
in actions for par
tition and sale of
land.

CHANCERY.

400

charges as may have been necessarily paid or incurred for or in behalf of
said party in procuring searches against or in relation to the title of the
lands sought to be partitioned or sold in said action, which fees or charges
shall be ascertained in such way as the chancellor may direct.
Counsel fee to
complainant
may be included.

148. SEO. 2. That in any such suit it shall be lawful for the chancellor,
in his discretion, to allow a counsel fee to the complainant, to be taxed in
the bill of costs, whether an appearance shall have been entered or an
answer or answers shall have been ﬁled by any of the defendants or not.

A supplement to the act entitled “A supplement to the act entitled
‘An act respecting the court of chancery"‘ [Revision], approved
March twenty-seventh, one thousand eight hundred and seventy
ﬂve, which supplement was approved March ﬁrst, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-seven.
Approved April 20, I885.

P. L. 1885, p. 263.

149. Sec. 1. [This section, amending Sec. 126, ante, is amended by Sec.
150, p0sl.]
A further supplement to an act entitled “A supplement to the act
entitled ‘ An act respecting the court of chancery’ " [Revision], ap
proved March twenty-seventh, one thousand eight hundred and
seventy-ﬁve, which supplement was approved March ﬁrst, one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven.
Approved February 2, 1886.

P. L. 1886, p. 13.

150. SEO. l. [This section, amending Secs. 126 and 149, ante, is repealed
by Sec. 159, post]

151. Si-:0. 2. That the second section [see Sec. 127, ante] of the said act
Appolntment and

compensation of
sergean t-at-arms.

shall be amended so as to read as follows:
[That the chancellor and vice chancellors shall have power to appoint
suitable persons, to hold oﬂice during their pleasure, as sergeant-at-arms of
their respective court-rooms, whose duty it shall be to attend the courts or
hearings when required, for which service they shall each receive three
dollars per day for each day they shall respectively be in actual attendance
upon the court, to be paid by the treasurer of the state upon the certiﬁcate
of the chancellor or vice chancellor.]
Supplement.
Approved April 5, I886.

P. L. 1586, p. 176.
Chancellor may
order sale pend

lng foreclosure
suit where mort
gaged properly ls
lluble to deterio
rate In value.

152. SEC. 1. That the court of chancery shall have power in any suit for
the foreclosure or satisfaction of any mortgage covering real or personal
property, or both, upon the petition of any party to such suit, where the
property mortgaged is of such character or so situated as to make it liable
to deteriorate in value pending said suit, or to make its care or preserva
tion (liﬁicult or expensive, to order a sale to be made thereof at public or
private sale, through a receiver, sheriff, master, or otherwise, as the said

Proceeds of sale
psld lnlo court.

court may direct, and the proceeds of any such sale to be brought into
court, there to remain subject to the same liens and equities of" all parties
in interest as was the mortgaged property, and to be disposed of as the said
court by its decree or order shall direct.
' Supplement.

P. L. 1687, p. 73.
Payment ofsren
ographer ln causes

before advisory
masters.

Approved March 80, 1887.

153. SEC. 1. That from and after the passage of this act, the stcnographcr
employed to report the proceedings in causes before any advisory master
shall be paid for his services the same and no more, as the respective
stenographers employed in the circuit courts of this state, and that the
sum due to such stenographer shall be paid on the certiﬁcate of the advi
sory master approved by the chancellor, by the state treasurer, out of the
fees received by him from the court of chancery.

401

CHANCERY.

Supplement.
Approved Aprll 21, 1887.

154. SEO. 1. That if upon the foreclosure of any mortgage heretofore or
hereafter given and the sale of the premises therein described, there shall
be paid into court any monies representing an estate in dower or by the
curtesy in said premises or any part thereof, any person entitled to such

dower or estate may make application to the court for the sum in gross in
lieu of the estate aforesaid, and the court shall direct the payment of such
sum in gross out of the proceeds of the sale of the premises to the person
entitled to such estate, as shall be deemed a just and reasonable satisfaction
for such estate or interest, and which the person so entitled shall consent
in writing to accept in lieu thereof; but in case no such consent be given
before the distribution of the proceeds thereof, then the court shall ascer
tain and determine what proportion of such proceeds will be a just and
reasonable sum to be invested for the beneﬁt of the person entitled to such
estate in dower or by the curtesy, and shall order the same to be put at
interest on suﬂicient security of real property or invested in public stock
or deposited in some safe and reliable savings institution by order and
under the direction and control of said court for the beneﬁt of the parties
entitled, and the interest thereon to be paid to them as the same may

P. L. 1887, p. 179.
Gross sum lu lleu
of dower or
curtesy may by
consent be or
dered pald out
of surplus on
foreclosure.

In case no con
sent, court may
determine same
and order ln
vested.

become due as a compensation fo1' and in lieu of the said estate in dower
or by the curtesy, and at the decease of the person entitled to the same the

principal sum shall be paid to or distributed among the parties entitled
thereto.
Supplement.
Approved Aprll 2|, 1837.

P. L. 1887, p. 199.

155. SEC. 1. [This section, amending Secs. 17 and 135. ante, is amended
by Sec. 167, pos-1.]

156. SEC. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro

Repealer.

visions of this act be and the same are hereby repealed.
Supplement.
Approved February 29, 1888.

157. SEC. 1. That the clerk in chancery, with the approval of the chan

P. L. 1888, p. 111.
Clerk ln chancery
to provide rooms

cellor, shall provide at the expense of the state duly-furnished rooms in

the cities of Camden, Jersey City and Newark for the use of the chancellor,
vice chancellors and advisory masters in the hearing of causes and motions,
and that the rent and expenses thereof shall be ascertained and certiﬁed by
the chancellor and paid by the treasurer of the state, and shall not exceed

in all four thousand ﬁve hundred dollars per annum.
158. SEC. 2. That section one of an act entitled “ A further supplement
to an act entitled ‘An act respecting the court of chancery,"’ approved
March twenty-seventh,

one

thousand eight hundred and

for chancellor,
vlce chancellor
and udvlsory
masters.

Rent and ex
penses, how

paid, &c.
Secllon repealed.

seventy-four,

which supplement was approved March eighth, one thousand eight hun
dred and

repealed.

eighty-two

[see

Sec.

143,

ante], be and the same is hereby

159. SEO. 3. That section one of an act entitled “A further supplement
to an act entitled ‘A supplement to the act entitled “An act respecting the
court of chancery” [Revision], approved March twenty-seventh, one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-ﬁve,’ which supplement was ap
proved March ﬁrst, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven,
which further supplement was approved February second, eighteen hun
dred and eighty-six” [see Sec. 150, anle], be and the same is hereby

Section repealed.

repealed.
Supplement.
Approved Aprll 3, 1888.

160. SEO. l. That all persons aggrieved by any ﬁnal decree of the court
of chancery made upon bill ﬁled to quiet the title to lands, mav appeal

from the same or any part thereof to the court of errors and appeals, and
26

P. L. 1888, p. 881.
Appeal from de
cree on blll to
quiet mle to be
made ln three
months.

402

Proviso.

CHANCERY.
all appeals from such ﬁnal decrees shall be made within three months
after making such decree; provided, that in cases where the person entitled
to such appeal from any ﬁnal decree be an infant, feme covert or insane,
he or she shall have three months to bring such appeal after such disability
shall be removed.
Supplement.
Approved April 16, 1888.

P. L. 1888, p. 427.

161. SEC. 1. That section fifty-seven of an act entitled “An act respect

Lis peudens.

Notice of suit to
be ﬂied in county
clerk's oﬂloe.

Proviso.

Proviso.

ing the court of chancery” [Revision], approved March twenty-seventh,
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-ﬁve, be and the same is hereby
amended so as to read as follows :
[That neither the ﬁling of a bill in chancery nor any proceedings had,
or to be had thereon, before a ﬁnal decree, shall be deemed or taken to be
constructive notice to any bona ﬁde purchaser or mortgagee of any lands or
real estate to be aﬂected thereby, until the complainant in such bill, or his
solicitor, shall have ﬁrst ﬁled-in the office of the clerk of the court of

common pleas of the county in which such lands or real estate lie, a
written notice of the pendency of such suit, setting forth the title of the
cause and the general object thereof, together with a description of the
lands or real estate to be affected thereby; provided. that nothing in this
section contained shall be construed or taken to apply to any bill ﬁled, or
to be ﬁled, for the satisfaction or foreclosure of any duly-registered or
recorded mortgage; and provided further, that in case the complainant
named in such bill do not take steps to prosecute the suit diligently within
three years aﬂzer the ﬁling of such written notice of the pendency of such
suit, then the chancellor may. upon application to him by any interested
party, and upon notice to the complainant or his solicitor, declare the ﬁling
of such notice to be null and void and of no effect]

Supplement.
P. L. 1889, D. 88.
Two additional
vice chauceilors
may be appointed.

Term of ofﬂce.
Powers, duties
and compen
satlon.

Approved March %, 1889.

162. SEC. 1. That in addition to the vice chancellors provided for in the
act to which this is a supplement, there shall hereafter he another vice
chancellor or other vice chancellors, not exceeding two, as and when the
chancellor shall determine, each of whom shall be a counselor-at-law of at
least ten years’ standing, and each of whom shall be appointed by the
chancellor and commissioned by the governor, under the great seal of the
state, and each of whom shall continue in oﬂice for seven years from the
(late of his commission.

163. SEO. 2. That the powers, duties and compensation of the vice
chancellors, and each of them, who shall be appointed by virtue of this
act, shall be similar to those of the vice chancellors heretofore appointed

by virtue of the act to which this is a supplement.

Supplement.
P. L. 1590, p. 188.

Act requiring

report ofsuie and
proof of sale at
highest and best
price to apply to
all sales of land
under any decree
or order.

Approved March 31, 1890.

164. SEC. 1. That the provisions of the fourth section of the act entitled
“ An act concerning proceedings on bonds and mortgages given for the
same indebtedness and the foreclosure and sale of mortgaged premises
thereunder,” approved March twelfth, one thousand eight hundred and
eighty, which section is in these words:
“That in all foreclosure proceedings hereafter commenced, the sheriff
or other officer who may be directed to sell any mortgaged premises shall,
after making such sale, report the same within ﬁve days thereafter to the

court out of which an execution or order to sell is issued, stating the name
oi’ the purchaser or purchasers and the price obtained, and if the said

court, or a judge thereof‘, shall approve of‘ such sale, they shall conﬁrm the
same as valid, effectual in law, and shall, by rule of court allowed in open
court, or by a judge thereof at chambers, direct the said sheriff or other

CHANCERY.

403

ofﬁcer to execute good and suiﬂcient conveyance in law to the purchaser
or purchasers for the mortgaged premises so sold; provided, that no sale
of mortgaged premises shall be conﬁrmed by the court or further proceed
ings had until the court or such judge is satisﬁed, by evidence, that the
property has been sold at the highest and best price the same would then .
bring in cash, and such evidence may be in form of affidavits," shall
apply to and govern all sales of land or any interest therein made under
and by virtue of any decree or order of the court of chancery. subject,
however, to such rules and orders in respect thereto as the said court may
at any time make. (a)
Amendatory act.
Approved March 9, 1891.

165. SEC. 1. That section one [Sec. 140, ante] of an act entitled “A
supplement to an act entitled ‘An act respecting the court of chancery,’
approved March twenty-seventh, in the year one thousand eight hundred
and seventy-ﬁve,” which supplement was approved March twenty-fourth,
in the year one thousand eight hundred and eighty-one, be amended so as
to read as follows:
[That in all actions heretofore or hereafter commenced in the court of
chancery of New Jersey, by bill of complaint affecting or concerning the
title. to any lands lying in the state of New Jersey, or to foreclose a mort
gage, or to establish and enforce any other lien or charge against lands in
this state, mentioned and described in said bill, whenever it shall appear
by the allegations of said bill of complaint, duly veriﬁed by the affidavit of
the complainant or his agent or solicitor thereto annexed, that any person
mentioned in said bill of complaint as having or having had, claiming or
having claimed, or believed by the complainant to claim or to have
claimed, any right, title, interest or estate in or to said lands, or any part
thereof, or any mortgage or other lien or charge thereon, or his heirs, de
visees or personal representatives, are proper parties defendant to said bill
of complaint; and that the complainant, after diligent and careful inquiry

P. L. X891, p. 98.

Actions heretofore
or hereafter com
menced affecting
or concerning title
to lands, or to fore
close a mortgage,
or enforce a lien,
may be proceeded
against persons
claiming any
right, title, &c.,
or his heirs,
devisees, die.

therefore, made as in case of absent defendants, has been unable to ascer

tain whether such person is still alive, or if he is known or believed to be
dead, has been unable to ascertain the names and residence of his heirs,
devisees or personal representatives, or of such of them as are proper
parties defendant as aforesaid, such action may proceed against such per
son by name, and his heirs, devisees and personal representatives as in case
of absent defendants whose names are known; provided, nevertheless, that
such notice as is now required by law to be published against absent
defendants in default of personal service, addressed to such person by
name and to “ his heirs, devisees and personal representatives,” and con
taining such further statements and giving such further time as the chan
cellor may by his order direct, be ﬁrst published and mailed in such
manner as the chancellor may by his order in said action direct; and in
case such person or his heirs, devisees or personal representatives shall not
appear, plead, answer or demur within the time limited in said notice, or
further allowed by the chancellor, if he shall think proper, on proof to the
satisfaction of the chancellor of mailing and publication of said notice, as
directed, such action may proceed in all respects as though such person or
his heirs, devisees or personal representatives had been duly named and
described and served with process of subpoena in said action and had
failed to appear, plead, answer or demur to the complainant’s bill of com
plaint within the time thereto allowed by law.]

Proviso.

Supplement.
Approved March E, 1892.

166. SI-:0. 1. That each of the several vice chaneellors of this state, when
sitting as judges of the court of chancery for the transaction of the business‘
of said court, shall have power to adjudicate upon and punish any and all
(_ 1|) See Bttfilehem Iron 00. V. Phila. and Sea Shore Ry. Ga, 4 Dick. 356.

P. L. 1892, p. 291.
Vice chancellor:
have power to
punish for con
tempt.

404

CHANCERY.
contempts committed by any person or persons in the presence of the
court so held by such vice chancellor, in same manner as the chancellor
may now do, and the several sheriﬁ's and keepers of the commonjails of
the several counties of this state shall respect and execute all orders and
commitments made and signed by either of the said several vice chanccllors
in any matters of contempt in all respects the same as if made and signed

Proviso.

by the chancellor, provided that any person adjudicated guilty of contempt
under this act shall have right of immediate appeal to the chancellor,
which appeal shall operate asa stay of proceedings and the chancellor
shall provide by rule for the manner and method of such appeals, and
shall hear them on the merits.

Supplement.
P. L. rm, p. m.

Approved March 30, 1892.

167. SEC. l. That the seventeenth section [see Secs. 17, 135 and 155,
“When security for
costs required or

solicitor held re
sponsible, or suit
stayed.

Proviso.

ante] ofthe act to which this is a supplement be amended to read as
follows :
[That if the complainant reside out ofthis state, he shall, before the
issuing ofa process to appear, cause a bond to be executed by at least one
suﬂicient person, being a freeholder and resident within this state, to the
defendant in the penal sum of one hundred and ﬁﬂzy dollars, conditioned
to prosecute the suit with effect and to pay costs to the defendant, if he
shall be entitled thereto, and have the same ﬁled with the clerk, or, in
default thereof, the complainant’s solicitor, who shall ﬁle the said bill and
issue process thereon, shall be responsible to pay the defendant such costs
as he may be entitled to by the order of the court, to ari amount not ex
ceeding the penalty of said bond, and whether the said bill and process be
signed by the complainant or his solicitor, then the said suit may be stayed
until such bond be ﬁled, and if it be not ﬁled by the time appointed by
the court, the bill shall be dismissed with costs; provided, that in lieu of
such bond the complainant may deposit with the clerk the sum of one
hundred and ﬁfty dollars in money.] (a)
Supplement.

P. L. 1%, p. 412.
Payment to Judg

ment creditors
may be made

from surplus
money from sales
in chnncery.

‘

Approved April 8, 1892.

168. SEO. 1. That whenever any lands shall have heretofore been or
shall hereafter be sold by virtue of any order or decree of the court of
chancery, and there shall be a surplus arising from such sale which shall
be deposited in said court, and any person or persons or corporation shall,
theretofore or thereafter, obtain judgment in any of the courts of this state

against the owner or owners of said lands so ordered to be sold, or any
other person or persons who shall be entitled to such surplus money,
any part thereof, it shall and may be lawful for, and the chancellor
hereby authorized, empowered and directed, upon petition ﬁled by or
behalf of such judgment creditor or creditors, and upon due proof made

or
is
in
to

the satisfaction of the chancellor that the residence of the person entitled
to such surplus monies is unknown, and cannot be ascertained, to order

and direct such surplus monies so deposited, or so much thereof as may
be necessary, be paid to such judgment creditor or creditors, in satisfaction
of their said judgment, notwithstanding such creditor or creditors were not
made parties defendant in said cause; that in such cases -it shall not be
necessary for the judgment creditor or creditors to apply to be admitted as

parties defendant in said cause, but said petition shall be entitled in the
cause out of which such surplus was realized ; and that such proof as is by
this act required, may be by aﬁidavit, or otherwise, as the chancellor shall
direct.
(a) This right does not rest alone on the statute; it will be

who is a non-resident, will not be required to give security for

granted if the complainant oen abroad to reside after thecorn
mencement oi‘ the suit, alt ough resident here when his bill

costs. if he is joined Will) a resident complainant. Jomr v.
Knau.vs, B Stew. 188. If a deiendnnt alter he has notice that ihe
complainant is non-resident, lakes any step in the cause, he

was ﬁled; any steps taken in the cause by defendant after
notice oi non-residence or removal is a waiver of the right to
security.

.Neu~1mm v. Lamb-inc, 1 liIcCu1'l. ‘Z91

A complainant

waives his right of security for costs. SIm!1lcu:o1-th v. Dunlap
7 Stew. 488.

405

CHANCERY.
169. Si-:0. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro

Repealer.

visions of this act, be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act
shall take effect immediately.
Supplement.
P. L. 1893, p. 14.

Approved January 31, 1893.

170. SEO. i. That the vice chancellors of this state shall each be entitled

Annual salary of

vice chanceliors.

to receive an annual salary at the rate of nine thousand dollars and no more;
said salaries shall be paid in equal monthly payments by the treasurer of
this state on the warrant of the comptroller of the treasury, and shall be in
full of all services to be rendered by said officers respectively, and neither
of said officers shall be entitled to any per diern or other allowance over and
above said salaries.

171. SEO. 2. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the pro

Repealer.

visions of this act are hereby repealed, and that this act shall take effect
immediately.
Amendatory act.
P. L. 1893, p. 199.

Approved March 10, 1893.

172. SEO. 1. That section eighteen of the act to which this is amendatory
be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows:
[That in case of a bill ﬁled against any defendant against whom a sub Sotice to absent
to
prena or other process to appear shall issue. and such defendant shall not defendants
plead, answer or
cause his appearance to be entered in such suit, as according to the practice demur to bill ﬂied.
of said court the same ought to he entered, in case such process has been
dilly served, and .it shall be made to appear, by affidavit or otherwise, to
the satisfaction of the chancellor, that such defendant is out of the state, or
cannot, upon due inquiry, be found therein, or that he conceals himself
within this state, every such defendant shall be deemed and taken to be
an absent defendant, and thereupon the chancellor may, by order, direct
such absent defendant to appear, plead, answer or demur to the com
plainant’s bill, at a certain day therein to be named, not less than one nor
more than three months from the (late of such order ; (a) of which order such
notice as the chancellor shall by rule direct shall, within ten days there
after, be served personally on such defendant, by a delivery of a copy
thereof to him, or be published in one or more of the public newspapers Publication of.
printed in this state and designated in such order, for four weeks suc
cessively, at least once in each week; and in case of such publication, a
copy of such notice shall be mailed to such defendant, prepaid, directed to
him at the post-office nearest his residence or the post-ofﬁce at which he usu
ally receives his letters, (b) unless such residence or post-office be unknown
and cannot be ascertained upon making such inquiries as the chancellor
may, by rule, prescribe in such case, which said notice shall also be pub
lished or served in any other manner that the chancellor may see proper
in the same to direct; and in case such absent defendant shall not appear, Decree pro con
plead, answer or demur within the time so limited, or within some further fesso against, or
may be
time to be allowed by the chancellor, if he shall think proper, and on proof proofs
required.
of personal service, or the publication and the mailing of said notice, as
aforesaid, and of the performance of the direction contained in said order,

to the satisfaction of the chancellor, the chancellor may order- and direct
that the cornplainant’s bill be taken as confessed against such absent
defendant so failing to plead, answer or demur, or the chancellor may, at

his discretion, order the complainant to procure documents, depositions,
exhibits, or other evidence to substantiate and prove the allegations in the
(cu So, where a husband had separated mum his wife, and he
resided out of the state, service on her at her domicil was held
insuﬂicient. .)[cl’h(*rxon v. Holuel, 3 Boas. 85. Issuing a sub
pcena against a non-resident, taking an order for his appearance
and publishing the order, will not give the courtjurisdiction

either over his person or the subject-matter of the bill, if, from
the nature oi‘ the ease, the court has no Jurisdiction over either.

Illjfurtl v. Tltm-n, 3 Hal. Ch. 90. An error in the name oi‘ the
paper in which the notice to an absent defendant was directed
to be published is amendable after sale under execution. Equil
tllflé" .22/gdsgiruncn Society v. Laird, 9 C’. E. Gr. 3l9; affirmed,
.

‘I’.

.

(b) It must clearly appear that the notice was sent to the de
fendant's P. O. address, and the source of the complainant‘s or
his solicitors information must be stated. Rom rs v. R0;/£11, 3
C. E. Gr. 445. The proof rm-ty be subs uentiy supplied. Dim
morr v. Wemrolt, 10 C. L1 (Jr. 302.
ere the notice was en

titled in the cause and not directed to the defendant nor mailed
within twenty days after the date of the order. the defendant
was held not to be within the jurisdiction of the court. Jim-r v.

Karr,-1 0. E. Gr. 427.

_

406

CHANCERY.
bill, or the chancellor may examine the complainant on oath or aﬂirmation,
touching or concerning the allegations in the bill, and thereupon such
decree shall be made, in either case, as the chancellor shall think, equitable
and just; and that the provisions of this section shall apply to petitions
and hills for divorce]
‘

173. Sso. 2. That the nineteenth section of the said act be amended to
Defendant bound
by decree as if
served with pro
cess within the
state.

Security, when

may be required.

read as follows :
['l‘hat any defendant upon whom such notice is served as herein directed
shall be bound by the decree in such case as if he were served with process
within the state, (a) but in such cases where the same shall be published
and sent by mail, if such defendant shall make oath that he did not receive
the same, and that it did not in any way come to his knowledge, within
ten days after the time within which it was directed to be served; or in
cases where actual service is sworn to, if it shall be made to appear by
satisfactory proof that such service was not made, the chancellor may, in
his discretion, before executing such decree, proceed to take security in the
manner provided in the twenty-ﬁrst section of this act.]

174. Ssc. 3. That the twenty-fourth section of the said act be amended
to read as follows:
Plan or demurrer,
when to be ﬁled.

[That when a subpoena to answer shall have been returned duly served
by the proper officer, or the appearance of the defendant shall have been
signed, or service of a subpoena acknowledged, as hereinbefore mentioned,
the defendant shall ﬁle his plea or demurrer to the bill of complaint within
thirty days from the return day of the subpoena, unless further time be
granted, and the cause, within ten (lays thereafter, not-iced and set down
for argument for the next term, by the party demurring or pleading]

175. SEC. 4. That the twenty-ﬁfth section of‘ the said.act be amended to
Answer, when to
be filed.

If plea or de

murrer overruled,
answer must be
ﬂied.

Entering ofa earance by e

endant shnii not
stay execution.

Suits heretofore
commenced not
affected.
Bepesler.

read as follows :
[That the answer to any bill in chancery shall be ﬁled within thirty days
from the return day of the subpoena, in case no plea or demurrer be ﬁled,
unless further time be granted] (b)
176. Ssc. 5. That the thirty-ﬁrst section of the said act be amended to
read as follows:
[That if the plea or demurrer be overruled, no other plea or demurrer
shall be thereafter received; but in such case the defendant shall ﬁle his
answer to the complainant’s bill in twenty (lays after such overruling, and
if he fail to do so, the said bill shall be taken as confessed, and the said
court shall thereupon proceed as directed in the twenty-eighth section of
this act.] (c)
177. SEC. 6. That in any suit hereafter commenced the entering of an
appearance by a defendant shall not operate to stay the issuing of an
execution therein.

178. SEO. ‘i. That this act shall take effect immediately, but shall not
affect any suit heretofore commenced; and that all acts and parts of acts
inconsistent herewith be and the same are hereby repealed.

Supplement.

P. L. i893, p. 25¢.
Proceedinzs
where it cannot
be ascertained
whether absent
defendant Is alive,
or lfdead, names
and residences of
heirs or personal
representatives
not known.

Approved March 13, 1593.

179. Ssc. 1. That in all actions hereafter commenced in the court of
chanccry of New Jersey, by bill, petition. or otherwise. whenever it shall
appear by the allegations oi‘ the said bill or petition. duly veriﬁed by the
affidavit of the complainant or petitioner, or by one of them, if‘ there shall
be more than one complainant or petitioner, or his or their agent or soli
citor, thereto annexed, that any person mentioned in said bill or petition,

(n) Adecree pronounced against an absent defendant who
had been notified ofthe suit in ihe manner prescribed b ' the
statute, is, in all respects, Just as valid and effectual or all
local purposes as a decree made against a defendant who has
been brought into court by the personal service ofprocess.
Jllnlual In.\-urnncr Lh_ v_ Prim-r, I6 St: w. 52.
('1) \\'hen the inst day forﬂiing an answer fails on a ieiml
holiday, r. _r/., Christmas, fiiimz it on the next day on which the

20l§ll'k'§ Ofﬂce is open will be sufficient. I‘I'w'hhmn;!u~ v. )lrC1»oI,
. rw. L51,

(r) After a demurrer is overruled the defendant cannot ﬂie. a
plea. While v. Dummcr. 1 Gr. Ch. 527. Hal! v. l\'irImI.ton, HaL
Dlﬂ. 231. Nor will leave to ﬂie n plea belzrauted after demurrer
overruled ifit is manifest that ihe plea offered, if true in fact,

would he no bar to the relief sought. by the bill. §'¢¢l»11 v. Prim,
Hal. I'll. 231. See lI1‘oa<luv'lI v. 1)u1num, 2 Hal. ‘Z78.
'|'r'k
pnlrlclr v. Corning, 1'.‘ S/1 w. 22.

407

CHANCERY.
or his heirs, devisees or personal representatives, are proper parties defend
ant to said bill of complaint or said petition; and that the complainant,
after diligent and careful inquiry therefore, made as in case of absent
defendants, has been unable to ascertain whether such person is still alive,
or if he is known or believed to be dead, has been unable to ascertain the

names and residences of his heirs, devisees or personal representatives, or
such oi‘ them as may be proper parties defendant as aforesaid, such action
may proceed against such person by name, and his heirs, devisees and
personal representatives, as 'in the case of absent defendants whose names
are known; provided, neuerlheless, that such notice as is now required by
law to be published against absent defendants in default of personal ser
vice, addressed to such person by name, and to “heirs, devisees and
personal representatives,” and containing such further statements and
giving such further time as the chancellor may by his order direct be ﬁrst
published and mailed in such manner as the chancellor may, by his order
in said action,direct; and in case such person,or his heirs, devisees or
personal representatives, shall not appear, plead, answer or demur within
the time limited in said notice, or further allowed by the chancellor, if he
shall think proper, on proof to the satisfaction of the chancellor of
mailing and publication of said notice as directed; such action may pro
ceed in all respects as if such person, or his heirs, devisees or personal
representatives had been duly named and described a'nd served with
process of subpoena in said action, and had failed to plead, answer or
demur to the complainant’s bill of complaint, or petitioner’s petition
within the time thereto allowed by law.

180. SEC. 2. That all such defendants, and all persons falling within
the description of “heirs, devisees or personal representatives” of the
defendant supposed to be dead as aforesaid, shall thereupon be bound by
all orders and decrees in said cause as if they had been duly named and
described and served with process in this state.
181. SEC. 3. That proofs may be made, costs allowed, security ordered
and proceedings for restitution or other relief from said decrees and orders
had in like manner as the same are now allowed by law in the case of
absent defendants.

182.

SEO. 4. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the pro

Proviso.

Notice to heirs,
doc. , what to
contain.

Such defendants,
heirs, &c., bound
by orders and
decrees.

Proof, costs, &c.,
as in case of
absent defendants.

Repealer.

visions of this act be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act
shall take effect immediately.
Supplement.

.
Approved June 18, 1896.

183. S1-:0. 1. That the clerk in chancery shall not be paid by the state
any compensation or expenses for the arranging, labeling and docketing of
the pleadings and other papers ﬁled in the oﬁice of the clerk of the court
of chancery, or for any other services required by chapter ﬁve hundred
and ninety-eight of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-one, being
the supplement of April sixth, one thousand eight hundred and seventy
one, to an act respecting the court of chancery ; but all such services shall
be rendered and performed by the clerk in chance1'y without compensation

P. L. 1895, p. -E19.
Clerk in chancery

to receive no com
pensation for
docketing, &a,
papers.

Services to be
rendered without
compensation.

and at his own expense.

'

'

184. SEO. 2. That the clerk in chancery shall receive no compensation,
nor any sum for expenses except for blanks and stationery, for services
rendered by him in suits and proceedings commenced on behalf of the
state to enforce the payment of taxes by corporations or to enjoin corpora
tions from doing Business because of the non-payment of taxes; but all
services of the clerk in such suits and proceedings shall be rendered by the
clerk without charge.

Clerk lo receive
no compensation
in corporation

cases.

CHOSEN FREEHOLDERS.

408

XVI. Miscellaneous.
An act in relation to the practice in the court of chancery on bills
of interpleader.
Approved March 13, 1893.

P. L. 1893, p. 251.
Counsel fee
awarded to com
plainant on bill
of interpleader.

185. SEC. 1. That in all cases in which the court of chancery shall decree
an interpleader as between the defendants to a bill of interpleader, the said

court shall award to the complainant a counsel fee commensurate with the
service of his counsel in the cause, to be taxed in the bill of costs and col
lected therewith.

Chosen Freeholders.
I. GENERAL AC1‘ TO INCORPORATE CHOSEN FREE
HOLDERS. VVITH SLTPPLEMENTS.

55. Repealer.
56. Clerk to call special meetings of board.
57. County courts may be provided with reports and text»

1. Incorporation and names oi‘ boards.
books.
2. General powers.
3. Process, how served on.

58. Term of oiﬂce oi‘ freeholders.
59. Repealer.

4. May raise money, for what.
5. May adjourn from time to time.

60. State publications to be sent to clerks ofcountles having
law libraries.

6. Annual meeting.
61. Chosen freeholders to provide books and stationery for

7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
18.
17.
18.

Director to be elected.
Amended by section 48.
Clerk to deliver papers to his successor.
Amended by section 56.
Penalty for non-attendance.
How money assessed and raised.
How, when tax required to be raised at different times.
Appeal from assessment.
Proceedings against delinquents.
Proofofdemand required.
How justice to proceed.
How process to be executed.

19. Election and bond of county collector.
20. Vacancy may be supplied.

21.
‘Z2.
23.
24.
25.

Oﬂlcers to account and remedy against.
Liability of county collector.
\Vhen taxes collected to be paid.
When township responsible for money lost.
Duty and liability oi‘ township collector and constable.

26.
27.
2%.
.

County collector to pay to order of corporation.
Penalty for neglect or refusal.
Amended by sections 62 and 65.
Further duties ofjustices and constables.

courts and county officers.

62. Amended by section 65.
63. Repeaier.
64. Investment oi‘ monies in sinking fund.
65. County collectors‘ fees.
66. Repealer.

67. Term of oilice of county auditor.
68. Chosen freeholders to subscribe an ofﬂcial oath.
II. CLASSIFIED COUNTIES.
69. Counties.how classiﬁed.
70. Classes distinguished by population.
71. Vlfhat a sumcient classification in any law.

(A) ACTS RELATING TO COU.\'Ti% OF‘ THE FIRST CLASS.

72. Appropriation for construction, &c., oi‘ public hospital.
73. Annual appropriation and by whom expended.
74. County board of health to have exclusive charge of expen
ditu res.
. When board may issue bonds for hospital.
. Repealer.

Poorhouses.
. By whom governed and regulated.

. May pay claims oi‘ newspapers for printing minutes in
certain cases.

11533
$3-1 °?‘3.'°3?$f-='.F-*

."35'5
2j$§ %38€<‘£3.’83§ ‘.'-’,8$ Poor, support and employment oi‘.

How boards constituted.
Meeting for organization.
. Compensation ofniembcrs, &c.

. Two counties may have one poorhouse.
. May jointly procure materials.
. And apportion expense.
. Amended by section 49.

Vacancies, how filled.

. Term "township" construed.

Powers, authority, &c
Terms of members now in oﬂice. when to expire.

All laws in force, not conflicting. to apply.

. Powers, &c.. continued until organization oi’ new board.
Lands, &c., vested in the board.
Less than quorum may adjourn.

Terms ofpresent oilicers, when to expire.
Repcaler.

. Power to sell and convey.

. When township may

erect poorhouse.

Exempt from
(Bl ACTS RELA'l‘I.\'0 TO COl'NTIF.S OF TH]-I SF.('O.\'D CLASS.

other poor tax.

Publication oi‘ annual statement.
. \Vhat annual statement to embrace.
Amended by sections 47 and 54.
Boards of chosen freeholders may purchase bonds oi’ the

county
Amended by section 54.
-l8. Election of clerk of board.

49. Compensation oi‘ members of hoard.
50. At what meeting bills shall be ordered paid.
51. Amended by sections 53 and 63.
62. (‘hairnian oi" committee of board may administer oaths to
\\' l i ll (>s.si1'S.
53. Amended by section 68.
54. County collector lo publish annual statement.

87. Terms oi‘ oilice oi‘ solicitor and clerk.
SS. Monthly statement ofexpendltures lo be published.

89. Designation oi‘ newspapers to publish.
90

Repealer.

91. .\iay issue bonds to build bridges.
92. Pay nieut of same to be provided by taxation.
93. .\iay erect counly l)Ull(lllli_,'S.
94. Board shall appoint building commission.
95. Organi7.ation and powersofcoinniissiouers.

96. .\iay issue bonds for such purpose.
97. Form and condition oi‘ bonds.

93. Principal and interest lo be provided for.
99. Work to he done by contract.

100. Repealer.

COURTS.
IV. COI.'.\"I'\' CO URTS.
89. Fo\\'cr of court of common pleas, &c., to adjourn over to
subsequent day in term.
90. Pleas my appoint special term, try appeals, &c.
91. Number ofjudges of the court of common pleas, &c.
92. Amended by section 95.
93. Clerk of county to be clerk of special quarter sessions.
Bheriﬂ to be oiﬂecr of court.
M. Judge of special sessions to determine legal rules. &c.
95. Proceedings for trial where indictment and trial byjury

are wnivezi.
96. Lnwjntige may accept plea without layjudge.
97. Licenses, &c., may be granted by two Judges of common
pleas.
98. Itcpenler.

99. Number of layjutiges in common pleas courts.
100. No appointment oi‘ lay judges to he made till numberis

101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.

reduced.
Action of court when valid.
Quarter aeaaions court may be held by law judgeand one
inyjudga in certain cases.
Law judge may preside in courts of other counties.
May preside during absence, &c., of justice of supremo
court.
Requests to preside to be in writing.
Proceedings of courts so presided over to be valid.
No justice of the peace to be appointed judge oi’ common
pleas.
Two judges of common pleas may hold pleas, orphans‘
court and sessions, &.c.

1021

116. Persons charged with oﬂbnse triabie in quarter sessions
may waive indictment and trial byjury.

117. Clerk of county to be clerk of court, issue process, &c.
118. Compensation of judges.
119. Repoaier.

120. Amended by section 1?.‘.‘_
121. Ptepealer.
22. In counties having population exceeding l50,000,judgea of

common pleas authorized to appoint 5€1'§EB.lJlB-Bl-8.1118.
123. Repealer.

124. Amended by section 126.
125. Repeaier.
1%. Supreme court justice in districts comprising counties of
first clam authorized to appoint sergeant-avarms, &c.
127. Supreme court justice in districts comprising counties with
Population between 70,000 and 150,000 may appoint ser
geant~at-arms.

128. Repeale r.
129. Employment of stenogrnplierln the court ofcommon pleas
and quarter sessions, when authorized.
180. Compensation of stenogrupher.

181. Stenographer to be sworn.
V. TERMS AND PLACFS OF HOLDING CERTAIN
COURTS.
131 Court of errors may change times of stated terms.
183. Chancellor may change times oi‘ stated terms ofcourt of
chaucery.

I

184. Supreme court may change times of stated terms of
supreme, circuit and county courts.
135. ‘Vixen change shall become operative.

109. Repeaier.

110. Designation ofjudge to act in absence or vacancy in oﬂica
oi’ lnw or presidentjudge of any county.
111. Presidingjudges may appoint interpreter.
112. Interpreter to be in constant attendance upon courts.
118. Compensation of interpreter.
114. Successor to presidentjudge of common pleas and another
judge to sign judgments unsigned.
115. Cou rts of common pleas, &c., in counties of second class,
how constituted.

136. Schedule may be printed in volumes of public laws.

187. Stated terms oi‘ county courts.
138. \\'hen writs returnable.

139. For what. time courts may be held.
"I. A'I’I‘OR1\'EY.\‘.
H0. Examination of applicants for ndtuiss on 118 attorneys.

1~11. Repeaier.

'

I. Court of errors and appeals.
H. S. 193.

An act relative to the court of errors and appeals.
Revision—A pproved March 27, 1874.

1. That the court of errors and appeals shall hold annually, at Trenton,
three stated terms; commencing on the second Tuesday of March and
third Tuesday of June and November respectively, and such special terms,
not exceeding two in any one year, as the court may from time to time

P. L. I852, p. 746.
“ 1853, p. 261.
Terms, when and
where held.
R. S. 193, Q 1.

appoint.

2. That if a sufficient number of members to constitute the court shall
not attend on the ﬁrst day of the term, it shall be lawful for the members
attending to adjourn from day to day until a sufficient number shall
attend, or to adjourn till the next term, in which case the writs and pro
cesses then returnable, and all suits, pleadings and proceedings depending
before the court, shall be continued of course till such subsequent term.
3. That the chancellor, when present, shall be the president of the
court; in case of his absence, the chief justice of the supreme court; and
in case of his absence, the senior in oilice of thejustices of the supreme
court who may be present.
4. That the oath of oilice and of allegiance may be administered to the
president by any member, and by the president to each of the other
members of the court.
5. Thai; when a vacancy happens in the oilice of any of the six
appointed judges of the court, before his term of office as such judge
has expired, his successor shall be appointed and hold for the unexpired
term only.
6. That; the court shall have power to appoint, from time to time, such
subordinate oiﬁcers, as maybe necessary for the convenient transaction
of business, and to ﬁx their compensation.

May adjourn.

In.. Q 2.

Who to preside.
Ib., Q 3.

Oaths.
1b., Q 4.

Vacancies tilled.
Ib., Q 5.

Oﬂiicers and their
compensation.

[b., Q 6.

COURTS.

1022
Compensation of
the court and
clerk.
1b., Q 7.
P. L. 1852, p. 346.
“ 1863, p. 261.
"

1865, P. 918.

7. That the compensation of the clerk of said court shall be the sum of
three dollars; that of the chancellor and of the justices of the supreme
court, severally, ﬁve dollars; and that of the lay judges, severally, eight

dollars by the day for every day they shall respectively attend the court ;
and the sum of one dollar for every ten miles they shall travel in going
to and returning from the place oi’ holding the court, on the most usual
route. (l)

How paid.
.lK. S. i‘J1l,Q8.

Reasons of court
below to be sub
milled in writing.

1b.. I 9.
Court to deliver
opinion in writing.
Ih., Q 10.
Process, how

signed and tested.
Ih., Q 11.
Amended.
Error to circuit
court.
1b., Q 12.

8. That the compensation aforesaid shall be paid by the treasurer of the
state, upon a certificate signed by the president of the court.
9. That the reasons to be assigned by the chancellor for his decree, and
by the justices of the supreme court. or by the judges of the circuit court,
for their judgment, shall be submitted in writing before the argument of
the appeal or writ of error, as the case may be.
10. That on pronouncing any judgment, order or decree, either of ai’ﬁrm
auce or reversal, the opinion of this court, containing the reasons for such
aﬂirmance or reversal, shall be delivered in writing.
11. That writs and processes issued out of this court, shall be signed by
the clerk and tested in the name of the president, and may be made return
able at any of the stated terms oi‘ the court, or at such time in vacation as
the court may, by rule, from time to time prescribe. (a)

12. That writs of error to remove ﬁnal judgments in any circuit court,
directly into this court, may be brought in the same manner and subject to
the same rules as are now provided in case of a writ of error to the supreme
court. (b)

Costs on appeal.

13. That it shall be in the discretion of this court, in cases ofappeal from

1b.,g 13.

a decree or order of the chancellor, to award costs or not. (0)

Paper-, &c., to be
sent up on appeal
from chancery.

14.-. That in cases oi‘ appeal i'rom a decree or order ofthe court oi‘ chancery,
it shall be the duty oi‘ the clerk of the court oi‘ chancery to deliver to the clerk
of this court all the pleadings, depositions, exhibits and papers which may
have been filed in his oiﬁce, relating to the cause in which the appeal hath
been taken, and also the several orders and decree made in said cause, in
stead oi‘ a transcript of the proceedings, giving the said clerk of the court
oi‘ chancery a receipt for the same; which papers shall be ﬁled by the clerk
of this court for the purpose ofbeing used at the hearing of such appeal.

1b., Q H.

Papers to be re

turned aﬂer
decision.
Ib., Q 15.

Causes continued.
1b.. Q l6.

Conn to make
rules.
Proviso.

15. That when a cause hath been decided by ﬁnal decree or order of this

court, it shall be the duty oi’ the clerk to return to the clerk of the court of
chancery all the papers which have been received by him from the clerk
oi‘ the court of chancery in such cause, for which he shall take a receipt,
together with a copy of the order or decree of the court, which order or
decree it shall be the duty of the court oi‘ chancery to carry into effect;
and it shall be the duty of the said clerks to ﬁle the said receipts in their
respective oiiices, for the benefit of the parties interested in said papers. (rl)

16. That all causes depending in the court oi‘ appeals in the last resort,
at and immediately before the time when the present constitution went
into operation, shall be continued, and further proceedings therein may be
had in the court of errors and appeals. established by said constitution;
and the said court of errors and appeals may, from time to time, make
rules and regulations of practice, and alter, amend or revoke any rule of
practice, so as to obviate doubts, advance justice, and expedite suits; pro
vided, the same be not contrary to this act, the constitution oi‘ this state or

of the United States. (e)
495.

of appeals where the judgment was rendered. if the record
Still remains there, or to the court below ifiv. has been remined.

(ll) If the party remove his cause from the clrcul! by wrii oi’
error to the supreme court. he cannot, upon that writ beingriia
(Farr v. I’t|ulmirr, 1
missed, remove it to the court of errors.

.R!(lIliTl(l, 1 Hal. 186.

Z011. 6:41. See Emmns, Sec. 5.
(cl This discretion oi‘ the court to award costs or not. is not ex
tenyded ro writs of error. Lrlrigh Valley B. R. ('0. v. Zilrihrtaml,

Allrn v. .Hopp¢1‘. 4 Zab. 514. The court of chancery must mrry
such order or decree into elfeci. according to its plain intent;
and in doing so it musieouﬂneilselfstricriywllhin iisulioired

(u) See (hrttr v. Smnrrs, 1 kw. 561, notr.

15

Anonymoiw. wen.

r. 678.
(di Chancery will give to n. decision of the court of appeals.

made in the same cause, its fair and just legal cil'ccI.. Srmwlifll
v. Sriowlrill, 1 Gr. 1"h. 30.

See Huh

Duris v. 11¢ mil: 3/, 7 C. E. (Ir. ll-'1.

Afler such remlmmce, no

motion for leave to issue execuiion is necessary.

Reading v.

See Brmnngiln v. (.'hr-10,6 0. E. Hr. 1&1

sphere, and it must not. in any \va_\', attempt to evade. lm ede
or defcutsuch command. Jewett v. I)r~Ingwr, 4 i§‘lm¢'. 589.
'1»

grr v. Rrlrzircr, 15 Slew. 577.

.llvGmil v. Mrﬁlrait, 6 Dick. 53".

v. Lau-rrnrr 2 Zub. 73.

(0) For cases when appeal may be brought, see Crraxcaav,

Alter lhe jinhgment has been

Soc. ii4, and notes. If u constitutional quorum of the judges
attend and vole it is suﬂicient, although one or more of the
members be excused from voiing. Gihbom v. Ogden, 2S0ulJL
"1460. ]l'1‘1m!lil*r1l v. Iknuum, '2 Ilul. 278. Clapp \'. Ely, 3 Dutch.

entered and the papers remitted. the court oi‘ nppeulshns no
l‘nrthcr_|urlsdiction with respect to the 1-use. King/v. Rm-kman,
7 ('. E. Gr. 551. A writ oi‘ error in remove a cause to the

upreme court ofthe United Siuu-s may be directed to the court
(1) B

Brunuq/im v. Chew, 6 I’. E. Gr. 180.

G22.

Ilouv-It v. ’1'u!(lr, 2 U. E. Gr. 547.

P. L. IP01“. p. 829, the chancellor and Justices oi‘ the supreme COLil‘l. receive an annual salary and are not entitled to any per

diem, lees or allowances.

Bee post, Lille S.\1..\rur'.s.

COURTS.

1023

Supplement.
‘

Approved April 5, 1878.

P. L. ms, p. 321.

17. Ssc. 1. That in case of an appeal from any order or decree of the
chancellor, such judges of the court of errors and appeals, being justices of
the supreme court, as may be appointed for that purpose by the said court

Judges ofcourt of
appeals, appointed

of errors and appeals (not exceeding three), may, in vacation, by order

by order, continue
injunctions, &c.

signed by them upon good cause shown, continue in its original force and
eifcct any injunction or order of the chancellor which may have been
dissolved or vacated or modiﬁed by him, and may also stay all the pro
ceedings in the original suit until the next succeeding term of the court of
errors and appeals, and may also make all necessary orders in the premises.

for that purpose,
may, in vacation,

R. S. 196, ‘Z00.

II. Supreme and circuit courts.

P. 1.. 1350, p. so.
"
u

An act relative to the supreme and circuit courts.
Revision—Approved March 27, 1874.

18. Sac. 1. That the supreme court shall consist of a chiefjustice and
six associate justices, and shall hold annually three stated terms, com
mencing on the fourth Tuesday in February, and the ﬁrst Tuesday in June
and November, respectively; and such special terms not exceeding two in
any one year, as the court may from time to time appoint. (a) [See Sec.
45, post.
19. S20. 2. That the said supreme court may be held by the chiefjus
tice or any one of the said justices; and that every day of each stated term,
except Sunday, shall be a return day.

20. S1-:0. 3. That it shall be lawful for the justices of the supreme court,
at every term thereof, to designate in such way as to them may seem
proper, one or more of their number to sit during term time in a separate
apartment from that in which the regular term is held, for the purpose of
hearing and deciding all such matters as by the rules of the said court, are
or "may be denominated common business, whose -decisions and judgments
shall be as good and effectual as if they had been rendered at the bar of

18-53, p. 28-5.
1855, p. 17.
1865, p. 409.
1571, p. iii.

Supreme court
constituted.
R. S. 196, Q 1.

P. L. 1855,11. 11.
Terms.

May be held by

one justice.
B. S. 196, ¢ 2.
Branch cou rt
constituted.
Ib., E 3.

said court. (b)

21. Sac. 4. That the chief justice or one of the justices of the supreme
coiirt, before whom the circuit court in every county of this state shallbe
held, shall try all issues which have been or shall be joined in the supreme
court, or in any other court and brought into the supreme court to be
tried, and which are or may be triable in the said county.
22. Sac. 5. That the chief justice and every justice of the supreme court
shall be and hereby is authorized and required, at the said circuit court,
to try such issues and take such inquests by default or otherwise, as are or

Issues tried by
whom.
lb.,Q7.

Duty ofjustices
at circuits.
Ib., Q 10.

ought to be tried or taken in the said court, to record nonsuits and defaults,

to take assizes and to do and execute all other matters and things which
by law may or ought to be done respecting the premises.
23. SEC. 6. That the supreme court in term time, or any two justices
thereof in vacation, whenever in their opinion the ends of justice and the
public interest require it, may order a special circuit court to be holden in
any county in this state for the trial of any indictment or indictments for
murder or manslaughter, which have been or may be removed into the
supreme court, and which may require to be tried in the circuit court of
such county ; but such order shall designate the indictment or indictments
to be tried at such special court, and whether to be tried by a jury or juries
of the county in which such special court is to be held, or by a foreign
jury or juries; and upon the service of a copy of such order upon the
sheriff of said county, at least twenty-live days before the time appointed
for holding such special circuit, it shall be his duty to cause to be selected
(rt) By force of section 1 of article Vi. of the constitution, the
nature of the supreme court can be altered only by a. modifica

tion of the constitution itself.

Under lhis constitutional guar

antee, the powers which inhered in the court at the formation

of the constitution must be unassallabie by legislation.
hagm v. Wrst Hobolrcri, I0 Vr. 235.

Trap

Special circuit
courts authorized,
in what canes.
Ib., 5 15.

(5% This act is constitutional. It is not necessary that the
who e or n majority oi’ the Justices constituting the courlshould
W'00d \'. Flthlan, 4
Zab. 888.

hear or determine any particular cause.

1024

COURTS.

Jurors to be
summoned.

and to summon in the manner directed by law, a sufﬁcient number of petit
jurors to serve at such court, unless the indictment or indictments to be
tried at such special court is or are to be tried by a foreign jury or juries ;
and all process of venire and subpoena made returnable thereat, shall be
as
goodcourt.
and effectual
as _if the same were made returnable to a stated term
of said
(a)l

Mode of obtaining

24. SEO. 7. That in cases arising under the last preceding section,foreign
juries shall be obtained and special circuit courts held upon such terms,
and subject to such rules and regulations as the supreme court shall from
time to time order and direct.
25. SEC. 8. That the state shall be divided into sevenjudicial districts;
the ﬁrst district shall include the counties of Cape May, Cumberland, Salem
and Atlantic; the second, the counties of Gloucester, Camden and Bur
lington; the third, the counties of Mercer, Hunterdon and Warren; the

such furelgnjurles.
Ib., Q 17.

Districts created.
P. L. 18-55,1). 17

fourth, the counties of Ocean, Monmouth and Middlesex; the ﬁfth, the
couhties of Morris, Sussex and Somerset; the sixth, the counties of Passaic,

Appolntment of
Justices to them.
Ib.

Bergen and Hudson; the seventh, the counties of Essex and Union. [See
Sec. 46, post]
26. Snc. 9. That the circuit court in each of the counties of the several
districts shall be held by the justice to whom such district has been or
shall hereafter be assigned by the justices of the supreme court; provided,
that if from sickness or any other cause he shall be prevented from holding
any of said courts in his district, the same may be held by any other of

said justices; and provided further, that a new assignment may be made
whenever the business of the courts may render it necessary.
Appointment of

sergeants-at-arms
and criers.
P. L. 18.50, p. 50.

-*

1371, p. 111.

Supreme court
may be c-onvoked
In vamtlon.
Revision.

Circuit courts,
by whom held.

B. S. 200, 6 1.
Tests and return
of process.
Ib., Q 2.

27. Sac. 10. That thejustices of the supreme court be and they are hereby
authorized to appoint two suitable persons as sergeants-at-arms and criers
of said courts, to hold their offices during the pleasure of said court, whose
duty it shall be to attend said court during the several terms thereof, for
which service they shall severally receive three dollars per day, for each
day they shall be in actual attendance upon said court, to be paid by the
treasurer, on the certiﬁcate of the chief justice or any other of the justices
of said court.
28. SEO. 11. That the chiefjustice, with the assent of two of the associate
justices, whenever in their opinion the ends of justice and the public interest
require it, may,at any time, in vacation, order the supreme court toibe
convoked and held, upon a notice of the time ﬁxed for the meeting of the
court, served not less than two days prior thereto, on each member of
the court.
29. SEO. 12. That the circuit courts in and for the several counties of this
state, shall be held by one or more of the justices of the supreme court, at
the times and places prescribed by law.
'
30. SEO. 13. That the justices of the supreme court shall be judges of said
circuit courts, and all writs and process issuing out of said circuit courts
shall be tested in the name of one of the judges of’ said court, and be

returnable therein; and the judgments entered in such circuit courts shall
have the same force and etfect, when properly entered and recorded, as
Regulated, by
what laws.
Ib., Q 3.

Ministerial oili
cers and their
duty.
Ib., Q i0.

the judgments of the courts of common pleas of the respective counties.
31. Sac. 14. That the said circuit courts, in all personal actions and causes

originally commenced therein, shall be regulated and governed in their
proceedings by the same laws as the courts of common pleas now are;
and in all real and mixed actions originally commenced, or personal actions
removed therein, shall be regulated and governed in their proceedings, as
near as may be, by the same laws as the supreme court now is.
32. SEC. 15. That the sheriffs, coroners, elisors and constables of the
several counties in this state, for the time being, shall be the ministerial
officers of said circuit courts held within their respective counties, and
shall execute all writs, precepts and process issuing out of said courts,
and to them directed and delivered, and make true returns thereof, accord

ing to the command in the same.
(14) The absence of the defendant when an order for a speclll

circuit was made did not vitlnte the order, and the panel of

Jurors was good when made under the order and according to

this section. Slat: v. Peak, 11 .\'. J. L. J. 201.

COURTS.

1025

33. Sac. 16. That the clerks of the several courts of common pleas shall
be the clerks of said circuit courts in their respective counties, be entitled
to the same fees _and subject to the same pains and penalties as are by law

Of the clerks of
said courts.
1b., Q ll.

prescribed in relation to the clerks of the courts of common pleas, except
in real or mixed actions, and personal actions removed into said circuit
courts. by certiorari; in which the said clerks shall perform the same
duties and be entitled to the same fees as are by law prescribed and allowed
to the clerk of the supreme court.
34. SEC. 17. That if any justice of the supreme court, by whom any cir
cuit court or court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery is to be
held, shall be prevented from attending on the day and at the place, when
and where any such court is to be commenced and held, or on any day in
the term, no process returnable to, nor any recognizance entered into for
the appearance of any person at such courts respectively, nor any indict
ment, suit or other proceeding depending therein, shall be thereby abated,
discontinued or avoided, but the same shall remain and be in full force, as
if suchjustice had opened and attended such courts; and it shall be the
duty of the clerk of the said courts to cause the same to be opened by

When justice pre
vented from at
tending, clerk to

open and adjourn
court.
R. S. 190.
Amended,

proclamation, in the usual form; and in case one of the justices of the

supreme court shall not attend during the day, then the clerk shall in like
manner adjourn the said courts to the next day, and so from day to day,
until one of the said justices shall be present, or until such courts shall be
adjourned for the term, as hereinafter is directed; which proceedings shall
be regularly entered by the clerk in the minutes of the said courts.
35. SEC. 18. That if thejustice of the supreme court by whom any cir
cuit court, or court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery, is to be
held, shall be prevented from attending on the day and at the place when
and where any such court is commenced, or on any day during the term,
the court of common pleas then and there held may order the clerk,
instead of proceeding as is required by the preceding section, to adjourn
said circuit court, and court of oyer and terminer and general jail
delivery. by proclamation, to any subsequent day that shall be requested
by anyjustice of the supreme court in writing or otherwise, and to enter
said adjournment in the minutes of said circuit court, and court of oyer
and terminer and general jail delivery; and all suits, indictments, pro

Judges of pleas
may adjourn

court.

P. L. 1865, p. 409.
Amended.

cesses, orders, rules, recognizances, returns of jurors and other proceed

ings pending in such courts shall be continued to the time to which such
adjournment shall be made, without prejudice to any parties therein, and
may then be proceeded in according to law in the same manner as if such
courts had been regularly adjourned from day to day. (n)

36. SEC. 19. That if no justice of the supreme court shall attend before

In what cases

clerks may ad
twelve o'clock on the third day of the term as ﬁxed by law, or at the journ
court for
time to which the court may have been adjourned, then the clerk of the term.
R.
S.
196,
Q 19.
said court of oyer and terminer, and general jail delivery, and circuit court,
shall _cause the same, by proclamation in the usual manner, to be adjourned Amended.
to meet according to law; and in such case all suits, actions, indictments,
rules and other proceedings pending in the said courts respectively, except
such as may be tried in the court of general quarter sessions of the peace,
shall be continued and stand over to the next ensuing term of the said
courts without prejudice to any of the parties.
37. SEO. 20. That the circuit courts, or court of oyer and terminer, and Courts may ad
over it-om
general jail delivery, when sitting in and for any county in this state may lourn
one day to another
be adjourned o\'er from any one day in term to any subsequent day in the in term.
same term whenever the public convenience and that of the members of 1u.,¢2o.
the court may require or justify such adjournment; and in case of such
adjournment, all suits, indictments, processes, orders, rules, recognizances,
and other proceedings pending in such courts shall be continued to the
time to which said adjournment shall be made, without prejudice to any
of the parties therein, and may then be proceeded in according to law, in

so) At the opening ofa term, no justice of the supreme court
be ng present, the court of common pleas ordered an adjourn
ment oi’ the oyer and terminer to a later day. Held, that such

adjournment did not continue the return of the grand Jury to
the returned day. so as to prevent the immediate organization
of that body by the sessions. Randall v. Stale, 24 Vr. 436.

65

COURTS.

1026

One justice may
take place of
another in hold
ing court.
Ib., Q '.‘.l.

To be adjourned
for term ifjustice
cannot attend.
Ib., Q 22.

the same manner as might have been done if such court or courts had
been adjourned from day to day.
38. SEO. 21. That in case the justice of the supreme court holding any cir
cuit court, or court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery, shall be
prevented from continuing to preside at such court until the business
thereof shall be ﬁnished, then it shall and may be lawful for any other
justice of the supreme court to take his place and to proceed with the
business of the said courts, in the same manner as he might have done if
he had been present and presiding at the commencement of the term.

39. SEC. 22. That if at any time during the session of any circuit court
or court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery, the justice of the
supreme court holding and presiding at such court or courts, shall be pre
vented from continuing to hold such court or courts, and no other justice
ofthe supreme court shall be at hand to proceed with the business pending
in such court or courts, it shall be the duty of the clerk of such court or
courts to enter an adjournment for the term. or to any subsequent day in
the

Special term of
circuit or oyer

and terminer,
&c, may be held.
P. L. 1853, p. 285.

same term; and all suits, indictments and proceedings remaining

undisposed of, in such court or courts, shall be continued and stand over
to be tried and disposed of at the next succeeding term of such court or
courts, or at the time to which said adjournment shall be made, without
prejudice, except such indictments as may be triable in the court oi’ quarter
sessions of the peace, and which that court may thereupon proceed to try,
if they think proper so to do, in the same manner as they might have
done if a rule had been ordered by the court of oyer and terminer and
general jail delivery, that the same should be handed down to the court of
quarter sessions.
40. SEC. 23. That the chief justice or any justice of the supreme court
who shall hold any circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer and general
jail delivery in a county, whenever in his opinion the ends ofjustice and
the public interest require it, may in term time of the courts in said county,
order a special term of said courts, or oi‘ either of them, to be held therein
for the trial of any causes or indictments then triable and remaining
untried, which may require to be tried in either of said courts, before the

Jnrors to attend.
Ib.
Notice given.

next regular term thereof; and all suits, indictments, processes, orders,
rules, recognizances and other proceedings, pending in any of such courts,
shall be continued over to such special term, without prejudice to any of
the parties therein, and may then be proceeded in according to law.
41. SEC. 24. That the petit jurors summoned to attend at the regular
term of such courts shall attend and serve at the special courts ; and notice
of such special term shall be published in one or more of the newspapers
printed and circulated in the county, at least once a week, from the date
of the order to the opening of the special term; and in case no newspaper
be printed in the county, that then the said notice shall be published as
aforesaid, in one or more newspapers printed in an adjoining county or
counties, as the court shall direct.

Writs to be
returned.

42. SEO. 25. That the sheriff or other ofilcer of the county in which the
said circuit court is to be held, shall make return to the said court of all

R. s. me, Q 11.

writs and juries, with the panels and other matters relative to the same,
legally arrayed and executed.
Justices ex-oﬂlcio
judges of pleas,
Orphans’ court and
quarter sessions.
P. L. 1855, p. 17.

Justices may
adopt rules of
practice.
B. S. 200, 5 8.

43. SEO. 26. That the justices of the supreme court shall be ex-oﬁicio
judges of the inferior court of common pleas, and orphans’ court, and court
of general quarter sessions of the peace, of the several counties; and the.
justice holding the circuit court in any county, shall be the president
judge of‘ the court of common pleas, and court of general quarter sessions
of the peace, and orphans’ court of said county. (a)
44. SEO. 27. That the justices of the supreme court shall and may
adopt and settle uniform rules of practice in all matters not regulated by law
for the government of said circuit courts, and the same from time to time,

((1) The act oi‘ i855(I‘. L. p. l'i'i.\\‘11iCl]lIJl1k9FlhB{i.lSilC§:S ofthe
supreme court ex-ojﬂcio Judges of the common p ens, orphans‘

court and quarter sessions, is constitutional. Engeman v. ﬂatc.
25 Vr. 247.

COURTS.

1027

alter, repeal and modify as occasion may require; provided, such rules are
not contrary to the provisions of this act, the laws and constitution of this
state, or of the United States.
Supplement.
Approved April 6, 1875.

P- L 1975. P- 54

45. Ssc. 1. '1‘hat the supreme court shall consist of a chiefjustice and <>°"="I""<>n°f

eight associate justices.
"“""’m°°°“"‘
46. SEC. 2. That there shall be created two additional judicial districts A<1<11li<>na1Judi
to be known as the eighth and ninth judicial districts; that the fourth °"“‘“""'°‘°'
judicial district shall be composed of the counties of Middlesex and Mon
mouth; the sixth judicial district shall be composed of the counties of
Bergen and Passaic; the seventh judicial district shall be composed of the
county of Essex; the eighth judicial district shall be composed of the county
of Hudson; and the ninth judicial district shall be composed of the
counties of Union and Ocean.
47. SEC. 3. That after the fourth day of July next, the regular terms of Time“ Oﬂloldll-18
the respective courts mentioned in the act to which this is a supplement, :;';‘3§;;'§""“
shall be held at the times following, and not otherwise. [See Sec. 136,
'
post, for terms of courts.]
48. Sac. 4. That all proceedings in the said several courts shall com- Prweedlnssw

mence and be continued in conformity to the terms and times hereby °°“'°"“."’"°‘°'
established.

49. SI-:0. 5. That the justices of the supreme court shall assign one of A-Sslsﬂmemof
their number to hold the courts in each of the districts embraced in this act. 'l“"1°°°‘

Supplement. .
Approved April 21, 1570.

P. 1.. me, 9- 184

50. SEO. 1. That at least ten days before the commencement of each H°W°°"B"*b1¢@
regular term of the circuit court to be holden in any county of the state, :::L‘£:n:°;§Z:’§t
the sheriff of said county shall make out a list of constables, not ex- cmm_

ceeding ten in number, who shall attend as constables at the said next
term of court in said county, and after making out said list the said sheriﬁ
shall thereupon notify, by mail, each of said constables so selected, that
he has been so selected to attend at said term; and if upon the ﬁrst day
of said term, or any day thereafter, any of said constables so selected shall
for any reason fail to attend at said term, the judges, before the court of
common pleas or a major part of them shall, if the necessities of the busi
ness of the court require it, or the justice of the supreme court holding the
circuit shall so request, direct, by writing under their hand, and ﬁled with
said clerk, that other constables of said county duly elected and qualiﬁed
to act as such, of a number designated by said judges or a major part of
them in said writing, shall serve at said term instead of the constables
originally selected and absent; and no constable of said county, except
those thus selected and summoned, or selected to ﬁll such vacancies, shall

receive any compensation whatever for his attendance as a constable upon
said court or at said term; provided, that in counties containing a population of at least one hundred and ﬁfty thousand persons, it may be lawful
to thus select and summon not exceeding ﬁfteen constables, and in counties
of a greater population one additional constable for each twenty thousand
population may be summoned; and provided further, that if at any time
the said judges or a major part of them shall deem the attendance of an
additional number of constables desirable, or necessary for the proper
transaction of the public business, they may by writing authorize the said
sheriff to summon such additional constables. (a)
51. SEO. 2. That if at any time during said term it shall appear to said
judges or a major part of them, that the attendance of any of said constables
so attending at said term may be dispensed with without detriment to the
(a) The judges of the common pleas, when there are vacancles in the number of constables summoned by the sheriff, or
where, in lheirjudgment, the attendance of more constables is

desirable or necessary for the proper transaction of public

Proviso.

Proviso.

Agar 231,15
l‘;\11I'!tll1geratrt.(<)el111]d
Qﬂﬁfeﬁe“ °“

business, may require the summoning of such constables as
they shall select to attend.
Vr. 328.

Cb: v. Pascale Oommon Pleas, 16

1028

Proviso.

COURTS.
public business of said term, it shall be the duty of the said judges, or a
major part of them, to forthwith discharge from further attendance such
and so many of said constables so attending as shall be deemed proper and
expedient; provided, that such discharge shall not be made if the justice of
the supreme court holding the circuit shall refuse to concur therein.

Supplement.
P. L. I891, p. ‘Z76.
Law judges to
hold county cir
cuit court, when

so requested by
thejusilce of the
supreme court.

Juslice to cause

a rule to that
etfect to be
entered.

Oompensatlon of
law judge.

Approved April 2, 1891.

52. SEC. 1. That any lawjudge of any of the courts of common pleas
in this state is hereby required and empowered to hold any county circuit
court when thereunto requested by the justice of the supreme court within
whose district the said circuit court shall be, and that while exercising such
jurisdiction the said judge of the common pleas shall have and possess all
the powers and authority with which in that respect the said justice of the
supreme court is by the laws of this state invested.
53. SEO. 2. That whenever a justice of the supreme court shall desire to
make the requisition mentioned in the foregoing section, he shall cause a
rule to that effect to be entered in the minutes oi‘ the appropriate circuit
court; and the judge oi‘ the said court of common pleas called in shall, in
addition to his salary and emoluments, be entitled to the sum of twenty
dollars per diem while so sitting in said circuit court, to be paid by the
county to which said latter court appertaius.

An act supplemental to an act entitled “ An act relative to the supreme
and circuit courts,” approved March twenty-seventh, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-four; and also for the appointment of
three judges to hold said circuit courts and to deﬁne their powers.
P. L. 1893, P. 155.
Circuit court
Judges to be ap
pointed by the
governor.
Vacancy ﬁlled.

Approved March 9, 1893.

54. SEO. 1. That there shall be nominated by the governor and ap
pointed by him, by and with the advice and consent oi‘ the senate, three
judges, each of whom shall be empowered to hold, in the absence of a jus
tice of the supreme 'court, the respective circuit courts in every county of
this state; and in like manner there shall be appointed successors to said
judges respectively when said offices or any of them shall become vacant
by death, expiratioh of the oﬂicial term of the incumbents, or otherwise;

Temi of oﬂice.
Bulury.

Powers of suld

that each of said judges shall hold his oﬁice for the term of seven years
from the date of his commission and shall receive an annual salary of
seven thousand ﬁve hundred dollars, payable monthly, in equal install~
ments by thetreasurer of the state.
55.,Sno. 2. That the said judges so to be appointed, and each of them,

iudsea

shall have the same authority, power and jurisdiction, by virtue of their

said oﬁice as is now vested by the common and statute law .in the several
justices of the supreme court by reason of their being judges of said circuit
courts.
Manner of dis
posing of supreme

court issues.

56. SEO. 3. That the issues of the su P reme court
. . when sent down for
trial, may be disposed of by consent of the parties ll] the manner follow
ing, to wit: a jury being waived, the justice of the supreme court may
refer the matter for trial to the judge holding the county circuit court of
the given county, who shall thereupon proceed to try the cause, either with
or without ajury as the said parties may agree- and the result of said
trial having been ’reported to the said justice the sdme shall be received as
conclusive evidence in the trial before him- and the supreme court shall
be authorized to grant new trials in such procedures as in other cases. (a)

Supreme court
may assign circuit
court judges to

hold court.

57. SEO. 4. That the supreme court may from time to time assign and
appoint any of said circuit county court judges to hold such of such circuit
courts as may be deemed expedient.

(a) Rules 85 and 36 of the supreme court apply to supreme
court Issues referred to the circuit court pursuant to this sec
tion. La Valle v.Electric Oullrry cu, 27 Vr. 59. The applica

tion for a rule to show cause for a new trial lu such cases must
be made to the justice of the supreme court holding the circuit.
Form of poazea required. lb.

1029

COURTS.
58. SEO. 5. That if it shall happen that any of said circuit court judges
shall be prevented from attending any of said courts at any time or times,
or from continuing the business therein transacting, the same proceedings,
and the same results shall ensue as now obtain by law in case of a like
default on the part ofa justice of the supreme court.
59. SEO. 6. That each of said judges shall, before he shall enter upon the
duties of his said oﬂice, take and subscribe the following oath: I do
solemnly promise and swear (or aﬂirm) that I shall administer justice
without respect to persons, and faitlifully and impartially perform all the
duties incumbent on me as a judge of the circuit courts of, the counties
of this state according to the best of my ability and understanding, agree
ably to the constitution and laws of the state of New Jersey, so help

Proceedings on
fnllure ofsttend
ance of Judges.

Oath ofjudge.

me God.
A. further supplement to an act respecting circuit courts in the several
counties of this state.
Approved March 27, 1874.

60. SEC. 1. That the stenographers appointed or hereafter to be appointed
in each of the circuit courts of this state, shall, when called upon so to do
by the judge of such circuit, attend the sessions of any court of quarter
sessions

in such

circuit, and perform therein

P. 11.1874, p.113.
Slenographers
when called on
shall attend the
quarter sessions.

like duties to those now

required by law of such stenographers in the said circuit courts.

61. SEO. 2. That the compensation of stenographers now appointed or
hereafter to be appointed in the several courts of this state for attendance
in the said courts, and for transcripts of the proceedings of said courts
when furnished by order of the court, shall be ﬁxed by the circuit judge of
the said court, and paid by the county collector of the county in which the
said court is held, upon the certiﬁcate of the said judge that such service
has been performed by the said stenographer. (a)

62. SEO. 3. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent herewith are

Compensation,
by whom ﬁxed.

Repealer.

hereby repealed.
An act to provide for the printing and publishing of the list of causes
noticed for trial in the circuit courts and courts of common pleas
of the several counties of this state.
Approved April 21, 1876.

63. SEO. 1. That in all the counties of this state, whenever the judge
holding the circuit court therein shall deem it proper and necessary that
the list of causes noticed for trial at any of the regular terms of the said
circuit courts and courts of common pleas shall be printed and published

P. L. 1876, p. 288.
How lists of
causes shall be
printed and
published.

for the use of the said courts, he may order and direct the same to be done

by the clerk of the said courts and prescribe the form in which the same
shall be printed and direct the said clerk to advertise for one week in two
newspapers of ditferent political parties in the county for bids for said work
for one year and give said printing to the lowest bidder; and the expenses
of the printing and publishing thereof shall be paid by the board of chosen
freeholders of the county, upon the certiﬁcate of the said circuit judge that
such printing has been done.

An act to authorize the transfer of suits from the several county cir
cuit courts to the several inferior courts of common pleas.
Approved March 23, 1892.

64. SEO. l. That when any suit is or shall be pending in any circuit
court of any of the counties of the ﬁrst and second classes of this state it
shall be lawful for any justice of the supreme court presiding in that dis
trict, at his discretion, to order the process, pleadings and other papers
pertaining thereto to be delivered to the clerk of the inferior court of com
mon pleas of such county, who is hereby directed to ﬁle the same in his
(a) See Knight v. .F'reeholders Q! Ocean, 19 Vr. 77.

P. L. 1802, p. 224.
Transfer of suits
from clrcult courts
of counties of the
ﬁrst and second
classes to the lu
ferior courts of
common pleas.

1030

COURTS.
oﬂice, and to make an entry thereof in the minutes of said last-named
court; and that thereupon said inferior court of common pleas shall have

authority to hear and decide said suit and to proceed therein, in like man
Proviso.

Compensation of
law judge presid
ing at trial ofsuits
so transferred.

ner as if the same had been originally brought in said court; provided,
nevertheless, that said justice of the supreme court may at any time by his
order remand said suit into the circuit court from which it shall have been
removed ; and thereupon said process, pleadings, minute entries and other
proceedings shall be returned to and ﬁled in said circuit court, and said
suit shall therein be proceeded with according to law. (a)
65. SEO. 2. That every law judge of the inferior court of common pleas
who shall preside at the trial of any of said suits so removed shall be
entitled to receive from the county, for each day so employed, the sum of
twenty dollars.
Supplement.

P. L. 1894, p. 377.
Law judge may
certify case trans
ferred to the Cum
mon pleas to su

preme court.

Proceedings and
practice in such

cases.

Approved May 16, 189-i.

66. Sso. 1. That in any suit that has been transferred or shall hereafter
be transferred from the circuit court to the inferior court of common pleas
by virtue of the act to which this is a supplement, the presiding law judge
of said inferior court oi‘ common pleas may, at his discretion, and upon
such terms as he may think reasonable, direct any case of doubt or dith
culty to be made and stated and certiﬁed by him to be argued at the bar
of the supreme court, which court shall hear the same, and, after opinion
given therein, shall certify the same to the said inferior court of common
pleas, which court shall render judgment thereon in conformity with such
opinion.
6'1. SEC. 2. That in such cases so certiﬁed that the same proceedings
and practice shall be had thereon as is now had in cases certified from the
circuit courts of this state to said supreme court.

An act to provide for the payment of expenses incurred by order of

the supreme court.
P. L. 1895, D. 820.
Payment ofe.v
penses incurred

by order of su
preme court.

Approved March 14, 1695.

68. Ssc. 1. That whenever any item of expense has been incurred by
order of the supreme court in the execution of its duties, the payment of
which is not otherwise provided for by law, the same shall, when so
directed by the order of said court, be paid by the state treasurer, which

order shall be countersigned by the comptroller when attested by the
justice of said court presiding therein at the time said order is made.
III. Prerogative court.

Rev. I79, 574, 776,
789.
Har. 297.

An act respecting the prerogative court, and the power and authority
of the ordinary.

R. S. ‘A03.
Authority oi’ the
ordinary.

Approved April 10, 1846.

69. SEO. 1. That the authority of the ordinary shall extend only to the
granting of probates of wills, letters of administration, letters oi‘ guardian
ship, and to the hearing and ﬁnally determining of all disputes that may
arise thereon. (b)

Proof required
before probate
granted.

~

70. Ssc. 2. That probate of any will shall not be granted by the ordi
nary, until proof be made to his satisfaction that no caveat against proving
such will hath been ﬁled in the oiﬁce of the surrogate of the county where
the testator resided at the time of his death, or that notice hath been given
to all persons concerned of the application to the ordinary of such probate.

(a) Whereia cavvrtt is entered to a will, and the questions in
controversy are certiﬁed into the circuit court, that court can

(0) Original jurisdiction of ordinary in matters of probate of
wills an gmntin letters of administration. Abralunn Omar

not send the case to the common pleas for trial under this act.
Burmted \'. Judgws of Zllomnmtth Plma, 27 Vr. -ii-i. \\'ln~n u case

215.

of which the common pleas would have jurisdiction, if origi
nally instituted there, is brought in the circuit court and sent
down to the common pleas for trial under this act, and is tried

srn's Will, s 1;.-.

h. 408. Will of Isaac Lawrrnce.8 Hal. Ch.
Ohanuberx v. Sumlwrlaml, Hal. Dip. 216, ii. The onlinsry

has no jurisdiction where the title of lands comes in question.
Jfaring v. Van Bzukirk, -t Hal. Ch. 54-5, 548. Nor in matri

in that court without objection, the losing partv cannot, after

monial causes. Jlfcﬂura v. 1P:1'r;:/, 6 C. E. Gr. 21$, per Zabriskie,
C. The proper proceeding is by petition. li'e.b:!1~r’.1 Gaze, 3

judgment. chaliemze the Jurisdiction of the trial court.
Hudson Ry. C0. V. Flanagan, 28 V1‘. ‘J36.

I,-‘r. I'h. 558.
/i(I(m1.¢, 3 C’.

North

G1'wr'/1's Case, 4 Ifal. Ch. 550. See Trimmer v.
(_v'r. 505.

COURTS.

1031

71. SEO. 3. That for the hearing and determination of all causes cogni
zafile before the ordinary, he shall hold a prerogative court at each stated
term oi‘ the court oi’ chancery, and at such other times and at such place
or places as he shall from time to time appoint, when he shall hear and
ﬁnally determine all causes that shall come before him, either directly or
by appeal, from any surrogate or from the orphans’ court of any county.(a)

72. SEO. 4. That the register of the prerogative court shall attend the

Court, when to
be held.

Registers duty.

sitting of the court at the stated terms, to register the decrees and proceed
ings of the court.
73. SEC. 5. That it shall and may be lawful for the ordinary, in any

when justices

case in which he may be interested, or may have been concerned for either

called to advise.

party, or may have given an opinion as attorney, solicitor, or counsel for
either party, or in any other casein which he may deem it expedient, to
call to his assistance one or more of the justices of the supreme court, to
sit and advise with him on the hearing or argument of such case, or of any
motion touching the same, and by and with the advice of such justice or
justices to make and pronounce such order, sentence or decree as shall be
according to law, and the rules and practice oi‘ the prerogative court.
74. Si-‘.0. 6. That the justice or justices so sitting with the ordinary in
the prerogative court, shall be entitled to receive the same compensation as
is allowed by law for sitting with the chancellor in the court of chancery.
75. SEO. 7. That the payment of costs when awarded by the prerogative
court. may be compelled in the same manner as the court of chancery is
authorized to compel payment thereof.
.

76. SEC. 8. That if any person shall neglect or refuse to obeyany citation,
or to perform any sentence or decree of the ordinary or judge of the
prerogative court, it shall and may be lawful to and for such ordinary
and such court to cause such person or persons, by process directed to any
sheriff of any county of this state, to be taken and imprisoned until he
shall obey the said citation, or perform the said sentence or decree; and
every sheriff is hereby directed to cause all such process, to him at any
time directed, to be duly executed, and to conﬁne the person against whom
such process shall be issued, as in execution, until he shall be delivered by
due course of law-, and if any sheriff shall neglect his duty therein, he shall
be answerable to the party aggrieved in such manner as he would be
answerable upon process of the like nature issuing out of the supreme

Justice's lees in
such case.

How payment of
costs compelled.

Power to issue
compulsory pro
cess.

Liability oi’
sheriff.

court.

7'7. Si-:0. 9. That the transcript of any will or testament registered or
- recorded in the prerogative oﬁice, duly certiﬁed by the register of the said
oﬁice to be a true transcript, shall be received in evidence in any court of
this state, and shall be as good and effectual in law as if the books in which
the same are registered or recorded were then and there produced and
proved.

Transcript oi‘
will, evidence.

' {Supplement
Approved February 17, 1869.

78. SEO. 1. That all persons aggrieved by any order or decree of the
prerogative court, may appeal from the same, or any part thereof, to the
court of errors and appeals in the last resort in all causes, which appeal
shall be taken within the same time and prosecuted in the same manner in
all respects as now provided by law for appeals from.the court of chancery. (b)
(a) Appeal lies to orphans’ court in matters astograntingiet
lets of guardianship. Read v. Drake, l G1‘. Ch. 78. Jifatter of
Clrrmml, 10 C. E. Gr. .508. But see 1!-nhrook v. 2l{cCblm, 5 Hal.
383. Or in regard to a guardimrs account. Runkle v. GnL¢:,3
Hat. Ch. 101. Or granting probate of a will. tlmrsenﬂr Will, ii

Gr. Ch. 408. Prrrinz v. Applepau, 1 Ji{c0a1-L. 531. Or on a
decree revoking letters oi‘ administration. Deluny v. Noble, 2
Gr. Ch. 559.

Quiriort v. Hrrpraiuc, 3 C’. E. Gr. 472.

See Mmvu

P. L. 1869, p. 8-i.
Appeal from pre
rogative court to
con rt oi‘ appeals.
l
I"!

J

course, but is not to be taken until after the transcript shall
have been ﬂied. W_|1cIcqlT v. Hutu. 1 Slrw. 429. How evidence
is taken. Read v. Drake. l Gr. Ch. 78. Reeve v. Tbwnxend,
4 Hat. C'h.. Bi. Sag/re v. Sayre, 1 6! E. Gr. 505. After a decision
the case may be continued in the prerogative court, if further
proceedings are necessary.

Runkie v. Gate, 3 Hat. Ch. 101.

Trimnwr v. Adam:.8 (‘. E. Gr. 505. Orlim-n v. Rogers 4 0. E
G1-. 429. The verdict of a jury in awlii ea.:e,certiﬂed by the

v. Ll0l'1‘lJi, l Hm-. 526. Or from an order ﬁxing the amount of

orphans‘ court into the circuit, is not conclusive as to facts; the

an executors commissions. Andm-son v. .Ber1~y, 2 Jl¢-Furl. 232.
Or from a decree refusing to conﬁrm and setting aside a sale.
Cbnovcr v. Walling, 2 .ll[c(Y11't.l67. Or from an order and pro
ceedings in partition. Dtamenl. v. Lore, 2 V1'.220. Or the ap

ordinary can look into the testimony for the purBose ofpassing
upon the propriety of the verdict. Rusiina v. uslinn, 9 Stew.
603. For costs. see Cmisccav, Sec. 105, note (c), and Per-rim v.
Appimate, 1 MrCh1‘t. 532.
lb) This not is COi’lBIlli.:I|()lIlIl8.ll.l ﬁlarru v. rlg(l7ldI}‘1.‘6l;?1".! Ema, 6
C.l~.‘.G1'.-12-i. An appea w
e omano ero t eprerogw
rive court determining the amount of commissions allowed to
executors. administrators and trustees under a will. Pomeroy

pointment of a trustee. Bruxli v. Young, 4 Dul4',h. 237. Who
Inn)‘ appeal. Rm'bnck V. Van Blarmm, 5 C. E. Gr. 461. iS‘u.'ac!c
hamtr v. Kline, i0 C. E’. Gr. 503. Ralrtgh v. Rogers. 10 C’. E. Gr.
608. When the appeal must be taken. Claw)»: v. Halmu, 3 G1‘.

Ch. 136. Hillycr v. St-ItPru:k, 2 li!c(.‘ar¢.399. The order of the
prerogative court to answer a petition oi‘ appeal is an order of

V. Jllll-!, 10 Stew. 578.

1032

COURTS.

Supplement.
P. L. 1891, p. 5l1.
Register of the
prerogative court
to receive the
same fees fur
recording wills,
&c., as surrogates.

Proviso.

Repeaier.

Approved April 18. lﬂl.

79. Sec. l. That it shall be the duty of the register of the prerogative
court to record all wills, proofs, probate,letters testamentary issued thereon
and inventories hereafter proven, and in cases now pending in the pre
rogative court or before the ordinary, and all accounts of executors,
administrators, trustees and guardians, letters of guardianship and letters
of administration hereafter issued, granted or allowed by the ordinary,
and all orders, decrees and other papers of a similar nature which are now
required by law to be recorded in the surrogates’ oﬂices of the respective
counties; and for all official services as register of the prerogative court he
shall be entitled to charge and receive the same fees as are now allowed by
law to the surrogates of the several counties of this state for like services;
provided, that all expenses incurred in carrying out the provisions of this
act shall be paid by the register out of the fees so collected. (a)
80. SEO. 2. That this act shall take effect immediately, and all acts and
parts of acts inconsistent herewith, he and the same are hereby repealed.

Supplement.
Approved March 10, 1898.

P. L. 1893, p. 180.
Rezister to re
ceive same oom
mimions on de
posits as clerk
in chancery.
Repeaier.

81.'Sr:c. 1. That the register of the prerogative court shall he entitled
to charge and receive on all monies and securities that are now or may be
hereafter deposited with him under any law of this state or the rules of the
prerogative court, the same commissions as are no,w allowed by law to the
clerk in chancery for commissions on deposits.

82. Sac. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act
be and the same are hereby repealed, and this act shall take effect imme
diately.
An act to facilitate proceedings in the prerogative court.
Approved February ll, 1688.

P. L. 1888, p. 22.
Vice ordinary or
surrogate-general
appointed by
ordinary.

Ordinary may
refer to him any
cause or matter
pending.

Vice ordinary to
take and hear
evidence in said
cause, &c.

Authorized to
employ sten

ographer.

33. SEO. 1. That there shall be a vice ordinary or vice surrogate-general,
who shall be a counselor-at-law of at least ten years’ standing, who shall
be appointed by the ordinary or surrogate-general from among the vice
ehancellors of the court of chancery,and commissioned by the governor
under the great seal of the state, and who shall continue in oiﬁce during
his term of office as vice chancellor.
84. SEC. 2. That the ordinary or surrogate-general may refer to such
oﬁicer any cause or other matter which at any time may be pending in the
prerogative court, to hear the same for the ordinary or surrogate-general,
and report thereon to him and advise what order or decree should be made
therein; and any matter or cause in which the ordinary or surrogate
general is interested, may be so referred.
85. SEC. 3. That when any cause or matter shall be so referred to such
oiiicer it shall be lawful for him to take and hear the evidence ofany or all
witnesses in said cause or matter, orally, in the same manner as the evi
dence is now taken and heard in'the several courts of law in this state on
trials before a jury; and if a report of the evidence so taken before him
shall become necessary in the progress of said cause, for use on appeal
from the order or decree of the ordinary or surrogate-general, then such
oﬂieer shall settle and sign such report.

86. S1-:0. 4. That it shall be lawful for such vice ordinary or vice surro
gate-general to employ a competent stenographic reporter, for the same
purposes that vice chancellors are now authorized by law to employ such
reporters, and that such stenographic reporters shall be compensated in the
same manner and alter the same rates that such stenographers are com
pensated for services rendered to vice chancellors.

87. SEO. 5. [Repealed by Sec. 88,p0st.]
(0) Heath’: Cure, 7 Dick. B07.

COURTS.

1033

Supplement.
Approved January 81, 1803.

88. Sec. l. That the ﬁfth section of an act entitled “ An act to facilitate
proceedings in the prerogative court,” approved February eleventh, one
thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight, which ﬁfth section reads as
follows [see P. L. 1888, p. 22], be and the same is hereby repealed.

P. L. 1893, p. 13.
Repenler.

IV. County courts (1)
An act to ascertain the times and places of holding certain courts.
Revision—Approved April 18, 1846.

R.S.253.

[Secs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 repealed by P. L. 1876, p. 28.]
89. SEO. 6. That it shall be lawful for the court of common pleas, the
court of general quarter sessions of the peace, and the orphans’ court in
and for the several counties of this state, to adjourn over for any day in
term to any subsequent day in the same term, whenever the convenience
of the public and oi’ the said courts respectively, shall require such adjourn
ment; and in case of such adjournment, all suits, indietments,proeess,
orders, rules, recognizances and other proceedings pending in such court,
shall he continued to the time-to which such adjournment shall be made,
without prejudice to any of the pa1'ties therein, and may then be proceeded
in according to law, in the same manner as if such court had been
adjourned from day to day.
90. SEO. 7. That the courts of common pleas for the several counties of
this state, are hereby authorized, at their stated terms, to order and appoint
special terms of the said court, to be holden at such time in the vacation

Power ofcourt of
common pleas,
&c., to adjourn
over to subse
quent day in
term.
R. S. 753, i 6.

between the stated terms of said court, as they in their discretion shall

1b., Q 7.

Pleas may ap
point special
terms, try ap
peals, ac.

think ﬁt; and, at such special terms, to hear, try and determine all appeals
from the courts for the trial of small causes depending in said court, in
which no jury shall be demanded or required; and also at such special
term, to hear and determine all such arguments upon matters of law,
arising in causes depending in said court, as shall by the consent of parties,
be set down for hearing at such special term; provided, a.lwa_r/s, that at
such special term, the hearing of appeals shall have preference of argu
ment upon matters of law. (a)

An act to re-organize the courts of law.
Approved February 9, 1855.

P. L. 1855, p. 17.

[Secs. l, 2, 3 and 4 transferred to “ An act relative to the supreme and
circuit courts” [Revision], approved March 27th, 1874. See Sees. 18, 25,
26 and 43, ante. Sec. 6 repealed by P. L. 1876, p. 28. See Sec. 137, p0st.]

91. SEO. 5. That after the fourth day of July' next [I855], there shall
be no more than three judges of the inferior court of common pleas in each
county, exclusive of the justice of the. supreme court; and any two of
the said judges may hold the orphans’ court and court of general quarter
sessions of the peace ; (2) provided, that the judges of said court that may
be in ofﬁce on the ﬁrst day of April next shall continue until their terms

of office shall expire.

Number ofjudges
of the court of
common pleas.

[See Sec. 108, post.]

(a) For original ordinance creating common pleas, seel Hal.,
Dwhl V. Page, 2 Gr. Ch. 148. Den, Vandervcer v. Gaston, 4 Z10.
818. Youna v. Rrlthbonz, 1 C’. E. Gr. 21.4. Haulrickson v. Nor

rules and practice, cannot he reviewed on ccrtwrari. ﬁateg
Nrwell v. Bassat, 4 Vr. Z6. But they cannot by adopting rules
Hincliuy v. Mzichim, 3 G1". 476. lien Eyck v.
Fizrlee, 1 Har. 348. Nor on the trial oi’ an appeal can they seal
a bill of exceptions. Clark v. Fulse, Pen. ‘Z63. ﬁloorr v. Hanv

crou, 4 C’. E. Gr. 411. See Dc-n v. Zelln-s, 2 Hal. 153. But they
cannot discharge from jail a. prisoner conﬁned under the pro
cess of another court. Sin/ker v. Rm, 6 Hat. 3i9. See Englizh
v. Brmham, 3 G1-.431. Matters resting in discretion, or on its

itum. 4 Zab. 532. Roaton v. Il{or1‘i.r, l Dutch. 173. Whether they
can do so in an insolvent case, see Davis v. Hrndrtckson, 3 Gr.
481. Vrm lV(lp(]mwr' v. (be, 1 Dutch. 197. They may send up s
stale ofthe ease. Curtis v. Hail, 1 South. "361(u).

Appendix, p.

The common plena has a common-law Juris

diction. and its Judgments cannot be questioned collaterally.

alter the laws.

l) See title Cann.\r/in PnocEnn1uc,po.:t,sub-title Churn, and note (1), giving the special acis to faciiitstejudiciai proceedings in
dl erent counties of the stale.
(2) See Cnmnuin Paocz-znumz, sub-title own, and notes.

1034

COURTS.

Supplement.
Approved March 9, 1877.

P. L. 1877, p. 218.

92. Sac. l. [Amended by Sec. 95, posh]
Clerk of the
county to be clerk

of special quarier
sessions court.

93. SEO. 2. That the clerk of said county shall be the clerk of said court
hereby provided for, and shall issue all processes, whether of capias, sub
poena or execution, which shall be required in carrying out this act, which
processes shall be delivered to the sheriff of said county, and shall bc by

Sheriff to be the
ofﬁcer oi’ the
court.

Judge to deter
mine rules, &c.,

in absence of the
justice of supreme
court.

him served and returned under the same regulations and with the same
compensation as heretofore ; and the said sheriﬂ' shall be the otﬁcer of said
court and exercise the same direction and supervision of all constables and
subordinate oﬂicers attending said court, and in all other things pertaining
to the ofﬁcc, as heretofore.
94. SEO. 3. That in all matters within the jurisdiction of the said several
courts, relating to the practice and settlement of legal rules and questions,
the said judge shall, in the absence of the justice of the supreme court,
have exclusive power and authority to determine such rules, questions and
practice.
Supplement.

P. L. 1878, p. 872.

Proceedings for
trinl in cases
when the person

charged waives
an indictment
and trial by Jury.

Approved April 5, 1878.

95. SEO. 1. That the ﬁrst section of the supplement to said act, which
supplement was approved March ninth, eighteen hundred and seventy
seven, and which now reads as follows [see I’. L. 1877, p. 218], be
amended as follows :
[That whenever in any county in this state in which a counselor-at-law,
of not less than ﬁve years of active practice, shall have been appointed one
of the judges of the court of common pleas, orphans’ court, and court of
general quarter sessions of the peace for said county, and in which there
shall be no law judge appointed as such, or wherever in any county there
now is or there hereafter may be appointed a law judge, any person shall
be charged, upon oath, before any justice of the peace or police justice, or
any other officer authorized by law to hear said charge in said county, with
any oifcnsc now triable at law before the court of general quarter sessions
of the peace of said county, and such person shall, in writing, signed by
him or her, addressed to the prosecutor of the pleas of said county, waive
an indictment and trial by jury, and request to be tried immediately, it
shall be the duty of the said prosecutor to apply to said judge, being such
counselor-at-law, or law judge, as the case may be, for the immediate trial

Judge to call a
court of special

quarter sessions
oi’ the peace.

Prosecutor to
attend trial in
person or by
deputy.

Costs, how taxed
and paid.

of such person; and said judge, unless he shall think the public interests
will be beneﬁted by denying such request, shall call a court of special
quarter sessions of the peace, to be composed of himself and at least one
other of the members of said court, which court is hereby empowered and
required to try such person with all due speed, having regard to all the
circumstances of the case, the public beneﬁt, and the possibility of obtain
ing necessary witnesses and to determine and adjudge the guilt or inno
ccnce of the person charged; and if such person he acquitted by said court
he or she shall forthwith be discharged ; if he or she shall plead guilty, or
be convicted, said court shall thereupon forthwith render and record such
judgment of imprisonment or ﬁne, or both, as shall be authorized by law
in case such person shall be duly indicted and convicted; and it shall be the
duty oi‘ said prosecutor to attend on such trial in person or by deputy, and
prefer to said court an allegation, in writing, alleging the time, place and
nature of the offense with which such person is charged, to which such
person shall forthwith plead; and the proceedings for bringing such person
to trial before said court. the accusation, plea, trial and sentence shall be in
conformity with the law and practice heretofore, except so far as the same
is altered by this act; and the costs of all proceedings in said court under
this act shall be taxed and paid in the same manner as costs of proceedings
upon indictments found in the court of oyer and terminer and general jail
delivery of said county are now taxed and paid, but not including any
costs of indictment except the fees of the prosecutor of the pleas, which
shall be the same.]

COURTS.

1035

Supplement.
Approved March 14, 1579.

96. SEO. 1. That it shall be lawful for the lawjudge in any county, acting
under the provisions of the act to which this is a supplement, to receive
any plea oi’ such person as may come before him charged with any offense
cognizable in such court, without calling in any lay judge orjudges to act
in the matter if such law judge shall see ﬁt so to do.

P. L. 1679, p. M8.
Law judge may

accept plea with
out lay judge.

An act in relation to lay judges.
Approved March 29, 1878.

WHEREAS, By the revised statutes approved April seventeenth, eighteen
hundred and forty-six [see Rev. p. 486, Sec. 1], it requires three or more
of the judges of the inferior court oi‘ common pleas in the several counties
of this state to grant licenses to persons to keep inns or taverns, and as the
law only provides for three of said judges for each county; thereforee,

97. S1-:0. 1. That any two of the judges of the inferior court of common
pleas shall be a majority of said three judges sitting as a court, and such
majority shall have authority to grant licenses or any other application
that may lawfully come before said court.
98. SEO. 2. That all acts or parts ofacts inconsistent with the provisions
of this act, except special acts authorizing the legal voters of any township
in this state to vote on the question of license or no license, be and the
same is hereby repealed.

P. L. 1878, p. 214.
Preamble.

Licenses, &'.c., may
be granted by two
judges of common
pleas.

B-epealer.

An act concerning the number of lay judges of the inferior court of
common pleas in the several counties of this state.
Approved April 5, 1878.

99. SEC. 1. That hereafter the number of lay judges of the inferior court
of common pleas shall consist oi‘ two in those counties having a law judge,
and of three in all other counties; provided, this act shall not apply to
counties having a population of more than ﬁfty thousand inhabitants
according to the last census.

P. L. ms, p. B15.
Number oi’ lay
judges in common
pleas courts.

Proviso.

A further act in relation to the number of lay judges of the inferior
courts of common pleas in the several counties in this state.
Approved March ii, 1880.

-100. SEO. 1. That no further appointments oi‘ lay judges of the inferior
courts of common pleas in the respective counties of this state shall be
made until the number of such judges shall be reduced to two in counties
having a law judge, and three in all other counties; and thereafter there
shall he but two lay judges of such court in counties having a law judge,
and not more than three lay judges in all other counties.

101. SEC. 2. That any action of said court requiring the concurrence of
three judges, shall be valid and _eﬂ'ectual when concurred in by a majority
of thejudges oi‘ such court.

P. L. 1860, p. 240.
No appointment
of layjudges to
be made until
number ls re
duced.

Action of court,
when valid.

An act to provide for holding the court of special quarter sessions,
in counties where the same now may be held, by a less number
of judges, in certain cases.
Approved April 5, 1876.

102. SEC. 1. That whenever, by reason of a vacancy in the oﬂice ofa lay
judge of the court of common pleas in any county wherein a court oi‘ spe
cial quarter sessions may now be held, there shall be but one Lay judge in
said county. the court oi‘ special quarter sessions may be held by the law
or presiding judge, together with such lay judge. until such vacancy can be
ﬁlled; prov/,'<Ied, that in such case, if said court, in the trial of any person
charged with crime, shall disagree as to any question of fact arising therein,

P. L. 1878. p. 851.
Quarter sessions
court may be held
by the presiding
judge and one lay
judge, in certain
cases.
Proviso.

1036

COURTS.
such disagreement shall not operate to acquit or discharge the prisoner,
who shall be held, and either tried again upon the allegation against him,
or upon any indictment found against him by the grand jury.
An act relating to the powers and duties of law or president judges of
the courts of common pleas.

P, 1, 1553, p.

Lawjudge may

Approved March 2, 1883.

“b”“°°'
51°k'ms'
&c__mco“m°,.

103. Sac. 1. That the law or president judge of the inferior court of com
mon pleas in and for any county of this state may, at the request of the
1.aw 01- l)l8Sl(
' '1 en t ju
' d ge of th e inferior c 0 urt of common p leas in and for

any county,

any other county of this state, preside during the absence or sickness or

preside durlng

other inability of the judge making the request aforesaid, in the courts
or in any of them wherein thejudge making such request was specially
appointed to preside.
May preside

durlng absence,

&c_'o,,us,,ce of
supreme court.

164. SEO.. 2. That the law or president. judge
of the inferior
court .of com
‘—
.
.
.
mon pleas in and for any-county of this state, may preside in the inferior
court of common pleas, orphans’ court and court of general quarter sessions
of the peace in and for any other county of this state not having a law or
president judge specially appointed therefore, during the absence, sickness
or other inability of the justice ofthe supreme court assigned to the judicial
district in which such county not having a law or president judge specially
appointed therefore is situated, if he shall have been thereto requested by
the justice aforesaid.

R@‘1"°*" *°b*=1='
wm"‘g'

105. SEC. 3. That the requests mentioned in the ﬁrst and second sections
of this act shall be in writing; and it shall be the duty of the law or presi

T°b*=ﬂ|°~i "1

dent judge to whom such request as aforesaid shall have been made, before
presiding in the courts of any county in this state other than that for which
he was specially appointed, to ﬁle the request aforesaid in the ofﬁce of the

212°: °'°°“'""
'
'
fmwlluﬂ

clerk of the county in the courts of which he shall have been so as afore
said requested to preside.
106. SEO. 4. That when the law or president judge of the inferior court
of common pleas in and for any county of this state shall so preside and
sit for the law or presidentjudge of the inferior court of common pleas in
and for any other county oi‘ this state, or for a justice of the supreme
court, all proceedings and acts had and done before him and in the courts
in which he shall so preside by request, shall be of the same validity, force
and effect as though the judge or justice who made the request aforesaid
were himself present and presiding.
An act respecting judges of the court of common pleas.

P- 11- 133-5. P. 75.

Approved March 10, 1885.

-T"5“°°°::l"“i) gﬁazdjidge

'1 107. SEO. 1. That nojustice of the pence shall be hereafter appointed a
judge of the inferior court of common pleas, and the appointment of any

cQmmQup]9a_§_

justice of the peace to be such judge and his qualiﬁcation as such shall
vacate his office of justice of the peace.
An act relative to the court of common pleas, the orphans’ court and

the court of general quarter sessions of the peace in the several
counties of this state.
P- L- 1337. P- 133Twoludsesof
common pleas
may lioldpleas,
orphans’ court

,,,,,m,,.,|,,,,,_

Approved April 4, 1887.

108. SEO. 1. That any two of the judges of the inferior court of coiii
*5
mon pleas in each coiintv of this state may hold the court of common
"

pleas, the orphans’ court and the court of general quarter sessions of the

11;-ﬁagggshgnyﬁﬁ peace; provided, that in those counties having a law judge as president
he member or
judge such judge shall be present as a member of said court. (a)

;‘:e“p';"ﬂer

109. SEC. 2. That all acts or parts of acts, whether general, special or
'

local, inconsistent with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed, and
that this act shall be a public act and take effect immediately.

(0) Ajusiics of the supreme court and anyone of thejudges
of common pleas may lawfully hold the quarter sessions in

counties where there ls a law Judge of the common pleas.
Enpeman v. State, 25 Vr. 247.

1037

COURTS.

An act relative to the court of common pleas, the orphans‘ court, and
the court of general quarter sessions of the peace, in the several

counties of this state.
Approved February 15, 1888.

110. Sac. 1. That in case of absence, sickness or other inability or
vacancy in the oilice of the law or president judge of any county in this
state, to sit or perform the duties of his oﬁice, it shall be lawful for the

P. L. 1388, p. 64.
Designation of

judge to act in
absence or vu
cancy in oﬁice

chief justice or any associate justice of the supreme court, if he shall be
unable to perform the duties himself, which he is hereby authorized and
required to do, to designate and request the law or president judge of any
other county to preside in the place and stead of any such law or president
judge thus absent, sick or unable to sit and preside in the courts to which
he was especially appointed, which said law or president judge so desig
nated and requested shall have all the power and perform all the duties of
any such law or president judge thus absent, sick or unable to attend to
the duties of his ofﬁce, upon ﬁling such designation and request in the
oﬁice of the clerk of the county in the courts of which he shall have been
requested so as aforesaid to preside. (a)

oflaw or presi
dent Judge 0!
any county.

An act authorizing the presiding judges of the court of oyer and
terminer, the court of special sessions and the court of general

quarkr sessions of the peace, in counties of the second class, to
appoint an interpreter to said courts, and ﬁxing the salary of the

same.
Approved May 3, 1889.

P. L. 1889, p. 329.

111. S1-:0. 1. That the presiding judges of the court of oyer and terminer,
court of general quarter sessions of the peace, the courts of special sessions,
be and are hereby empowered to appoint an interpreter to attend any of
the above-named courts when said judges may deem it necessary to employ
-a constant attendant in the nature of an interpreter, whose duty shall be to
interpret in all the foreign languages, either in person, when that may be
possible by said interpreter understanding said foreign language, or in case
said foreign language be not understood by said court interpreter so chosen,
then said court interpreter shall, out of the salary that he may receive
under the provisions of this act, furnish to said courts a competent inter
preter in the said foreign language not understood by said court interpreter.

Presiding judges
empowered to
appoint an in

112. S130. 2. That said court interpreter shall be in constant attendance

Inierpreter to be
in constant at
tendance upon
couris.

upon said courts at general and special sessions, and may be called upon
at all times at chambers, and shall respond to all calls from said judges at
all times and all places within the jurisdiction of said judges, not beyond
the bounds of the county, in assisting said courts in the interpretation of
foreign languages.
113. SEC. 3. That said interpreter shall receive as compensation for such
service an annual salary of not less than four hundred dollars and not more
than six hundred dollars, to be ﬁxed by the judges of said courts, said
salary to be paid out of the county funds by the collector in quarterly pay
ments, upon certificate being prcsentcd to him, signed by the judges of

terpreler.

Compensation of
interpreter and
how paid.

said courts.
An act relative to the court of common pleas, the orphans‘ court and

the court of general quarter sessions of the peace in the several
counties of this state.
I

Approved June 13, 1890.

114. SEO. 1. That if the president judge of any court of common pleas,
orphans’ court or court of general quarter sessions of the peace of any county
of this state, by which any judgment, order or decree has been or shall be
rendered, made or pronounced, or by which an _\' matter or cause has been or
(cs) This act provides only for ﬁlling the position of ujutlge

who is temporarily absent by reason of sickness or other like
disability, and not to an oﬁice vacated by the death of the in
cumbent. Bills v. Kuhl, 22 i'r.207. Absence in this act means

P. L. 1390, p. 454.
Successor to presi
dent judge of oom
mon pleas and one
otherjudge to sign
judgments, &c.,

unsigned.

non-presence in the courts. When the law Judge is temporarily
resumed to be away by reason of some ina
bility to attend an is absent in the statutory sense. Engeman

away, he must be

v. s1<m,z5 Vr. £51.

1038

COURTS.
shall be heard and determined, or in which any proceeding or proceedings
have been or shall be taken and determined, has died or shall die, or has
gone out of oﬂlce or shall go out of oﬁice, and some other person has been
or shall be appointed president judge, before the judgment, order or decree
therein has been or shall have been signed, then it shall be the duty of
his successor in office, or the president judge for the time being, together
with at least one of the other judges of the said court, to sign such judg
ment, order or decree, and all judgments, orders and decrees so signed
shall be as good and eﬂectual in law, to all intents and purposes, as if the

same had been duly signed by the judges of the said court when such
judgment, order or decree was rendered, made or pronounced.
An act to facilitate judicial proceedings in counties of the second
class. (1)
P. L. 1894, p. 173.
Courts of common
pleas, oyer and
terminer, &,c., in
counties ofsecond
class, how consti
ﬁlled.

Appoln lment of
law judge.

Persons charged
with otfense tri
able in quarter
sessions may

waive indictment
and trial by Jury.
Law judge may

call court of
special sessions.

Approved May 1, 1394.

115. S1-:0. 1. That the courts of common pleas, oyer and terminer and
general jail delivery, general quarter sessions of the peace and orphans’
courts, in and for the several counties of this state of the second class,

shall hereafter consist of one law judge and two lay judges in addition to
thejustices ofthe supreme court holding the circuit for said county, and
the said law judge shall be :1 counselor-at-law of this state of at least ﬁve
years’ standing, and in the absence of thejustice of the siilareniqcoiirt he
shall be the president judge of said courts of common pleas, oyer and
terminer and general jail delivery, general quarter sessions of the peace
and orphans’ courts, and shall have in all matters within the jurisdiction
of the said several courts the exclusive power and authority to settle and
determine all legal questions and matters of practice.

116. SEC. 2. That whenever any person shall be charged upon oath
before any officer authorized to hear the same in any of said counties,
with any offense now triable by law before the court of general quarter
sessions of the peace, and such person shall, in writing, signed by him or
her, addressed to the prosecutor of the-pleas, waive indictment and trial
by jury, and request to be tried immediately, it shall be the duty of said
prosecutor, unless he shall think the public interest will be beneﬁted by
denying said request, to apply to said law judge for the immediate trial
of said person, and the said law judge shall thereupon in his discretion
call a court of special sessions, to be composed of himself and at least one

other judge of said county, which court is hereby empowered and required
to try such person with all due speed, having due regard to the circum
stances of the case, the public interest and the possibility of obtaining
necessary witnesses to determine the guilt or innocence of the person
charged; if such a person be acquitted by the said court, he or she shall
be forthwith discharged; if he or she shall plead guilty or be convicted,
said court shall thereupon forthwith render and record such judgment of
imprisonment or ﬁne, or both,as shall be authorized by the law, in case
Trial .

such person had been duly indicted and convicted; and it shall be the
duty of said prosecutor ‘(in person or by deputy) to attend upon said trial,
prefer to said court an allegation in writing alleging the time and place
and nature of the otfense with which such person is charged, and to which
said person shall forthwith plead, and the proceedings for bringing such
person for trial before such court, the accusation, place, trial and sentence

Costs, how taxed.

Proviso.

shall be in conformity with the law and practice heretofore, except as the
same are altered by this act, and the cost of all proceedings in said court
under this act shall be taxed and paid in the same manner as costs of
proceedings and indictments found in courts of oyer and terminer and
general jail delivery of said county are now taxed and paid ; provided, that
hereafter no person charged with larceny shall be tried otherwise than
before said court of special sessions hereby provided for, or on regular
indictment, according to the usual course of proceedings at law.

(1) See title Cn.m1.\'.\L PR(>(‘EDl‘RE, post, sub-title (hurls, and note (1), giving the special mots passed to facilitate criminal pro
ceedings in different counties of the slate.

COURTS.

1039

117. Sac. 3. That the respective clerks of said counties shall be the
clerks of said courts of special sessions and shall issue all process, whether

of capias, subpmna or execution, which shall be required in carrying out

Clerk oi’ county
shall be clerk of
the court, issue
process, &c.

the provisions of this act, which process shall be delivered to the respective

‘sheriffs of the said counties, and shall be by them served and returned
under the same regulations and penalties, and with the same compensation

as heretofore; and the said sheriffs shall be the officers of said courts, and
exercise the same supervision and direction of all constables and subordi

Sheriffshali be
oﬁicer of the
court.

nate officers attending said courts, and in all things pertaining to the oﬂlce,
as heretofore.

118. SEC. 4. That said law judges shall each receive such compensation
and salary as is now provided by law, payable in monthly payments by
the respective county collectors of said counties, but shall'1'eceive no share
of the fees which are divided among or paid to the judges of the court of
common pleas or orphans’ court.

119. S1-1c. 5. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro

Compensation
of judges.

Repeuier.

visions of this act be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act

shall be deemed a public act and take effect immediately; provided, how
ever, that nothing herein shall operate to repeal or modify any of the acts
whereby law judges have been heretofore provided for in any of the
counties of this state.

Proviso.

An act respecting the appointment of sergeant-at-arms in the court
of common pleas, orphans‘ court and court of general quarter ses
sions of the peace.
Approved March 31, 1887.

P. L. 1887, p. 96.

120. Si-IC. 1. [Amended by Sec. 122,p0st.]
121. S1-:0. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are
hereby repealed, and that this act shall take effect immediately.

Repealer.

Supplement.
Approved Mm-ch19, 1889.

P. L. was, p. s7.

122. SEC. 1. That section one of an act entitled “ An act respecting the
appointment of sergeant-at-arms in the court of common pleas, orphans’
court and court of general quarter sessions of the peace,” approved March
thirty-ﬁrst, anno domini one thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven,
which is as follows [see P. L. 1887, p. 96], be and the same is hereby
amended so as to read as follows :
[That in each county of this state having within its territorial limits a
population exceeding one hundred and ﬁfty thousand inhabitants, the
judges of the court of common pleas of said county be and they are hereby
authorized to appoint a suitable person as sergeant-at-arms, to hold his
oﬁice during the pleasure of said judges, whose duty it shall be to attend
said courts during the several terms thereof, for which service he shall
receive nine hundred dollars per annum, to be paid monthly, by the county
collector of said county, on the certiﬁcate of the presiding judge of said
court; pr0v'i(le¢I, that no more than one sergeant-at-arms shall be appointed
by the said judges in each of such counties] [See Secs. 126 and 127, post]

123. SEO. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are

In counties having
population ex
ceeding 150,000 ,

judges of common
pleas authorized
to appoint ser

geant-at-arms.

Bepealer.

hereby repealed, and that this act shall take effect immediately.

An act in relation to the appointment of sergeant-at-arms and criers
to the several courts of the counties and ﬁxing the salaries for

same.
Approved April 7, 1890.

124. SEO. 1. [Amended by Sec. 126,p0st.]
125. SEO. 2. That all acts and parts of acts, general, special or local,
inconsistent with the provisions of this act, be and the same are hereby

repealed, and this act shall take eifect immediately.

P. L. 1890, p. 161

Repeaier.

COURTS.

1040

Amendatory act.
Approved February 21, 1893.

P. L. 1893,11. 76.

126. SEO. l. That section one of the above-entitled act be and the same
Supreme court
Justice in districts
comprising coun

ties of ﬁrst class
authorized to ap
point sergeant-ab
arms, also crier of
circuit. court.

Annual salary.

Paid monthly hy

county collector
u n certiﬁcate
o county clerk.
Supreme con rt

justice may fix
per diam allow

ance in lieu of
annual salary.

How paid.

is hereby amended to read as follows:
[That the justice of the supreme court to whom a judicial district has
been or may be assigned, and which judicial district comprises counties of
the ﬁrst class, is authorized to appoint in their respective judicial district a
suitable person as sergeant-at-arms and also a suitable person as erier of the
circuit court of said judicial district, to hold oﬁice during the pleasure of
said justice, whose duties it shall be to attend daily upon the said courts in
the county wherein appointed, during the several [terms] thereof, for which
services the said sergeant-at-arms and said crier, in all counties of the ﬁrst
class having a population within their territorial limits exceeding one hun
dred and ﬁfty thousand inhabitants, shall each receive and be paid an
annual compensation or salary of nine hundred dollars in lieu of any per
diem compensation, such annual compensation or salary to be paid
monthly by the county collector upon the certiﬁcate of the county clerk of
such county; provided, however, that whenever it shall seem to be proper
and advisable, under all the circumstances, to do so, the said justice of
the supreme court may and hereby is authorized to order and ﬁx, in lieu
of the annual compensation herein provided for, for said sergeant-at-arms,
such per diem allowance to him, not exceeding ﬁve dollars per day, as
shall appear to said justice in the exercise .of his discretion to be fair and
reasonable to allow, but said per diem allowance shall be made and taken
in lieu of all fees, perquisites and allowances whatever; same to be paid
on certiﬁcate made as aforesaid, after a claim for the service rendered or
claimed to be rendered by the claimant, veriﬁed by his oath, shall have
been presented to such clerk.]
An

act in relation to the appointment of sergeant-at-arms to the
several courts of the counties, and ﬁxing the salaries for the same
‘

P. L. 1890, P. 409.
Justice of supreme

court in district
comprising coun
ties with popula
tion between 70,

Approved June 3, 1890.

127. SEO. 1. That the justice of the supreme court to whom a judicial
district has been or may be assigned is authorized to appoint a suitable
person as sergeant-at-arms of the courts within the county having a popu

000 and 150,000
may appoint.

sergeant-at-arms.

Duty.
Repeal er.

lation within their territorial limits exceeding seventy thousand and under
one hundred and ﬁfty thousand inhabitants, who shall receive and be paid
an annual compensation or salary of nine .hundred dollars in lieu of any
per diem compensation, such annual compensation or salary to be paid
monthly by the county collector upon the certiﬁcate of the county clerk of
such county, said sergeant-at-arms to hold office during the pleasure of said
justice, whose duty it shall be to attend daily upon the said courts in the
county wherein appointed during the several terms thereof.

128. SI-:0. 2. That all acts and parts of acts, general, special or local,
inconsistent with the provisions of this act, be and the same are:hercby
repealed, and this act shall take effect immediately.

An act to provide
menced in the
in the court of
sessions of the
P. L. 1891, p. 372.

Approved April 4,1891.

Euiployment ofn.

Btenographer in
the court 0i'corn- .

mon pleas nnrl

for the employment of a stenographer in suits com
court of common pleas, and in trials of indictments
oyer and terminer and the court of general quarter
peace in the several counties of this state.

'

quarter sessions,
when authorized.

129. Sac. 1. That the presiding judge of the court of common pleas, of
oyer and terminer and general quarter sessions of the peace, in and for the

several counties of this state, shall upon request of an attorney-at-law em
ployed in any suit originally begun in said court of common pleas, or the
prosecutor of the pleas or the attorney of any defendant in any indictment
in the said court of oyer and terminer and quarter sessions of the peace,
call upon the stenographer of the circuit court to attend either in person or

COURTS.

1041

by proxy, whose duty it shall be to attend upon any such trial in said
court of common pleas, court 01' oyer and terminer or said general quarter
sessions of the peace, and exactly and truly take notes and record verbatim
all the evidence and proceedings of such trials, except the arguments of
counsel, and, when requested, to make and furnish true reports thereof to
the judge and to each party in said cause ; provided, such request be made Provlso.
to said judge and ﬁled with the clerk of such court at least three days pre- _
vious to the day ﬁxed for the trial of such suit or indictment.
130. SEO. 2. That the compensation of such stenographer shall not Compensation of
exceed ten dollars per day, which sum, in cases originally commenced in sienographer.
the court of common pleas shall he paid by the board of chosen freeholdcrs
of the county wherein he is employed, upon the certilicate of the presiding
judge, and in the trial of indictments said sum shall be deposited by the
defendant with the clerk of the court of common pleas at the time of ﬁling
his request for a stenographer, and in the event of the conviction of such
defendant said sum shall be paid by the clerk to the stenographer; but
upon the acquittal of said defendant said sum shall be returned by the
clerk to said defendant, and said fee shall be paid to such stenographers
by the board of chosen freeholdcrs of the county wherein he is employed
upon the certiﬁcate of the presidingjudge.
131. SEO. 3. That said reporter, before he enters upon his duties as Stencgmpher to
reporter, shall be sworn in open court faithfully and honorably to perform be sworn.
all the duties required by this act; and no stenographer employed under
the provisions ofthis act shall receive compensation except when actually
engaged in the trial of causes.

V. Terms and places of holding certain courts.
An a.ct in relation to ﬁxing the terms of certain courts.
Approved March 10, 1880.

132. SEO. 1. That the court of errors and appeals may, from time to
time, change the times for holding the stated terms of said court; provided,
at least three such terms shall be held annually.

133. SEO. 2. That the chancellor may, from time to time, change the
times for holding the stated terms of the court of chancery and the pre
rogative court; provided, at least three such terms of each court shall be
held annually.
'

134. SEO. 3. That the supreme court may, from time to time, change the
times for holding the stated terms of the supreme court, the several circuit
courts, courts of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery, courts of
common pleas, courts of general quarter sessions of the peace and orphans’
courts; provided, at least three such terms of each court shall be held
annually.

135. SEC. 4. That no change to be ordered under this act shall become
operative until the order therefore shall have been entered upon the minutes
of the court making it, and publicly announced in the court whose terms
are to be changed, at a regular term, prior to the change going into effect.

136. SEO. 5. That a schedule, showing the times and places for holding
said courts, may be printed annually, in the volume of the public laws;

P. L. 1880, p. 136.
Court of errors
may change tlme
of holdlng terms.
Chancellor may
change llme of
holdlng terms.

Supreme court
may change time
of holding terms.

No change to be
operative untll
entered on the
minutes of sold
court.

Schedule may be
printed in the
volume of laws.

An act to ﬂx the times and places of holding courts in the respective
counties in this state.
Approved March 9, 1876.

137. SEC. 1. That the circuit court, the court of oyer and terminer and
general jail delivery, the court of common pleas, the court of general quar
ter sessions of the peace and the orphans’ court of the respective counties
in this state, shall hold annually stated terms at the times and places fol

lowing, and not otherwise, that is to say :
66

P. L. 1878, p. 2s.
Tlme and place of
holding regular

terms of court,
&c., In the conn
tles of the state.

COURTS.

1042
Bergen county.

Hudson county.

Essex county.

Monmouth

.

county.

Somerset county .

Middlesex county.

Warren county.

Sussex county.

Morris county.

Passaic county.

Hunlerdon
county.

Mercer county.

Burlington
county.

Camden county.

Cumberland
county.
Salem county.

Gloucester
county.
Atlantic county.

Cape May county.

Ocean county.

Fnion county.

When writs
returnable.

For what time
courts may be
held.

I. In the county of Bergen, at New Barbadoes, on the ﬁrst Tuesday of
April, September and December, respectively; (a)
II. In the county of Hudson, at Jersey City, on the ﬁrst Tuesday of
April, September and December, respectively; (b)
III. In the county of Essex,at Newark, on the ﬁrst Tuesday of April,
September and December, respectively ; (c)
IV. In the county of Monmouth, at Freehold, on the ﬁrst Tuesday of
May and October and the ﬁrst Tuesday after the ﬁrst day of January,
respectively ;
V. In the county of Somerset, at Somerville, on the third Tuesday in
April, September and December, respectively ; (d)
VI. In the county of Middlesex, at New Brunswick, on the ﬁrst- Tues
day of April, September and December, respectively ; (e)
VII. In the county of Wai'i'en, at Belvidere, on the fourth Tuesday in
April, third Tuesday in September, and the ﬁrst Tuesday after the fourth
Tuesday in December in each and every year; (g)
VIII. In the county of Sussex, at Newton, on the ﬁrst Tuesday of
April, September and December, respectively ; (h)
'
IX. In the county of Morris, at Morristown, on the ﬁrst Tuesday of
May and October, and the third Tuesday of January, respectively ; (i)
X. In the county of Passaic, at Paterson, on the fourth Tuesday of
April and September, and the ﬁrst Tuesday after the ﬁrst day of January,
respectively ;
XI. In the county of Hunterdon, at Flemington, on the second Tues
day in April, and the ﬁrst Tuesday in September and December in each
and every year; (Ir)

XII. In the county of Mercer, at Trenton, on the third Tuesday in
January, the second Tuesday in May, and the ﬁrst Tuesday in October in
each and every year; (I)
XIII. In the county of Burlington,at .\Iouut Holly, on the third Tues
day of April, September and December, respectively; (m)
XI V. In the county of Camden, at Camden, on the ﬁrst Tuesday of May,
October, and the second Tuesday of January, respectively; (n)

XV. In the county of Cumberland. at Bridgeton, on the ﬁrst Tuesday in
the months of October, January and May, respectively;
XVI. In the county of Salem, at Salem, on the third Tuesday in the
months of October, January and May, respectively;
XVII. In the county of Gloucester, at Woodbury, on the ﬁrst Tuesday
of April, September and December, respectively; (0)
XVIII. In the county of Atlantic, at Mays Landing, on the second
Tuesday of April, September and December, respectively;
XIX. In the county of Cape May, at Cape May Court House, on the
fourth Tuesdays of September and April, and the third Tuesday in Decem
ber, respectivel -' ;
XX. In the county of Ocean, at Toms River, on the second Tuesday of
April, the ﬁrst Tuesdays of September and December. respectively; (p)
XXI. In the county of Union, at the city of Elizabeth, on the ﬁrst
Tuesday of May, October and January, respectively.
138. Sac. 2. That all writs, process, recognizances and other proceedings
of the said several courts, which are now by law required to be returned
at a term of such court, shall be made returnable at and in conformity to
the terms and times hereby established.
'

139. SI-:0. 3. That the said several courts may, respectively, be held and
continued for so long time as the business thereof shall render necessary

(u) Changed by rule of supreme court. under the provisions
ofsection 31, from ﬁrst Tuesday of September to second Tues
day ofﬁeptember and December.
(b) (‘hanged from ﬁrst 'l‘uesday ofSeptember to second Tues
dny of September and December.
(0) (‘hanged from ﬁrst Tuesday of September to second Tues
day OIS('PI9il'lI)Pl' and December.
(11) Changed from third 'l‘uc-sdny ol'Septt-nibor and December
to fourth Tuesday of September nnd December.
(<1) Chaiigi-ti to second Tuesday of September and December.
L1!) (fhnnzed from third Tuesday of St-picmhcr in fourth
Tuesday of September.

(ll) Changed from ﬁrst Tuesday of September to second Tucs
day of September and December.

(i) Cliaiigetl from ﬁrst Tuesday ot'()ctober to second Tuesday

of October.
(A1) Changed from ﬁrst Tuesday of September to second Tues
dny oi‘ September and Doceiiiiier.
(Ii (“hanged lroin ﬁrst Tuesday of October to second Tuesday
of twiniwr.
l mi ('han_:.'e<l to fourth Tuesday in Jnnunry,second Tuesdayin
May unrl October.
(ni ('llﬂili.!Q(‘l to ﬁrst 'I‘ur~sday in April, second Tuesday in
September and I)Q‘I.‘QII1IH'l'.
i_0; Clli\ill.{l-?(l to ﬂrst'l‘ur-vlny in February and fourth Tuesday

in May and uctober.
V
(p) Chang:-ti to first ’l‘ue~.<luy in September and second Tua
dny in December and April.

CRANBERRIES.

1043

VI. Attorneys.
An act to provide for the examination in certain cases of applicants
for admission as attorneys to the supreme court of this state.
Approved February 22, 1882.

140. SEC. l. That any citizen of this state above the age of twenty-one
years presenting to the supreme court of this state, at any stated term

thereof, a certiﬁcate signed by ﬁre counselors-at-law of said court, ﬁve
years’ good standing, that the said citizen is a person of good moral char
acter and unusual aptitude in his knowledge of legal principles, and that
the counselors so certifying recommend that the said applicant be admitted
to examination at the stated examination of the said court for admission
as attorney, shall be by the said court, at any stated term thereof, admitted
to such examination, and if found qualiﬁed after examination in the books
now named by the supreme court in its amended rule relating to examina
tions of applicants for attorneys’ licenses and recommended for admission
as attorney by the examiners at such examination, he shall be so admitted

P. L. 1882. p. 22.
On certiﬁcate of
ﬂve counselors,
applicants may
be admitted to
examination.

to practice as an attorney of said court. (1)

141. SEC. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are

Repealer.

repealed, so far as the same relate to the particular persons so recommended
and certiﬁed to as aforesaid.
(12 The counselors making a certiﬁcate under this act shall, in addition to the matters to becertiﬂed by the act,certi that prior
to s gning said certiﬁcate they each examined the person certlﬂed for, with respect to his knowledge of legal priuc pies and oi.
the practice of law as established in this state, and that they made such certiﬁcate on such examination. Rule 5 0,! SIl]I!‘€!IV: Oourt
(Ed. 1885).

Oranberrles.
1. Penalty for gathering on unlocated lands.

10. Duly oi‘ deputies.

7. Or on lands not their own.
3. Penalty for unlawful taking.

ll. Penalty for neglect of duty.
12. Fines, how recoverable and how applied.

4. Removing vines uniawmlly.
5. Legal and standard packages established.

l3. legal and standard packages for cranberries.
l-1. Penalty for making or using packages of less dimensions

6. Brand or stamp to be fitrnishetl manufacturers.
7. Small packages, how marked.

than the legal and standard.
15. Fines, how recoverable.

8. Penalty for omitting to mark packages.
9. Appointment ofspecial deputies.

la. State inspectors to be appointed.
17. Repealer.

An act for the preservation of cranbenies.
Approved April 10, 1846.

1. That if any person or persons shall take or gather from the vines, at
any time after the ﬁrst day of June, and before the ﬁfth day of October,
cranberries on the common or unlocated lands within this state, or on any
lands not their own property, or for which they pay no tax, such person
or persons shall forfeit and pay, for every such offense, the sum of six
dollars, and also the further sum of four dollars for each and every bushel
so taken or gathered, within the times aforesaid, to be sued for and recov
ered by action of debt, in any court where the same may be cognizable,
with costs of suits, to be applied, one-half, if on the common or unlocated
lands, to and for the use of the county where the offense shall have been
committed; or if on any of the located lands, one-half to be paid to the
owner or possessor of said lands, and the other half to the use of the person
or persons who shall sue for and recover the same.
2. That if any person shall take or gather, and carry away from the
vines, at any time after the ﬁrst day of June, and before the ﬁfth day of
October, any cranberries, within this state, on any land not the property
of such person or persons, or for which they pay no tax,such person or
persons so offending shall be deemed guilty ofa misdemeanor, and on con
viction, shall be punished by ﬁne, not exceeding ten dollars.

R. 8.780.
Penalty for gath
ering on unlo
cated lands.

Or on lands not
their own.

DISTRESS.

120'!

An act to enable justices of the peace, police justices, recorders and
other magistrates before whom disorderly persons are tried, to
ﬁne and imprison such persons.
Approved May 6, 1889.

46. Si-IO. 1. That in all cases where any person is convicted of having
violated any of the provisions of the disorderly act, approved April ninth,
eighteen hundred and seventy-ﬁve, and the supplements thereto, it shall
‘and may be lawful for the magistrate before whom such person was con
victed, to sentence such person to the workhouse or common jail of the
county in which such person may be convicted, for a period not to exceed
ninety days, or to impose a ﬁne not exceeding twenty-ﬁve dollars on such
P erson.
4:7. SEO. 2.»That after such person in default of paying such ﬁne shall
have been committed to said workhonse or jail, it shall be lawful for the
magistrate to discharge such person on receiving such ﬁne or portion
thereof, as he may see ﬁt.
48. SEC. 3. That this act shall in nowise affect the proceedings against
persons referred to in the fifth section of the disorderly act.
49. Si-10.4. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent herewith be and
the same are hereby repealed.

P. I... 1889,11. sis.
Magistrates

empowered to ﬁne
or imprison per

sons convicted
under the dis
orderly act.

May discharge
prisoner upon

payment of ﬂue.

Act not to aﬂect
certain proceed
lugs.
Repealer.

Distress.
l. Distress to be reasonable.

Forfeit for carrying otfgoods.
Power to seize goods so taken.
May distmln after term ended.

2. Not wronglhi, or driven out of county.

3. What not liable to distress.
4. Beasts dlstrnlned, where impounded.

Remedy after estate for life ended.
After estate in wife's right ended.

5. Goods not in different places.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Distrained for rent, appraised and sold.
What may be distrsined.
Further speciﬁcation.
Impounded and sold on premises.
Remedy for pound breach.

11.
12.
13.
14.

For wrongful distress.
For unlawful act after distress.
Pleas and evidence in such case.
Goods may be followed and seized.

Remedy by executors, &c.

Distress for residue.

§i.‘&-’.!i'-‘~’.!i=3.‘—°?=’

Under-tenant to pay rent to landlord after notice.
when justice may order sale.
Exemptions. Appraised and selected.

How exemptions selected if landlord falls to proceed.
Extends to under-tenant.
Fees.

R. S. 63.

An act concerning dlstresses.
P. L. 1843,;-11224.
Revlsion—Approved March 27,1614.

1. That all distresses made or taken, or to be made or taken for any
cause whatsoever, shall be reasonable and not too great ; and if any person
shall take great and unreasonable distress or distrcsses, he or she shall

“

1861, p. 847.

Distress to he '
reasonable.
B. S. 63, Q1.

answer the damages to the party aggrieved. (a)

2. 'l‘hat no person shall take any distress wrongi'ully,or cause any dis
tress to be driven or conveyed out of the county where it shall be taken ;
and every person who shall do so of his or her own authority, and without

judgment, shall answer the damages to the party aggrieved.
3. That no person shall be distrained for any cause whatsoever, by his
or her beasts of the plow, or sheep, or by the implements of his or her
trade. while other distress or chattels whereof the debt or demand may be
levied, or snliicient for the same may be found; except the distraining
and impounding beasts found on the ground of any person damage feasant.

4. That beasts, when they are distrained for any cause whatsoever,
shall he put in open pound in the township or precinct where they shall
be taken, and they to whom such beasts belong, may give them their
feeding without disturbance, so long as they shall be impounded as
aforesaid.

Not wrongful, or
driven out oi
county.
Ib., Q 2.
What not liable to
distress.
Ib., § 3.

Beasts distrained,
where lmpou nded.
Ib., Q -1.

(a) 1}‘? precise uct or form of words is essential toadlstress. and a distress may be made wlthoutaotuai seizure.
1'. 364. Acts amounting to I distress. J I1.

aark,

Navel! v.

DISTRESS.

1208
Goods not in dif
ferent places.
Ib., I 5.

5. That no» goods or chattels, distrained or taken by way of distress for
any cause whatsoever at one time, shall be impounded in several places,
whereby the owner or owners of such distress shall be constrained to sue
several replevins for the delivery of the said distress so taken at one time,
upon pain that every person offending therein shall, for every such offense,

Distrained for
rent, appraised
and sold.
Ib., Q 6.

Amended.

forfeit to the party grieved, forty dollars and treble damages, to be recov
ered by action of debt in any court of record where the same shall be
cognizable.
6. Whereas, the most usual and ready way for recovery of arrears of
rent is by distress, yet such distresses not being to be sold, but only dc

tained as pledges for enforcing the payment of such rent, the persons dis
training have little beneﬁt thereby; for remedy whereof, be it enacted,
that where any goods or chattels shall be distrained for any rent reserved
and due (a) upon any demise, lease or contract whatsoever, and the tenant
or owner of the goods so distrained shall not, within ten days next after
such distress taken, and notice thereof, with the cause of such taking, left
at the chief mansion-house or other most notorious place on the premises,
charged with the rent distrained for, rcplevy the same with suﬂicient security
to be given to the sherlﬂ". according to law, that then in such case, after

such distress and notice as aforesaid and expiration of the said ten days,
the person distraining shall and may, on two days’ notice to the tenant,
with the sheriff or under sheriff of the county, or with the constable of the
township, precinct or place, where such distress shall be taken (who are
hereby required to be aiding and assisting therein), cause the goods and
Appraisers sworn.

Notice of sale.

chattels, so distrained, to be inveutoried and appraised by three sworn ap
praisers (whom such sheriff, under sheriff or constable, are hereby empow
ered to summon for that service, and to swear well and truly to appraise

the same, at the true and intrinsic value thereof, according to the best of
their understanding), and after such inventory and appraisement shall and
may lawfully sell, at public vendue, the goods and chattels so distrained
(giving ﬁve days‘ public notice by advertising the articles to he sold, and
the time and place of sale, in at least three of the most public places in the
township where such distress shall be made), for the best price that can be
gotten for the same, towards satisfaction of the rent for which the said goods
and chattels shall be distrained, and of the charges of such distress, ap
praisement and sale, leaving the overplus, if any, in the hands of such

What may be
distrained.

sheriff, under sheriff or constable for the owner’s use.
7. That it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons, having
rent in arrear and due upon any such demise, lease or contract as aforesaid,

1b., Q 7.

to seize and secure any sheaves, cocks, or stacks of wheat, rye, buckwheat,

Farmer speciﬁca
tlons.

Ib., Q 8.

barley, oats, Indian corn, or other corn or grain. or wheat, rye, buckwheat,
barley, oats, Indian corn or other corn or grain loose or in the straw, or
ﬂax, hemp, or hay, lying or being in any barn, crib or granary, or upon
any hovel, stack, rick or barrack, or elsewhere, upon any part of the land
charged with such rent, and to lock up or detain the same in the place
where the same shall be found, for and in the nature of a distress, until
the same shall be replevied, upon such security to be given as aforesaid;
and in default of replevying the same as aforesaid, within the time afore
said, to sell the same, aﬂser the appraisement thereof, in the manner as
above directed.
8. That it shall and may be lawful for all and every lessor or landlord,
lessors or landlords, or his, her or their steward, bailiff, receiver or other
person or persons empowered by him, her or them to take and seize as a
distress for arrears of rent, any of the goods and chattels, of his, her or
their tenant or tenants, and not of any other person, (b) although in pos

(al A distress will not lie for rent until it is due : and although

Ilelrl, on foreclosure, that rent due must be paid before interest

the roperty is not appraised and sold until after the rentisdue,
the rreguinrity is not thereby cured, but the distralnor will he
liable as a tres
r from the beginning. Eran: v. Herring, 3

or principal of the mortgage. Jilccha-nlrz‘ Bank v. 4?o<lu~u\. l
Hal. U/L. 334. Schnlk v. Schmidt, i Meﬁhrl. 268. A I208-II!
under s. lease made prior ton mortgage may be distrained upon
by the mortgagee for rent. Soudcr: v. Vnmickle, 3 }{r|I_ 313: re
versed in error, Hat. 1110.860. See Sanderson v. Prime. l lab.

Dutch. 243. I n sheriffaliow a tenant's goods to remain on the
premises aftera. levy. he does not thereby become u tenant of
the landlord and subject to distress. Hamilton v. Hamilton, 1
Dutch. 544
(II) Where a tenant. one of two partners.
ve a chattel mort

lge on his lease and machinery on the

emlsed premises

em.

But if such lease be subsequent to the mortgage, the mort

tzapzee cannot dislrnin. Price v. Smith, 1 Gr. Ch 5l6. As to the
mortgagee, such tenant, after foreclosure. is a trespasser. Den,

Hm-I v. -Stockton, 7 Hal. 322.

Howeu v. Schmela-,~4 Zab. 59. See

_,~_.

1209

DISTRESS.
session of such tenant or tenants, which may be found on the demised
premises except such goods and chattels as are by law privileged from
distress; (u) and also any hogs, horses, cattle or stock of his, her or their

respective tenant or tenants, and not of any other person, although in
possession of such tenant or tenants, feeding or depasturing on the demised
premises, or upon any common appendant or appurtenant, or anyways
belonging to all or any part of the premises demised or holden; and also
to take or seize all or any wheat, rye, buckwheat, barley, oats, Indian cor|1
or other corn or grain and grass, hops, roots, pulse, fruits, vegetables or
other produce whatsoever, growing or being on the premises or any part
thereof, so demised or holden as a distress for arrears of rent, and the
same to cut, dig, pull, gather, make, cure, carry and lay up in some proper
and convenient place on the premises, and for want thereof in some other
place to be procured by such lessor or landlord, lessors or landlords, (due
notice of such place being given to such tenant or lessee, or left at his or
her place of abode) and to appraise, sell and dispose of the same in the
time and manner hereinbefore directed; (b) pro-vided always, that it shall
not be lawful for any lessor or landlord, at one time to distrain for more

Limitation of the
right.

than one year’s rent in arrear, and that such distress must be made within

six months after the same shall become due; or where the rent is payable
in installments, then within six months after the year’s rent shall have
become due.
9. That it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons, lawfully
taking any distress for any kind ofrent, to impound or otherwise secure

Impounded and
sold on premises.

Ib., Q 9.

the distress so made, of what nature or kind soever it may he, in such

place or on such part of the premises as shall be most convenient for the
purpose, and to appraise, sell and dispose oi’ the same upon the premises,
in like manner as any person taking a distress for rent mar do off the
premises by virtue of this act; and it shall and may be lawful to and for"
any person or persons whatsoever, to come and go to and from such place
or part of the premises, where any distress for rent shall he impounded or
secured as aforesaid, in order to view, appraise and buy, and also to carry
off or remove the same on account of the purchaser thereof.
10. That if any pound breach or rescous shall he made of any goods,
chattels or other things distrained for rent and impounded or otherwise
secured by virtue of this act, the person or persons aggrieved thereby,
shall in a special action upon the case for the wrong thereby sustained,
recover his, her or their treble_ damages and costs of suit against the
offender or oﬂ"enders or any of them, in any such rescous or pound breach,
or against the owner of the goods distrained in case the same be afterwards
found to have come into his or her use or possession. (c)

11. 1’;-ovizled, always, that in case any such distress and sale as aforesaid
shall be made by virtue or color of this present act, for rent pretended to

Remedy for
pound breach.
Ib., Q l0.

For wrongful
distress.
Ib., ‘Q ll.

be in arrear and due, where in truth no rent is in arrear or due to the

person or persons distraining, or to him or them in whose name or names
or right such distress shall be taken as aforesaid, that then the owner of
such goods or chattels distrained and sold as aforesaid, his or her executors
ﬂtoma-I v. De Baum, 1 lifcthrt. 87. Goods owned Jointly by the
tenant and a stranger may be distralned. Aunt v. Apnea", 4
Zab. -H3. Even after an assignment for the beneﬁt ofcredilors.
Hoskiru v. Pmu, 4 Ilul. 1l0. The statute expressly limits the

right of distress to the goods and chattels of the tenant. and no
other person. Woodstae v. Adams, ll Vr. 417. Goods of a ten
ant on the premises demised were levied on by the sheriff by
virtue of an execution ainst the tenant, and were leit in the
tenant's possession; the

ancllord then made adistress on the

same goods for rent. In an action on the case by the landlord
against the tenant and a third person for selling the oods dis
trained on—IirM, that the defendants could notjust fy under

the levy, the sale of the goods havin

been made without the

knowledge or authority ofthe sheri .

.1Vzuv'Il v. Clark, 17 Vr.

383. The property in goods taken in execution is not changed
by the levy. so that they are thereafter the property of the
sheriﬂ’, within the meaning ofsect-ion 8, which allows a distress
for rent to be made on the goods ofthe tenant, and " not ot any

other person."

A sheriff, by his levy, acquires a special pro

erty in the goods levied on, but the title of the defendant n
execution is not therehy wholly divested. Ib. See Garton,

‘I51-., v. Tunuan, 10 N. J. L. J. 805.

Van Hcrm v. Goken, 12 Vr.

(a) Where the tenant makes a verbal contract with a third
party to work a farm on shares, such party ls nul a tenant, and
ence not entitled to the exemption. Guest \1 Updykr, 2 Vr.
558.

See Edpar v. Jewell, 6 Vr. 250.

(0) This section authorizes the landlord to dist rain all grain,
&c., "growing or being on the premises," V\'|lt~lhel‘ belonging

to the tenant or another etson. Guest v. (Jprl_i/I.‘(',2 l'r. 552
But, it seems, the tenant as a right toihe possession of the
crops, and can dispose of them absolutely without the land
lord's consent. Dnremm v. Howard, 8 Znb. 390. See Bloom v.
Welsh, 3 Dutch. 177. Iidnar v. Jzwcll, 5 Vi". ‘.’.-39. The right of a
lessor to distrain growing crops, is not aifecied by the sale of
such crops by the tenant. Bird v. Andn-.ron, 1'2. l'r. 392.
(c) An act on for trebledamages and costs, under this section,
cannot be maintained unless the goods distrained have been
“impounded or otherwise secured."

Neav-ll v. Clark,17 l'r.

883. Where goods distrained are left on the demised premises,
in the
,ession of the tenant and there impounded, in an
action

r pound breach and treble damages agalnsta

rson

claiming to be the owner, it is necessary to prove that ehas
notice of the impounding. Chdmtu v. Barney, 13 Vr. 346.

1210'

DISTRESS.
or administrators shall and may, by action of trespass or upon the case to
bc brought against the person or persons so distraining or any of them,
his, her or their- executors or administrators, recover double of the value

For unlawful act
ailer distress.
llb., Q 12.

Provlsos.

Pleas and evi
dence in such
case.

Ib., 9 13.

Costs.

of the goods or chattels so distrained and sold, together with full costs of
suit. (a)
12. 'l‘hat where any distress shall be made for any kind of rent justly
due and any irregularity or unlawful act shall be afterwards done by the
party or parties distraining, or by his, her or their agent or agents, the
distress itself shall not be therefore deemed to be unlawful, nor the party or
parties making it be deemed a trespasser or trespassers ab initio; but the
party or parties aggrieved by such unlawful act or irregularity shall and
may recover full satisfaction for the special damage which he, she or they
shall have sustained thereby and no more, in an action of trespass, or on
the case, at the election of the plaintifff or plaintifffs; pro-vided, that where
the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall recover in such action, he, she or they shall
be paid his, her or their full costs of suit,and have the like remedies for
tl1e same as in other cases of costs: and provided also, that no tenant or
tenants,
lessee or
shall
in amends
any action
for been
suchimade
unlawful
act
or
irregularity
as lessees
aforesaid,
if recover
tender of
hath
by the
party or parties distraining his, her or their agent or agents, before such
action brought.
13. That in all actions of trespass or upon the case, to be brought against
any person or persons entitled to rents or services of any kind, his, her or
their bailiff or receiver, or other person or persons relating to any entry
by virtue of this act, or otherwise, upon the premises chargeable with such
rents, or to any distress or seizure, sale or disposal of any goods or chattels
thereupon, it shall and may be lawful to and for the defendant or defendants
in such actions to plead the general issue and give the special matter in
evidence;(b) and in case the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall become non-suit,
discontinue his, her or their action, or have judgment against him, her or
them, the defendant or defendants shall recover double costs of suit.

Goods may be fol
lowed nnd seized.
Ib.. Q 14.

Provided not bona
ﬁde sold.
P. L. 1848, p. 224,
Q 1.

14. That if any tenant or tenants, lessee or lessees, for life or lives, term
of year or years, at will, sutferance, or otherwise of any messuage, lands,
tenements or hereditaments, shall convey away or carry oil‘ or from such
premises, his, her or their goods or chattels, leaving the rent or any part
thereof unpaid, it shall and may be lawful to and for every landlord or
lessor, landlords or lessors, or any person or persons by him, her or them
for that purpose lawfully empowered, within the space of thirty days next
after such conveying away or carrying off such goods or chattels as afore~
said. to take and seize such goods and chattels wherever the same shall be
found as a distress for the said arrears of rent, and the same to sell or
otherwise dispose of, in such manner as if the said goods and chattels had
actually been distrained by such lessor or landlord, lessors or landlords, in
and upon such premises for such arrears of rent ; provided always, that no
landlord or lessor or other person entitled to such arrears of rent, shall
take or seize any such goods or chattels as a distress for the same, which
shall be sold hona ﬁde, or for a valuable consideration, before such seizure
made to any person not privy to such fraud as aforesaid ; this section
shall extend to all cases where rent shall have accrued and shall be unpaid,
upon any demise or contract hereafter made, although by the terms thereof
the rent shall not be payable. (c)

(a) This action can only be maintained b the tenant, and
not by a stru.n,,'er, whose goods have been d strained. Horu
horne v. .Klc1'num, 2 1{ul.‘L9. It must appear on the record
what ihe single damages were. Ib. In a declaration, in an
action for unlawful distress there was n count for double value
of goods, under section ll, to which wu added a count for
injury to tenant’: business. The Jury returned, as sin le
damages, a sum us the value of the goods dlslrnlned and so d
and a sepamtc sum for lulury to tenant's businem. Held, that
the plaintln‘ could not recover both sums, but as the ﬁrst rind
lng was clearly under the ﬁrst count, there was no waiver of
the claim for double damages by ihc second count and ﬁnding.
Hrld. that the lust sum should he Itruck from the verdict
and judzment entered for double the value of the goods foun
by ihejury. Jiugilt v. Reed, H) Vr. 300.

(b) The landlord, on trespass brought by the tenant for I.
wrongtul distress cannot give the s ecial mhiiel‘ in evidence
under the genera issue, unless the islrcss was made on the

demlsed premises.

Oliver v. Ph»-lm, Spcn. 180, l Zao. 597.

Sea

Canon v. Wilson, 6 Ifat. -i3. Ilct/Ielxl v. Grnlrat R. R. Ch.,5
Dutch. 571. lbdd v. Jackson, 2 ])uLrh. 525.

(c) The landlord may follow the goods, although removed by
n constable under an execution, after noliee lo the constable of

the rent due. Peacock v. Hammtlt 8 Gr. 165. So, goods taken
from the demlsed rernises durin ihe term,but before the rent.
accrued, can be
istrained oi!’ t e promises, for such subse
uently-accruing rent, within thirty days after their removal.

Vein v. Jalm, 8 I’r. 93. Judd v. Benedict, 2 N. J. 1.. J’. 370.

1211

DISTRESS.

15. And to deter tenants from such conveying away their goods and Forfeit for carry
oi! goods.
chattels, leaving the rent unpaid, and others from willfully aiding or assist ing
R. S. 63. 2 16.
ing therein, or concealing the same, be it further enacted, that if any such _
tenant or lessee shall remove and convey away his or her goods or chattels
as aforesaid, or if any person or persons shall willfully and knowingly aid
or assist any such tenant or lessee in conveying away or carrying oft‘ any
part of his or her goods or chattels, or in concealing the same, all and every
person or persons so offending shall forfeit and pay to the landlord or
landlords, lessor or lessors, his, her or their heirs or assigns, from whose
estate such goods and chattels were so carried off as aforesaid, double
the value of the goods or chattels by him, her or them respectively carried
0ﬁ' or concealed as aforesaid, to be recovered by action of debt in any
court of record. (a)
18. 'l‘hat where any goods or chattels, conveyed or carried away as Power to seize
aforesaid, by any tenant or tenants, lessee or lessees, his, her or their ser goods so taken.
vant or servants, agent or agents, or other person or persons assisting Ib., I 16.
therein, shall be put, placed or kept in any house, barn, stable, outhouse,
yard, close. or place locked up, fastened or otherwise secured, so as to
prevent such goods or chattels from being taken and seized as a. distress
for arrears of rent, it shall and may be lawful to and for the landlord or
landlords, lessor or lessors, bis, her or their heirs or assigns, or his, her or
their steward, bailiff, receiver or other person or persons empowered to
take and seize, as a distress for rent such goods and chattels, ﬁrst calling
to his, her or their assistance the constable or one of the constables or
other peace oiﬁcer of the township, precinct or place where the same shall
be suspected to be concealed, who are hereby required to aid and assist
therein, and in case of a dwelling-house (oath being also ﬁrst made before Upon oath, may
some justice of the peace, of a reasonable ground to suspect that such break and enter
goods and chattels are therein), in the daytime, to break open and enter
into such house, barn, stable, outhouse, yard, close or place, and to take

and seize such goods and chattels for the said arrears of rent, as he, she or
they might have done by virtue of this act, ii" such goods and chattels had
been put in any open ﬁeld or place.
17. That it shall and may be lawful to and for any person or persons
having any rent in arrear and due upon a lease for term of life or lives,
year or years, or at will, ended or determined, to distrain for such arrears
after the determination of the said respective leases, in the same manner as
they might have done if such lease or leases had not been ended or deter
mined; provided, that such distress be made within the space of six calendar
months after the determination of such lease, and during the continuance
of such landlordfs title or interest, and during the possession of the tenant

.\[ay distrain after

term ended.
Ib., Q i7.

Proviso

from whom such arrears became due; or if the landlord’s title and interest
shall have ceased, or the tenant shall have removed from the leasehold

premises, then within thirty days after the end and determination of such
term of tenancy.
‘
18. That if any person who now hath or hereafter shall have any rents
or fee-farms, for term of life or lives, of any other person or persons and
the said rent or fee-farm now be or hereafter shall be due and behind, and

Remedy siter
estate for lite

ended.
Ib., 3 18.

unpaid in the life of such person or persons, for whose life or lives the
estate of the said rent or fee-farm did depend or continue. and after the
said person or persons do die, then he or she, unto whom the said rent or
fee-farm was due, his or her executors or administrators, shall and may

have an action of debt against the tenant in demesne, who ought to have
paid the same when it was ﬁrst due, his or her executors or administra
tors; and also may distrain for the same arrearages upon the lands and
tenements, out of which the said rents or fee-farms were issuing and
payable, in the like manner and form, as he or she ought or might have
done, if the person or persons by whose death the aforesaid estate in the
said rents and fee-farms was determined and expired, were in full life, and
the avowry for the taking of the same distress to make in manner and
(a) Attachment for rent wiii not lie against a tenant who has
placed his goods on a boat to remove them imm the state, and

has delivered the keys and poses!ion of the premises to his
landlord. Kugler V. Shrew, 4 Dutch. 129.

1212

After estate in
w1fe’s right ended.

Ib., g 19.

DISTRESS.
form aforesaid, and make appraisement and sale of such distress in
manner aforesaid.
19. That if any man who now hath or hereafter shall have in the right
of his wife, any estate in fee-simple, fee-tail or for term of life, of or in any
rents or fee-farms, and the same rents or fee-farms now be or hereafter
shall be due, behind and unpaid. in the lifetime of the said wife, then the
said husband, after the death of his said wife, his executors or adminis

trators, shall have an action of debt for the said arrearages, against the
tenant of the demesne, who ought to have paid the same, his or her
executors or administrators; and also, that the said husband, after the
death of his said wife, may distrain for the said arrearages, in like manner
and form, as he might have done if his wife had been then living, and for
the same distress make avowry upon his matter aforesaid, and make
appraisement and sale of such distress in the manner aforesaid.
Remedy by
executors, éc.

20. And whereas, by the common law, the executors or administrators
of tenants in fee-simple, tenants in fee-tail and tenants for term of life, of

Ib., Q 20.

rent-service, rent-charge, rent-seek and fee-farms, have no remedy to re
cover such arrearages of the said rents or fee-farms, as were due unto their

testators or intestates in their lives, nor may the heirs of such test-ator,
nor any person having the reversion of his or her estate after his or her
decease,distrain or have any lawful action to levy any such arrears of
rents or fee-farms; for remedy whereof, be it enrlcled, that the executors
or administrators of any such person or persons, unto whom any such
rent or fee-farm is or shall be due, and not paid at the time of his, her or
their death. shall and may have an action of debt for all such arrearages
against the tenant or tenants, who ought to have paid the said rent or tee
farm. so being behind in the life of the testator or intestate, or against
the executors or administrators of such tenant or tenants; that it shall be

lawful for every such executor or administrator of any such person or
persons, unto whom such rent or fee-farm is or shall be due, and not paid
at the time of his, her or their death as aforesaid, to distrain for the
arrearages of all such rents and_ fee-farms, upon the lands, tenements and
hereditaments which were, are or shall be charged with the payment of
such rents or fee-farms, and chargeable to the distress of the testator or
intestate, so long as the said lands, tenements or hereditaments continue,

remain, and be in the seisin or possession of the said tenant in demesne,
who ought immediately to have paid the said rent or fee~farm, so being
behind, to the said testator or intestate, in his or her lifetime, or in the

Distress for
residue.
Ib., Q 21.

seisin or possession of any other person or persons claiming the said lands,
tenements and hereditaments only by or from the said tenant, by purchase,
gift or descent, in like manner and form as the said testator or intestate
might or ought to have done in his or her lifetime ; and the said executors
or administrators shall, for the same distress, lawfully make avowry upon
their matter aforesaid, and make appraisement and sale of such distress in
the manner aforesaid.
21. That in all cases where the value of the goods and chattels distrained
as aforesaid, shall not be found to be of the full value of the arrears dis

trained for, the party to whom such arrears are or shall be due, his or her
executors, administrators or legal representatives may, from time to time,

Under-tenant to
pay rent to land
lord, alter notice.

P. L. 1848, p. 22-I,

12.

distrain for the residue of the said arrears; provided, that such distress
shall be made within the time limited by this act.
22. That when promises shall be underlct by any tenant, the under
tenant shall be liable to pay to the lessor or landlord the rent which shall
accrue, from and after notice in writing shall be served for that purpose
upon the said under-tenant, or which shall he unpaid by said under-tenant
at the time of such notice; and the lessor or landlord shall have all the
remedy for the recovery of the same, as is provided in this act; provided,

houwver, that the rent to be paid by such under-tenant shall in no case
exceed the amount agreed to be paid by the ﬁrst tenant ; and 7n'ovz'(led also,
that in case a part of the premises shall be underlet, payment shall be
required only for the part undc-rlet to such tenant, and at a rate propoltioned to the rent agreed to be paid by the lirst tenant or lessee.

DISTRESS.
23. That in all cases where any justice of the peace is or shall be required
or empowered, by any law of this state, to issue a warrant of distress for
the levying of any penalty inﬂicted, or any sum of money directed to be
paid by such law, and no mode pointed out for the disposal of such dis
tress, it shall be lawful for the justice granting such warrant, therein to
order and direct the goods and chattels, so to be distrained, to be sold and
disposed of within a certain time to be limited in such warrant, so as such
time be not less than four (lays, nor more than ten days, unless the penalty
or sum oi‘ money for which such distress shall be made, together with the
reasonable charges (to be taxed by such justice),of taking and keeping

1213
When justice may

order sale.
R. S. 63,; 22.

In what time.

such distress be sooner paid; and the officer making such distress, shall

and may deduct the reasonable charges of taking, keeping and selling such
distress (to be taxed as aforesaid), out of the money arising by such sale,
and the overplus, if any, after such charges, and also the said penalty or
sum of money shall be satisﬁed and paid, shall be returned, on demand,
to the owner of the goods so distrained; and the oﬂicer executing such
warrant shall show the same to the person whose goods are distrained, and
shall suffer a copy thereof to be taken; provided always, that this clause
shall not be construed to aﬁect any law wherein the sale of any distress
made on account of any penalty, ﬁne, or sum of money directed to be
paid, and the manner and time of such sale, are by such law particularly
provided for and ascertained.
24. That goods and chattels of every hind, not exceeding in value
(exclusive of wearing apparel) the sum of two hundred dollars, and all
wearing apparel the property of any tenant having a family residing in
this state, shall be reserved, as well after as before the death of such
tenant, for the use of his family, and shall not be liable to be sold as, or
for, a distress for rent, by force of this act or of any usage or law of this
state; that from the inventory of the goods appraised under the sixth
section of this act, such tenant, or in his absence, his agent, attorney, or
any member of his family, may select articles, the value of which, accord
ing to said appraisement, shall not exceed two hundred dollars; and if
such tenant, or a member of his family, his agent or attorney, cannot
readily be found, such selection may be made by said appraisers, and the
goods so selected shall be left for the use of the family of said tenant.
25. That in case the landlord, his attorney or agent, shall not, within
two days after being served with a request in writing i‘rom his tenant to
proceed and have the distrained goods appraised in the manner directed in
the sixth section of this act, it shall be lawful for such tenant, after ﬁve
days’ notice thereof to his said landlord, his attorney or agent, to apply to
the sheriff’ or to any constable of the county, and have the said goods in
ventoried and appraised in the manner appointed in said sixth section;
and from such inventory and appraisement the goods exempted for the use
of the family of the tenant, may be selected in the manner provided in the
next preceding section, and with like effect.
26. That the provisions contained in the next two preceding sections
shall apply to the case of under-tenants.
27. That all sheriffs and constables in this state are hereby required to
be aiding in the execution of the next three preceding sections of this act ;
and for such services they and the appraisers therein mentioned, shall be
entitled to the same fees that are provided for like services in the act

entitled “An act respecting executions.”

Proviso.

Exemptions.
P. L. 1851, p. 347.

Amended.

Appraised and
selected.

How exemptions
selected ii'innd
lord fails to pro

ceed.
Revision.

Extends to under;
tenant.
Fees.

_

1214

DISTRICT COURTS.

District Courts.
I. JURISDICTION.

61. Coufession‘ofjudgment and stay of execution.

1. Establishment of district courts.

62. Suit on judgment no stay of execution.

2. Amended by section 187.

63. Sale under execution.

3. Shall be courts of record.

64. Proceedings on claim oi’ property.
65. I-.‘iTect of, and proceedings after, verdict.
66. Of taking the body on execution.

-i. Amended by section 221.

5. Ministerial oﬂioers.
6. Amended by section 190.

7. Amended by section 191.
8. \Vhen recovery bar to recovery of residue.
9. Limitingjurisdictiou.

10. Suits to the amount oi’$200 cognizable.

.. Execution may issue without a revival ofjndgmenl.

68.
69.
70.
71.
72.

Notice to issue execution.
Execution in force one year.
Alias and plurirs executions.
Priority ofexecutlons.
Property levied on to be inventoried.

11. Parties may agree to waive process.
12. Stilts by and against corporations and attorneys.

73. Constable liable for neglect.

13. Judge whose term has expired may conclude case.

74. Execution against corporation.

1-i. Territorialjurisdiction.
VII. DOCKE'l']1\'G JUDGMENTS.
IT. PROCESS.
15. Process, how issued.
16. Penalty for signing blank summons or warrant.
17. Proceedings void ii‘ founded on summons issued in blank.
18. Process to compel appearance. \\'arrant.

19. \VhenJudge shall order warrant to issue.
20. Defendant may apply to set aside order.
21. Order to set aside warrant must be filed.

75. I-‘inal judgments may be docketed.
76. (‘ierk Ofpicas to keep docket.
77. Mode ofdocket ing judgments.
78.
79.
80.
Si.
82.

Operation ofdocl-acted judgments.
No proceedings in district court thereafter.
Revival ofdocketcd judgments.
Clerk shall make index to docket.
Appeal or ¢'r‘1'fl0r(lri. Stay ofexecution.

22. Summon~, when returnable. How served.

83. Clerk to enter determination on c-erliorarl or appeal.

23. How served on corporation.

81. Entry of rule neces<4ar_v to make judgment lien on land.
85. Clerk of pleas to record Judgment.

24. Sum demanded to be indorsed.
%. Proceedings upon warrant.

VIII. CERTIORARL

26. Re-cognizance, form oi’.

III. PLEA DING.
7. Amended by section 222.

28. \Vhen demand and plea to be ﬁled.
29. Amended by section 19".’.
30. Title to lands pleaded.

31. Effect of plea of title.
32. Amended by section 193.

S6. Judgment, &c., removed by certtorari only.
87. l\'o ('r'rti0rGTi allowed when appeal lies.
88. Proceedings to obtain certiorarl.

89. \Vhen adjudicated.
90. Costs on ailirmance only.
91. Jurisdiction of circuit courts.

92. Error or mistake not to revemejudgment.
93. Costs.
94. Judgments not reversed for rm" re irregularity.

IV. TRIAL.

95. \\'hen rehearing oi‘ case may be ordered.

83. Proceedings ifdefendant does not appear.
34. \Vhen cause shall be heard.

IX. COF PS.

35. Trial, when and how adjourned.
36. Hour of adjournments.

37. Adjournment in case set-oil‘ filed.
38. Jury demanded, and when.

96. Fees to clerk, &c.
97. Fees on appeal.

Items of.

98. \\'ho to pay jury of twelve men.
99. Of six men.

39. J'uror‘s oath. \\'itness' oath.
40. Fines ofjurors and witnesses.

100. Oiiicers' fees to be paid bet’ore'service required.

41. Ii‘ defendant has filed set-off, plaintifff not to withdraw suit.

101. Appeal not allowed until costs paid.

102. Fees in ﬁrst instance to be paid by appellant.
2. Proof by aflldavit of book account.

43. Proofofpartnership.
X. A1IEl\'DZi[E.\”I‘.
44. Proof by atlldavit oi‘ notes.

45. Proceedings where proof made by affidavit.
46. Disagreement ofjury.

103. Amendments may be made.
101. Etfect ofobjections to amending process or pleadings.
105. Constable may amend his return.

V. JUDG MICNTS.
XI. REIFERENCES.
47. \Vhen judgment against plaintiﬂ‘.
-1S. Jud,'_.:ment by conft-.\.=ion.
49. Amended by section 200.
60. Amended by section 19-i.

106. References, when may be ordered.

Proceedings.

XI I. DEPOS ITIONS.
107. Depositions of witnesses, how taken.

\'I. EXECUTION.
108. Manner oi’ taking.

51. Execution, when granted.
52. \\’hen execution against body may issue.

XIII. CLERKS. THEIR DUTIES AND DOCKETB

53. order ofjudge for execution.
.34.
55.
56.
57.

Application to set aside.
Judge to file order and give a copy.
Effect of order to set aside.
When oillcer to incur no liability.

109. Clerk to enter proceedings in docket.
110. Bill of costs to be entered in full.

111. Clerk out ofoffice may give transcripts.
112. If removed, docket to go to successor.

113. May have access to docket after delivery to successor.
58. Service of order.
59. Judge to furnish copy of order.
60. \Vhen second application allowable.

114. Penalty for refusing to deliver docket to successor.
115. Transcript of docket evidence.
116. Judge may not bring or defend suits.

1215

DISTRICT COURTS.
XVIII. SUPPLEBIENTS.

117. Bills, bonds, &c., assigned may be sued upon.
118. Mzirriage oi‘ female no abatement of action.

187. \Vhen two district courts may be established.

119. Actions against executors or administrators.

1.-es. Court abolished in certain cities.

12'). 1-‘.xecutom proving will may maintain suit.
121. Singular number and masculine gender, how construed.

189. Disposition of papers, &c., oi’ abolished courts.
190. Jurisdiction extended to $200.
191. Ju rlsdictlon extended in suits on bonds, &c.

XIV. LANDLORD AND TEN'AN'1‘ PROCEEDINGS.

192. ‘Neglect in tiling set-ot1’a bar to future action.

122. Remedy for desertion of premises by tenant.

193. Bond required ofdefendant on tiling plea of title.

123. Remedy lfrent unpaid or term ended.

194. Judgment on bond, &c., to be given for real debt.

124. Landlord's or lessor’s aﬂldavit.
‘.15. Summons to be issued.

195. Attachment may issue for debt, &.c., not exceedingQ2\
196. Repeater.
197. Justice of supreme court only to vacate warrant.

128. Proof of termination of tenancy.

198. When trial by in ry waived.

127. Service ofsummons.
128. \\'rit ofpoasession.

,

129.
130.
181.
132.

Right ofptmeasloii without title to be proved.
Proceedings not to be appealed or removed by certtorart.
Fees.
\Vlien proceediniri may be removed to circuit.

133.
134.
135.
136.

Proceeding-1 in circuit.
..\'0iice of trial.
Judgment. Writ ofpomessiou.
Power and jurisdiction oi‘ circuit.

137. .\'otice to quit.
XV. FORCIBLE E.\'Tll.Y AND DETAINER.

199.
200.
201.
202.

203. Amended by section 248.

201. Stay of proceedings for perfecting appeal.
Z15. Judge not prohibited from practicing except in pleas‘)!
appeals.

206. Clerk not to receive pay for drawing pleadings.
207. ltepealer.

203. Judge may designate person to act as clerk in case ordin
ability of clerk.
209. In actions on notes, &c., parties may be designated by

188. Unln'.vI'ui entry prohibited.
139. \Vhat constitutes a forcible entry and detainer.
140. \\'li it a forcible detainer.

141. \\'li;it estates comprehended.
142. Wlinz an unlawi‘ul detainer.

\Vhen clerk may adjourn trial.
Repealer.
Advertisement of sale by constable.
Claim of property. Trial of right.

initial letters, &c.

210. All prirties liable on note, &.c., may be included in one
acii _-u.
211. Plalntiil’ to annex to state of demand copy oi’ bill or note.

1~i.i. I~‘of:n of summons.

212. 1iowjud:;.nen'. may be rendered.
213. Judgment in c.is- .- set-0.'Tali0wed.
214. Rights and responsibilities of parties to bill, &c.,betWe&

1-15. Service ofsummons.
146. Plea and isszie.

each other.
215. Money to be made out of party principally liable.

147. \Vrlt or restitution. when issued.

216. Jurisdiction co-extensive with county.
217. Waiver of excess by pluiutlif.

113. On complaint, process to issue.

148. I‘ostpoi1vmi-:.t ui'l:'I..!.

119. Duty of cit.-:'I;.
150. Penalty on sheriff for neglect.
151. Proceedings removable by C(I'”O7'(l7“ only.

218. Amended by section 233.
219. Alias t1.1l(ipZm‘ir.! executions.

m. Entry of appearance in attachment before bearing. Pm

152. When Ct‘r'.'iuril1'l will be granted.

ceedings.

153. How proseeutetl and tried.

‘£1. Superseded by sections 234 to 2'36.

151.
155.
156.
157.

222. Actions ot'dcbt, &c., to be styled upon contract.

Judgment no bar to action for trespass.
Title not tube inquired into.
Subpu-na for \vitiie:<ses.
Fees to clerk 1.

158. Penalty for default of juror or witness.

223. Actions of trespass, &c., to be styled in tort.
224. District courts to be continuous courts of record.
225. Judge may adjourn proceedings.

226. When Judge ceases tolbe such, clerk to continue in oilice
until successor is appointed.
227. Books, papers, &.c., to be delivered to clerk's successor.

XVI. PROCEEDINGS BY ATTA~.
T8. Transcripts by clerk to be received in evidence.

159. Amended by section 195.
100. Advertisement required.

229. Clerk may issue executions.
230. Execution valid ai'ter one year from issue.

161. Proceetlings against garniabee.

231. Proceedings in suits for the disposwssioli oftenants.

162. Dei'endant’s appearance and bond.

232 Clerks may receive verdicts in absence ofjudge.

163. Plea, trial and appeal.
161. Appeal in garulshee's case.

m. Judge may order new trial.
234. Judges, how appointed and term ofoffice.

165. Attachment, when superseded.
168. Motion to quiuh without filing bond.

2'15. Present judges to continue in oilice.
236. Repealer.

237. Amended by section 216.
XVI 1'. .\[IS(_'ELLA1‘TEOU$.
167. Act not to aiTect pending stilts.
168. Clerks may administer oaths, &c.
189. \\'hen defendant m-i_v pay money into court.
170. "Verdict ofjury or decision of Judge conclusive as to ques
tions of fact.
171. Appeal on questions oflaw.
172. \Vheu appeal taken, state of case to be agreed on.
173. Time allowed to agree on case.

238. Appointment oi‘ sergeant-at»arn1s.
239.
2-i0.
241.
‘.112.
213.

Powers of sergeant-at-arms.
Fees and com pensatiou.
Sergeant-at-arms to give bond.
It-.-pealed b_v section 2-ii).
ltepenietl by section 2i9.

2H. Jzidge ofone district court may hold court for another.
2-i-3. Salaries to be paid in monthly instnlitncuts.
2-18. Salaries ofjudges. O1‘ clerks.
247. Itepealer.

174. Decision oi’ common pleas maybe removed by crsrzlorarl.
218. Service ofaummons by aillxing on premises.
175. lllstrict court _iud_'.;es to make rules.
219. Itepealer.
176. Oath ofjudges and clerks. Form.
177. Clerk ofpieas to administer oaths.
TS. Ameuilel by sections 23'.‘ and 246.

‘%. Clerks, where district court abolished, to file all papersln
county clerk '5 oilice.
2'51. \\'lien appeilee may apply for the dismissal ofappeal.

179. All fees to be paid to clerk.

252. New bond may be substituted.
184). I-‘ees of constables, &.c., payable to clerk.
181. Additional fees allowed to clerk.
182. Amended by section 205.

1H3. It mzns and furniture to be provided.
181. Judges to r.lcsi.";nate constables
1S5. Clerks shall give bond.
186. Construction of words.

XYIC. EXTENDED J['I{ISDICTIO.\'.
2.33. Jurisdiction extended to @100.
234. In actions for over :j~'.Z..i(), .-u:;1mons, &c., to issue to sheriﬂ.
255. Jimended by sections 267 and ‘.17 .

256, Statements necessary for docl;ctingjud_;ments.

DISTRICT COURTS.

‘l2l6

257. Statement may be made any time after judgment.

XX. MISCELLANEOUS ACTS.

258. Amended by sections 272 and 273.
Z59. When parties may recover witness fees.

250.
261.
262.
7163.

_

275. End of term of Judges now in oﬂlce. Succwsors, how ap
pointed.
‘276. Judgment may be appealed to court of common pleas.
277. Proceedings and costs.
278. Time for taking appeal.

Fees ofjurors in eases over $200.
Jurisdiction in attachment extended to $300.
In proceedings for discovery, witnesses required to testify.
Defendant taken on warrant may disprove truth of sill‘

$9. Bepealer.

280. Manner oi‘ prosecuting suits and actions against. foreign
corporations.
281. Provisions of act extended.

dsviis.
264. Jurisdiction in suits by or against municipal corporations

extended to M00.
265. When Judgment exceeds $200, removal to supreme court by
art I01-art’ .

XXI. SPECIAL DISTRICT (X)UR'I-S.

266. Judge may hold any other district court.
267. Amended by section 274.

232. Act not to apply to courts in existence when passed.

‘Z65. Proceedings against witnesses in proceedings for discovery.
269. Jill'lStllCil0il oi’ all district courts co-extensive with limits

283. Jurisdiction of courts created by special statute extended
to $200.
‘;'?-i. Costs in landlord and tenant cases.
255. Vacancies in district courts established by special statute,
how ﬁlled.

oi’ county.

270. Defendant may set up defect in or failure of consideration
ln action on contracts.
27i. Court oi’ common pleas to try cases on appeal de nova when
judge fails to sign the case us required by law.

286. Repealer.

272. Amended by section 273.
273. Powers nnd Jurisdiction of judges upon petition for dis

covery in aid of executions.

’

274. Pieadings where debt exceeds $200.

I. Jurisdiction.
An act constituting “district courts” in certain cities in this state.
Approved March 9, 1577.

P. L. ISTT, p. ‘Z3-I.
District cou ris

established.

1. Thai; there shall be constituted in certain cities in this state, in this
not hereinafter designated, courts to be designated district courts of the
cities respectively wherein said courts may he established. (a)

2. [Amended by Sec. 187, posh]
District courts to
be courts of
record.

3. Thai; said courts shall be courts of record, and have oﬂiciul seals, and

all persons shall be amenable to punishment for contempt of said courts
in the same manner as in other courts of record of this state having power
to punish for contempt of court, and licensed attorneys shall not. be neces
sary in the prosecution or defense of any suit or proceeding in said
courts. (b)

4. [Amended by Sec. 221, post]
Miriislerini
oilicers.

5. That the ministerial officers of said courts shall he a clerk, and the
constables of the city and county wherein said courts may be established;
the clerk of each of said courts shall be appointed by the judge thereof,
and shall hold his office until the appointment of his successor.

6. [Amended by Sec. 190,p0st.]
7. [Amended hy Sec. 191, po.s-L]
When recovery
shall he a bar to
recovery of
residue.

8. That where the debi;,balauce or other matter in dispute, or amount
really due or recoverable as aforesaid, exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum
or value of two hundred dollars, the plaintifff may recover in such court a

sum not exceeding two hundred dollars and costs, but such recovery shall
be a bar to

the recovery of the residue of such debt, balance or other

matter in dispute in any court whatsoever.
Limiting of
jurisdiction.

9. That nothing in sections seven or eight of this act shall be held or
construed as conferring jurisdiction upon any district court in any of the

cases excepted out of the jurisdiction of a district court by section six.
Suits to the
amount of $200
cogniznble.

10. That every sum oi‘ money or penalty, not exceeding two hundred
dollars, to he sued for and recovered by virtue of any law of this state, in

any court of record, or in any court having cognizance thereof, shall be
and hereby is made cognizable before any judge of any district court in

manner aforesaid. (0)
(n) District courts are inferior courts, which the legislature is
empowered to estabiish,aiter or abolish, at its discretion, as the
public good may require; and if, in legislative discretion, the

prosecute or defend any action in any court of the state, unless

court is Bbollshedbthe term pvt’ sepnvice ofits oﬁicsrswiii thereby
ulgrrx v.
ew rumwick, i3 r. 5i.
be terminated.
(D) See Rlttnehart v. Lance, 14 Vr. 318. By P. L. ll-139, p. 423, no
person, except in his own case or in the case of an infant, shall

constituted, have jurisdiction of actions for penalties nrisirn:

e is a licensed attorney-i_\t-law.

(c) The district courts, in virtue of the net by which they are

‘,ii'.L‘f.'.§.'L§-i‘-’°‘ii‘.‘.‘.“°‘,‘.“§ii°’<$..%.‘,».u‘
“°‘ 2°'. '§;‘L‘l?.‘“}‘;$E’"‘°“°’
-.18 -Vr. 347.
0
ar "wq" °"
Vr. 241 ; aﬂirmed,
16

DISTRICT COURTS.
11. That parties may agree to enter, without process, any action before
a judge oi‘ a district court. to the decision of which he is competent if
process had been executed, and the court shall proceed thereon to ﬁnal
judgment and execution, in the same manner as if a summons or warrant
had been issued and duly served.
12. '1‘hat any body politic or corporate in this state may sue and be sued
in any district court in any action or proceeding over which said court has
jurisdiction; and all attorneys at-law shall and may be sued in said court
in like manner or form of action as other citizens of this state are liable to
be sued in said court.

1217
Parties may agree
to waive process.

Suits by and
against corpora

tions and
attorneys.

_

13. That any judge of any district court whose term of office may here
after expire, shall proceed to the ﬁnal determination of any cause or pro
ceeding then undetermined before him, and also make return to all writs

Judge whose term
has expired may
conclude case.

to him directed, issuing out of any court in this state, in the same manner

as if his term of otfice had not expired.

14. That the territorial jurisdiction of every judge of any district court
under this act shall be co-extensive with the limits of the city for which he
is appointed and commissioned; his writs, precepts and process shall run
in and through such county, and he may, in causes pending before him,
award writs of subpoena for witnesses into other counties of this state.
[See Secs. 216 and 269,p0st.]

Territorial juris
d lctlo n .

II. Process.

15. That all the precepts, summons, warrants, writs and other process
of said district courts shall be tested the day on which they are respectively
issued, in the name of the judge and signed by the clerk thereof.
16. That if any clerk of said district courts shall sign his name to any
blank summons or warrant, and allow any constable or other person to
ﬁll up the blank or blanks in the said process, without the special direc
tion of the said clerk and in his presence, and shall afterwards issue the
said process or suifer the same to be served, such clerk shall be deemed
guilty of misbehavior in office, and on conviction thereof shall forfeit and
pay the sum of ﬁfty dollars, to be recovered by action of debt by any
person who shall prosecute for the same in_any court having jurisdiction
of the case, one-half for the use of the person prosecuting and the other
half for the township in which such clerk shall reside.
17. That the service of any summons or warrant which shall have been
issued by any clerk as aforesaid in blank, and afterwards ﬁlled up by the
constable or other person,without the special directions of said clerk as
aforesaid, shall be taken and considered to be altogether void, and any judg
ment or other proceeding afterwards had or taken in consequence of such
service or founded thereupon, shall be void and of no eﬁ'ect.
18. That the ﬁrst process to compel appearance shall be a summons or
warrant in the nature of a capias ad respondendum; provided, that no
warrant shall issue against the body of any female; the summons may
be used in any case whatsoever;the warrant shall only be used in the
following cases :
I. Where the defendant is not a freeholder and resident of the county in
which process shall issue, where the action being founded upon contract,
express or implied, due proof is made, on oath or affirmation, to the satis
faction of the judge, of the amount of the debt or damages claimed, and
that there is a debt or demand founded upon contract, express or implied,
due to the plaintifff from the defendant, specifying the nature and particu
lars of said debt or demand, and establishing, by the oath or affirmation of
the plaintifff, or some other person, to the satisfaction of the judge, one or
more of the following particulars: that the defendant is about to remove
any of his property out of the jurisdiction of the court in which an action
is about to be commenced, with intent to defraud his creditors; or, that
the defendant has property or rights in action which he fraudulently con
ceals; or, that the defendant fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred

the obligation respecting which such suit was brought;
77

Process, how
issued.

Penally for sign

ing blank sum
mons or warrant.

When service of
summons or
warrant is lo be
deemed void.

Process to com
pel appearance.

\\"ll'l1\l'll.

When warrant
shall only be used.

DISTRICT COURTS.

1218
When action is
founded on tort.

On assignment
with intent to
deilraud, ac.

When judge to

make order that
warrant issue.

How warrant
may be set aside
and defendant
released.

II. Where the defendant is not a frceholder and resident of the county
in which such process shall issue, and where, the action being founded
upon tort, due proof is made, on oath or afiirmation, to the satisfaction of
the judge, of the amount of the damages claimed, and of such other facts
and circumstances as would, by the practice of the supreme court, warrant
ajustice thereof in making an order to hold to bail in a case of tort ;
III. If the defendant be a freeholder and resident of the county in which
such process shall issue, and due proof is made, on oath or aﬁirmation, to the
satisfaction of such judge, that the defendant has assigned or disposed of,
or is about to assign or dispose of all his land lying in said county, with
intent to defraud his creditors, then such defendant may be held to bail in
like manner and upon the same proof that would warrant his arrest in case
he were not a freeholder and resident in the county in which such process
shall issue.
19. That upon proof made as aforesaid the judge shall make and sub
scribe an order that a warrant issue against the defendant for such amount
as such proof shall justify and require; but before said warrant issue, such
order and the aiiidavit or affidavits upon which the order is founded shall
be ﬁled by said judge.
20. That if the defendant bearrested upon such warrant he may, at
any time before the trial of the cause, make application to a justice of the
supreme court or to the law judge, if any, of the court of common pleas of
the county in which such process issued, or to any supreme court com
missioner, to set aside said order, the defendant having ﬁrst given reason

Proceedings

when order is set
aside.

able notice to the plaintifff of such application, and the giving bond or
entering into recognizance in manner hereinafter directed shall be no
waiver of the defendant’s right to make such application; and if such
justice of the supreme court, law judge or commissioner shall deem the
proof made insuﬂicient to warrant an arrest, he may order that the order
made by the judge of said district court be set aside; such order setting
aside the order of the judge of said district court shall thereupon operate as
a discontinuance of the suit in which such warrant issued, the bond or
recognizance, if any, shall become void, and the plaintifff shall be forever
thereafter barred from proceeding against the body of the defendant for the
same cause of action, but he may proceed against the defendant by sum
mons, in the same manner as if no other proceeding had been instituted.

[See Sec. 197, post]
Order to set aside
warrant must be
ﬂied.

Summons, when
to be made
returnable.
How served.

21. That the order made by thejustice of the supreme court, law judge
or commissioner shall be ﬁled with thejudge who issued the warrant. and
such judge shall furnish certiﬁed copies thereof to the parties or -their
agents on request.

22. That the summons shall be made returnable between the hours of
nine o’clock in the forenoon and three o’clock in the afternoon, both inclu

sive, and shall specify a certain place and time, not less than ﬁve nor more
than ﬁfteen days from the date of such process, and shall be served at least
ﬁve days before the time of appearance mentioned therein, by reading the
same to the defendant and delivering to him a copy thereof, if he or she
shall be found, and if not found, by leaving a copy thereof at his or her
house or place of abode, in presence of some person of the family, of the
age of fourteen years, who shall be informed of the contents thereof. and
the constable serving such summons shall, on the oath of his ofﬁce, indorse
thereupon the time and manner he executed the same, and sign his name

How served on

thereto.
23. That if the defendant be a body politic or corporate, the summons

corporation.

may be served on the president, treasurer. cashier or clerk of said corpora

tion, if found, and if not found, on any of the directors or managers thereof.
in the manner hereinabove directed. (a)
((1) An action will not lie in the district court against a
miinl1'l|1ul corporation because of the absence of legal power to
serve its process on the defendant. Ibumsend v. 7'|~u.sm=.~, 12 Vr.
812. This decision was in i879. The Jurisdiction was extended

to actions by or against municipal corporations by section W,

post. In landlord and tenant cases, where the tenant is s. bod:
corporate, the summons should be served in acoumgnna with
age‘ prlmiisions of this section. Fact: Publishing Lu \-_ peg“;
‘r. 6 .

DISTRICT COURTS.
24. That the said clerk shall enter in the body of every summons or
warrant the sum demanded (and indorse the same, with costs, on the said
summons or warrant), which he shall issue by virtue of this act; and if
the defendant think proper to pay such debt, damages or demand, with
costs, so entered or indorsed, without any further proceedings in the cause,
then it shall be lawful for the constable to receive the same, and his receipt
shall be a full discharge to such defendant from such debt, damages or
demand and costs aforesaid ; and if any constable shall not pay the money
so by him received for such debt, damages or demand, to the clerk issuing
such process, or to the plaintifff in the said process, or his legal representa
tive, within ﬁfteen days after he shall have received the same, then such
constable shall be liable to pay to such plaintifff or his legal representative

1219
Sum demanded to
be speciﬁed in
summons and
indorsed.

Constable to pay
money received

within ﬁfteen
days.

the amount of the said debt, damages or demand, with interest, to be

recovered by action of debt with double costs.

25. That the warrant commanding the defendant to be arrested shall he
returnable forthwith after service thereof; and the constable serving said

Warrant to be
returnable forth
with.

warrant shall, according to the tenor thereof, forthwith convey the said
defendant before the judge who issued the same, who shall thereupon, at
his discretion, either cause the said defendant to enter into recognizance
in the manner hereinafter mentioned, or, on neglect or refusal, shall com
mand the said_ constable to convey the said defendant to the jail of the
county, to be there detained in custody until time may be had for the
hearing or trial of the cause, not exceeding three days from the time of
the return of the said warrant, or such judge may direct the said con
stable to hold the said defendant in custody until the plaintifff shall be
notiﬁed and have time to appear and proceed to such hearing or trial ; and
the constable who served the said warrant as aforesaid shall, on the oath of
his office, indorse thereon the execution of the same, and sign his name
thereto; prmnlded, always, that it shall not be lawful to arrest or imprison
the person of any female by virtue of any mesne process or process of
execution in any civil action; and provided, also, that if any person or per
sons whatsoever shall hereafter be arrested by virtue of such warrant, it
shall be lawful for the constable who served the same to permit the defend
ant to enter into bond to the plaintiﬂ‘, with a good and suﬂicient freeholder,
resident in the county, to the amount of the debt or damages and costs
indorsed on the warrant, for his, her or their appearance on the day and
hour mentioned in the bond, not more than eight days (excluding Sundays)
from the service of the warrant; the bond to be entered into by the
defendant shall be in the form and to the effect following, to wit :
“ \Ve, A. B. and C. D., do hereby acknowledge ourselves indebted to E. F. in
the sum of
, to be paid to said E. F. on the following conditions : that
if the said A. B. shall be and appear before
, the judge of the district
court of
, on the
day of
.at
o’clock
noon, and answer unto the complaint of the said E. F., then this bond to
be void, or else to be and remain in full force and virtue ; in witness whereof
we have hereunto set our hands and seals the
day of
in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
; sealed and
delivered in the presence of G. H., I. K.; signed A. B. and C. D. ;” which
bond the said constable is hereby ordered and directed, when taken, to
deliver to the judge on the return of the warrant, to be by him ﬁled in his
oﬂice to and for the use of the plaintifff, for which service the constable

shall be entitled to thirty-ﬁve cents costs, to be paid by the defendant, and
not recoverable by him from the plaintifff; and in all cases, the said con
stable shall attend at the said district court, on the day and hour mentioned
in said bond, to be there and then ready to secure and take into his custody
the said defendant; and if the said judge shall not be found at his dwell
ing, or usual place of holding trials, the defendant shall be permitted to
renew his bond, with sureties as aforesaid, for his appearance at some
future day, not exceeding ten.

26. That the recognizance directed in the twenty-ﬁfth section of this act
shall be entered into by the defendant, with at least one surety, having
suﬂicient freehold and residing in the county, to the plaintifff in the said

Defendant may
enter into a'
recognizance.

Duty of constable.

Proviso.
Proviso.

Form of bond.

Bond to be ﬂied.
Fee of constable]

When bond may
be renewed.

Nature of the
recognizance.

1220

F0 nu of
recognizance.

when demand
and plea to be
ﬂled.

Bet-oﬂ.

Copy of account
or demand to be
Bet offrshall be
delivered to the
judge.

DISTRICT COURTS.
action, in the amount of the demand speciﬁed in the warrant, according to
the effect and meaning of the following form, that is to say :
“ City of
, county of
, to wit:
“ Whereas, A. B. hath been arrested and is now in custody, by virtue of
a warrant issued by G. D.,judge of the district court in and for the said
city, at the suit of E. F., in an action of
for the sum of
;
now, be it remembered, that on the
day of
in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
, the said A. B. and G. H._
of the city aforesaid, personally appeared before me, the said C. D., and
jointly and severally acknowledged themselves to owe to the said E. F. the
sum of
,to be made and levied of their several goods and chattels
upon condition that if the said A. B. shall not appear on the
day of
next, before the said judge, or if he does appear and is condemned
in the said action, at the suit of the plaintifff, that he shall pa_\' the costs
and condemnation money, or surrender him up to the constable, on the
execution to be thereafter issued against him, on the day judgment shall be
obtained, and if he fails so to do, that he, the said G. H., will pay the said
costs and condemnation money for him, and suffer judgment to be entered
up against him for the same.
“Acknowledged the day and year last abovesaid, before me, C. D., the
judge of the district court in and for the said city of
;" and e\'er_\'
judge of any district court is hereby empowered and directed to take such
recognizance, which shall remain with such judge, for the beneﬁt of the
plaintiff in the suit.
III. Pleading.

27. [Amended by Sec. 222, p0st.]
28. That the plaintifff in such suit shall, on or before the return day
of the said summons, or on the return of the warrant, or at the time of
appearance speciﬁed in the recognizance, deliver or cause to be delivered
to the judge before whom the action is to be tried, a copy of his or her
account or state of demand against the defendant, and in default thereof
the said plaintifff shall be non-suited, with costs; and if the defendant
have any account or demand against the plaintifff, he shall be permitted
to discount or set oﬂ‘ the same against the account, debt or demand of such
plaintiﬂ'; but such copy of his or her account, or state of his or her
demand, so intended to be set off, shall be delivered to the said judge, on or

before the return day of the summons, or on or before the day to which
the hearing shall be ﬁrst adjourned; or, if on a warrant, then at the time

of hearing of the cause; and in default thereof, the said account or demand
Further time
allowed to ﬁle the
setolf.

shall not be received in evidence on the trial of the said cause; but if the
said warrant shall not have been executed three days prior to the davof
hearing, then the said defendant, if he or she have any account or deniand

to set off, and will enter into recognizance, as directed by the twenty-ﬁfth
section of this act, shall be allowed further time, not exceeding three davs.
to deliver to the said judge such copy of his or her account or state of
demand as aforesaid.

29. [Amended by Sec. 192, posl.]
Title to lands
pleaded.

30. That when, in any action to be brought by virtue of this act, the
defendant shall, as a justiﬁcation, plead title to any real estate in himself
or another, under whom he acted or entered, such defendant shall commit

the said plea to writing, and, having signed the same, shall deliver such
plea to the said judge, who shall countersign and deliver it to the plain
tiff; and thereupon it shall and may be lawful to and for such plaintiﬂ‘
to commence and prosecute his action against such defendant in the supreme
court, or in the circuit court of the county wherein such action shall have
been commenced ; and if, in such action, the plaintifff recover any damages.

he shall be entitled to and recover therewith all costs of suit.
Effect of plea of
mle.

31. That on every trial so to be had in such action where title is pleaded.
the plea so as aforesaid signed by the said defendant shall be conclusive

evidence that such defendant relied on title by way of justiﬁcation.

32. [Amended by Sec. l93,p0st.]

DISTRICT COURTS.

1221

IV. Trial.
33. That if the defendant does not appear at the time and place ex
pressed iii the summons or recognizance, and no sufficient reason shall be
assigned to the judge why the defendant does not appear, and if, where
the process is a summons, it shall further appear by the return indorsed
thereon that the summons was duly served, then the said judge may pro
ceed to hear and determine the cause in the absence of such defendant.
34. That when the parties in any suit to be instituted by virtue of this
act shall appear at the place and the time expressed in the summons, or at

Trial Io proceed
when defendant
does not appear.

Proceedings when
parties appear.

the return of the warrant, or at the time of appearance mentioned in the

recognizance, the said judge shall proceed to hear or examine their respec
tive allegations and proofs, unless he shall think it proper to adjourn the
trial.
35. That any judge of any district court before whom a suit is instituted
by virtue of this act, may, to prevent fraud or surprise on either side, or
on reasonable cause being assigned by or in behalf of either party, adjourn
the trial to any time not exceeding thirty days from the return day of the
summons, or, if the process be by warrant, from the time when the same
was returned, or from the time of appearance mentioned in the recogni
zanee, except where the applicant for such adjourninent shall make oath
or atiirmatioii that he cannot safely go to trial for want of a material
witness, whom he shall name, being absent and out of this state, and then
such judge may postpone the trial to any time not exceeding three months
from the return day of the summons; ;n'0viiI<'d, that if the process is by
warrant the defendant shall, previous to such adjournment, if required by
the judge, enter into recognizance to the plaiiititf, as in and by this act is
before directed; [)I‘Ol.'[(ll’(l, also, that if eitlicr of the parties to a suit here

Adjournment,
when may be um

Proviso.

Proviso.

after brought before a judge of any district court, cannot, on the day of
the first adjournineiit, safely go to trial for the want of a material witness
in the cause,wlunn he shallinune,and thinks he can produce oniifuturc
day, and shall file' an ailldavit thereof with tliejiidge, then tliejiidge may
adjourn the trial to any future day, not more than thirty days from the
day of such adjournment, on payment oi‘ the costs by the party who
makes application for the same. (a)

36. That all adjournments shall be made to some hour between the
hours of nine o'clock in the forenoon and three o‘clock in the afternoon,

both inclusive, unless the respective parties mutually agree that the cause
be adjourned to some other hour.
37. That if the defendant ﬁle his set-off on the day to which the hearing
shall be ﬁrst adjourned, he shall then consent to an adjournment of said
hearing if the plaintifff request the same, and shall also pay the witness fees
of said plaintifff for that day.
38. That in every action it shall and may be lawful for either of the
parties, alter the defendant has appeared, or put in his plea to such action,
and before the saidjudge has proceeded to inquire into the merits of the
cause, to demand a trial hyjiiry, which the said judge is hereby required
to grant, and thereupon a veiiire shall be issued to sninmoii a jury of six
men, and no more, if the debt, demand or matter in dispute do not
exceed the sum of ﬁfty dollars, Oi‘ a jury of twelve men, if the debt,
demand or matter in dispute exceed the sum or value of ﬁfty dollars, being
citizens of this state, above the age of twenty-one years, and under the
age of sixty-ﬁve years, and in no wise akin to the plaintiti‘ or defendant
nor interested in the suit, to be and appear before the said judge at such
time and place as shall be expressed in the venire, to make a jury for the
trial of the action between the parties mentioned therein; and the con
stable shall, at the return of the said venire, return, annexed thereto, a

Hour of
sdjournments.

Adjournment in
case set-oil‘ ﬂied.

Trial by Jury may
be demanded.

Number ofjurors.

Qualiﬁcation oi
jurom.

Return of names
of Jurors.

panel containing the names of the jurors whom they shall have summoned
by virtue thereof; and if, on the return of the venire, it shall appear that
(a) A wrongful refusal oi‘ an adjournrnent, wherveb a party
had been prevented from procuring his wiinesses an making

defense on the merits, is an error remediahie on appeal. Huina
v. Roebuck, 18 Vr. 227.

DISTRICT COURTS.

1222

one or more of the jurors are disqualiﬁed to serve, or do not appear, then

it shall be lawful for the constable who served the same, by order of the
court, immediately to summon others who shall serve in their stead. (a)
39. That to the jurors and each of them who shall be returned to try
the said causes as aforesaid, the said c_lerk shall administer the following
Form of oath to
jurors.

To witness.

oath or aﬂirmation :
“ You do swear, in the presence of Almighty God (or do aﬂirm, as the
case may require), that you will well and truly try the matter in difference
between
, plaintiﬂ‘, and
,defendant, and a true verdict give,
according to evidence.”
That to every witness produced at the said trial, the said clerk shall
administer the following oath or afﬁrmation :
“ You do swear, in the presence of Almighty God (or do aﬂirm, as the
case may require), that the evidence you shall give to the court and jury
in this matter in difference between

, plaintifff, and

, defendant,

shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.”
And that to the constable who shall he appointed to attend thejury,
To constable.

the said clerk shall administer the following oath or affirmation :
“ lou do swear, in the presence of Almighty God (or do affirm, as the
case may require), that you will, to the utmost of your ability, keep every
person sworn (or aﬂirmed) on this jury, together in some private or con
venient place, without meat or drink, water excepted; that you will not

Penalty when
juror shall refuse

to serve or witness
I0 attend.

suffer any person to speak to them, nor speak to them yourself, except by
order of the court, unless it be to ask them whether they have agreed on
their verdict, until they have agreed on their verdict.”
40. That every person summoned as a juror or subpoenaed as a witness,
who shall not appear. or, appearing. shall refuse to serve or give evidence
in any such action shall forfeit and pay for every such default or refusal,
unless some reasonable cause be assigned, such ﬁne not exceeding twenty
dollars, nor less than one dollar, as the said judge shall think proper to
impose; and such judge is hereby authorized and required to issue an exe
cution directed to any constable of the said county, to levy the same of the
goods and chattels of the offender, which ﬁne, when

recovered, shall be

applied by the said judge to the use of the said city.
If defendant has
ﬁled set-oﬂ‘,
plaintlﬂ not to
withdraw suit.

Proviso.

41. That if the defendant have ﬁled an offset, the plaintifff shall not be
permitted to withdraw his suit, nor shall any judgment of non-suit or dis
continuance be entered without the consent of the defendant, but the case

shall be heard on motion of the defendant, if the plaintifff neglect or refuse
to move the same, and if it shall appear upon evidence produced by the
defendant that the plaintifff is actually indebted to the defendant, judgment
shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for the amount found due him;
provided, such defendant have ﬁled an affidavit with the judge at the time
of ﬁling his offset, that the offset is not ﬁled for the purpose of delay, and
that he verily believes he does not owe the plaintifff anything, but that the
plaintifff is indebted to him in a certain sum which shall be stated in the

Proof by aﬂidavlt
of book account.

aﬁidavit.
_
42. That whenever the nature of the plaintiﬂ"s demand is such that his
book or account of original entries would be competent evidence, and the
defendant does not appear at the hearing, or, if appearing, does not require
the production of said book or account, a copy of the entries therein, so

far as they relate to the plaintiﬁ"s demand, together with a statement of

Prov lso

the credits or allowances, if any, to which the defendant is entitled, shall
be received in evidence, with the same effect as if the plaintifff’s books or
accounts were produced and proved; provided, such copy and statement
be accompanied by an aﬂidavit or aﬂidavits, setting forth that the copy is
a true copy of said original entries, and that all the credits and allowances
to which the defendant is entitled appear on such statement. or in case the
defendant is not entitled to any, then setting forth that the defendant is
not entitled to any credits or allowances, and that the sum of money or

balance claimed by the plaintifff is justly due and owing to him.
(a) See Clayton v. Clark-,26 Vr. 539.

Raphael v. Lam',‘Z7 Vr. 108.

DISTRICT COURTS.

1223

43. That where a copy of said entries may be used by the plaintifff, it
shall be competent to prove any partnership by affidavit.
44. That in actions upon promissory notes, bills of exchange, checks,
drafts, or other written contracts, whether simple or under seal, for the
payment of money only, if the defendant does not appear at the hearing,

or if he appear and consent thereto, the plaintifff may prove his case by
affidavit; the affidavit or aﬂldavits shall contain a copy of the writing or
writings sued on, and shall set forth and aver such facts and circumstances
as would warrant a recovery in case such facts and circumstances were
proved by witnesses.
45. That in all cases in which proof is made by atlldavit, it must
appear by affidavit that the afliant or afﬁants have competent knowledge
of the fact or facts sworn to, and in actions upon promissory notes, bills of
exchange, checks, draﬂs or other written contracts, simple or under seal,
for the payment of money only, such notes, bills, checks, drafts or other
contracts must be produced at the hearing or their non-production
accounted for by aflldavit.

46. That if the jury disagree, other writs of venire may issue in the
same cause until a verdict is obtained.

K

Proof of partner
ship.
'
Proof by afﬂdavit
of notes.

What aiﬁdavlt
shall contain.

Proceedings
where proof made
by aﬂldnvit.

Disagreement of
jury.

V. Judgments.

47. That if the plaintiﬁ‘, other than executors or administrators in any
action shall be non-suited or shall discontinue or withdraw his action,
without the consent of the defendant, where he may lawfully do so, then
judgment shall be given against such plaintifff for the costs which have
accrued, or if such plaintifff shall appear to owe, or be indebted to the
defendant, then judgment shall be given against him for the debt, -or
damages and costs, as the case may require.
48. That ifjudgment by confession shall be entered against the defend
ant, unless an affidavit shall ﬁrst be made by the plaintifff, his attorney,
or agent, of the true consideration of the bill, bond, deed, note or other
instrument of writing or demand for which the judgment is confessed,
which atlldavit shall further set forth that the debt or demand for which
the judgment is confessed isjustly and honestly due and owing to the per
son or persons to whom the judgment is confessed, and that the said judg
ment is not confessed to answer any fraudulent intent or purpose, or to
protect the property of the defendant from his other creditors (which affi
davit shall be ﬁled and preserved by the said judge), suchjudgment shall
not operate or have any eﬂ'ect against any person or persons not parties in
said action, but shall be binding and have its full effect so far as relates to
the parties in the suit only.

when judgment
shall be given

against plaintifff.

Ailidavit on judg
ment by con

fession.

49. [Repealed by Sec. 200, post.
50. [Amended by Sec. 194, post.
VI. Execution.

51. That when judgment shall be given against the plaintifff or defend
ant, by virtue of this act, the said judge shall grant execution there

upon, commanding the constable to levy and make the debt, or damages
and costs, of the goods and chattels of the party ; and in the cases herein
after speciﬁed, for want of sufficient goods and chattels whereon to levy
and make the same, to take the body of such party and convey him to the
jail of the county ; provided, that no execution shall issue against the body
of any female; and provided, also, that when judgment shall be obtained
against executors or administrators, execution shall issue thereon in the
same manner as it is issued against them in the other courts of law of this
state.
52. That an execution against the body shall be granted only in the
following cases :

Execution, when
granted.

\\'hsn body may

be taken.

Proviso.
Proviso.

\\'hen execution
shall be granted

against the body.

1224

When judgment
ls rendered ln case
of tort.

Where no war
rant has issued in
an action founded
on contract.

Order of judge for
execution.

DISTRICT COURTS.
I. Where a warrant in the nature of :1 capias ad respondendum has
issued upon an order made in accordance with the provisions of the nine
teenth section of this act, and such order has not been set aside, or, if set
aside, has been subsequently approved by a justice of the supreme court;
II. \Vhere no warrant in the nature ofa capias ad respondendum having
been issued for the same cause of action, due proof is made on oath or
affirmation, to the satisfaction of the judge, that the defendant, at the time
when execution is applied for, is not a freeholdcr in the county where the
same shall be issued, and judgment has been rendered in an action of tort;
III. Where no warrant in the nature of a capias ad respondendum has
issued for the same cause of action, and the action being founded upon con
tract, expressed or implied, due proof is made to the satisfaction of the
judge, by affidavit or aﬂidavits, ﬁled as aforesaid, establishing the particu
lars speciﬁed in the ﬁrst subdivision of the eighteenth section of this act,
or establishing that the defendant has rights or credits, monies or effects,
either in his own possession or in the possession of any other person or
persons, to his use, of the value of ten dollars or over, which he unlawfully
and fraudulently refuses to apply in payment of such judgment.

53. That if the requirements of the next preceding section have been
complied with, the judge shall make and subscribe an order that execution

Effect of order to

issue against the goods and chattels of the defendant, and, for want of suf
ﬁcient goods and chattels, against the body, whereupon execution may
issue in accordance with such order as directed in section ﬁfty-one of
this act.
54. That except where previous application has been made and passed
upon under the twentieth section of this act, the defendant may, at any
time after order made under the ﬁfty-third section of this act, apply to any
one of the persons to whom he may apply under said twentieth section, to
set aside said order so far as it authorizes the taking of the body, the de
fendant having ﬁrst given reasonable notice to the plaintifff of such applica
tion; and if such person to whom application is made shall deem the proofs
made insufiicicnt to warrant the issuing of process against the body, he may
make order that the order of the judge, so far as it authorizes the taking of
the defcndant’s body, be set aside. [Sec Sec. 197, post]
55. That such order shall bc delivered to the judge, who shall ﬁle the
same with the other papers in the cause, and who shall furnish certiﬁed
copies thereof to the defendant or his agent, on request.
56. That the order, from the time of the ﬁling thereofwith thejudge.

Bét aside.

shall operate to discharge the defendant from arrest or imprisonment, if

How defendant
may apply to

have execution
set aside.

Order to be ﬁled.

arrested or imprisoned, or, if not, from liability to arrest or imprisonment

Liability not to be

incurred by
oﬂlcer.

Service oforder,
elfect.

Judge shall

furnish defendant
certiﬁed copy of

order, dtc.

in the suit in which the order was made, and shall have no other or further
operation.
57. That no constable. jailer, warden, or other officer or person taking
or detaining the body of the defendant in pursuance of the warrant men
tioned in the eighteenth section of this act, or in pursuance of the writ
of execution, shall incur any liability whatsoever for any act done or com
mitted pursuant to the commands of the writ, in or about such taking or
detention, prior to service upon him of a copy of the order of the justice
of the supreme court, law judge or commissioner, certiﬁed by the judge of
the district court with whom such order is ﬁled.
58. That service of said order upon the person in whose custody the
defendant may be shall warrant the immediate discharge of such defendant
from arrest or imprisonment under said writ.
59. That the judge shall furnish to the defendant, or his agent, on
request, a certiﬁed copy of the order and atiidavit or aﬂidavits upon which
the warrant or execution against the body issued or may issue; and such
copy may be used before the justice of the supreme court, law judge or
commissioner, who may make order thereupon in the same manner as if
the original order and affidavit or aﬂidavits were produced before him
[See Sec. 197, post]

1225

DISTRICT COURTS.
60. That where a judge of any district court has made_ an order pur
suant to the nineteenth section or to the ﬁfty-second section of this act,
and application has been made in the ﬁrst instance to a justice of the
supreme court to set the order aside, if the justice refuse to do so, the
defendant shall not be permitted to renew his application; but if such
application has been made in the first instance to a law judge or commis

When second ap

plication to set
aside order may
be made.

sioner, who either makes or refuses to make such order, then either party

may, on notice to the other party, within six days after such order has been
made or refused, apply to a justice of the supreme court, to review the
action of the law judge or commissioner; such justice of the supreme
court may, in his discretion, modify or set aside the order of the law judge
or commissioner, and make such other order in reference to the taking or
retaking of the defendant's body, either on the warrant or on an execution
issued or that may be issued, as the nature of the case may justify or
re uire, and the order of such justice shall be ﬁnal. [See Sec. 'l9T,post.]
1. That if any defendant shall appear at the return of the summons or
warrant, or by consent without process, or on the day that judgment shall
be rendered, or before the issuing of execution, whether the suit has been

Confession of
judgment and

slay ofexecution.

defended or not, and procure a good and suﬁicient freeholder, resident in

the county, to join with such defendant in a confession ofjudgment, to
the adverse party, with costs, then if the judgment shall not be more than
ﬁfteen dollars nor less than ﬁve dollars, no execution shall issue until after

one month from the time of rendering such judgment; and when the judg
ment shall exceed ﬁfteen and not exceed sixty dollars, no execution shall
issue until after three months from the time of rendering such judgment;
and when the judgment shall exceed sixty dollars no execution shall issue
until after six months from the time of rendering such judgment.
62. That where a suit shall be brought upon any judgment recovered
before a. judge of any district court, and judgment rendered in favor of the
plaintifff, no stay of execution shall be allowed thereon; provided, the time
hereinbefore limited for stay of execution upon such sum shall have ex
pired since the date of the ﬁrst judgment, and if not, such further stay of
execution shall be allowed as, with the time already passed since the date
of the ﬁrst judgment, will make up the time allowed for stay of execution
on such sum, as is directed by the preceding section of this act.
63. That the constable who, by virtue of such execution, levies on
any goods and chattels, shall give notice by advertisements, signed by
himself, and put up in three of the most public places in the township
where they were taken, of the time and place they will he exposed to sale,
at least ﬁve days before the time appointed for selling them, and therein
describe the goods and chattels so taken ; and shall, at the time and place
so appointed, expose them to sale by public vendue and strike them off to
the highest bidder, and pay the money thence arising to the plaintifff, or,
in case of his absence, to the clerk, and within thirty days from the time
he shall receive the execution, make return to the clerk who issued the
same, of the proceedings had thereon,and the said clerk shall make a
record thereof. [See Sec. 201, posh]
64. That in all cases where any constable shall, by virtue of any writ
of execution or attachment issuing out of this court, levy on, attach or
take into his possession any goods or chattels which shall be claimed
by notice in writing, delivered to said constable, by any other person
than the defendant, he shall, immediately upon such claim, delay his
sale of the same for the space of ten days, that the said claimant may,
within the said term, apply to the judge of the district court within or near
the township where such goods or chattels were so seized, for a venire to
summon a jury of six lawful men as jurors, to try the right of such claim
ant to said property; and it shall be lawful for such judge of said district
court to issue the same, and direct a return thereof to be to him made, and
to proceed therein as in other cases of trial by jury ; but the claimant shall,
in all cases, give notice in writing to the plaintifff of the time and place of
the said trial; but if the said claimant shall not,within ten days, apply to
said judge and have his right tried as aforesaid, the said claim shall be

When suit on
Judgment, stay of
execution not
allowed.
Proviso.

Sale under
execution.

Manner of sale.

Return of
constable.

Proceedings on
claim of propertv.

How right of

property tried.

1226

DISTRICT COURTS.
considered abandoned, and the constable shall proceed as if it had not
been made. [See Sec. 202, post]

Effect ofand pro
ceedings after
verdict.

Costs to be taxed
by the clerk.

65. That the verdict of such jury shall protect the said constable from
any action for taking and seizing such property, or delivery thereof to the
claimant; and if the said property shall he found to belong to said claim
ant, the said constable shall proceed no further with the same; but if it
shall be found to belong to the defendant, he shall proceed to dispose of
the same, as is directed in such process; and the costs attending such trial
shall be taxed by the clerk of said district court as in other cases, and
shall be paid by the plaintiﬁ' at whose suit the said property was taken
and seized, if the said claimant obtain a verdict in his favor; and by such

Proviso.

When body of
person may be
committed to
common Jail.

Sheriﬂ to be
responsible in
case of escape.

Execution may
issue without a
revival ofjudg
xnent.
Proviso.

Service of notice
to issue execution.

Execution against
goods, &c.,to be in

iorce for one year
irom issue.

Alias and pluriea
executions.

claimant if the verdict is found against him; provided, that if the plaintifff,
upon notice being given to him as aforesaid, shall indemnify the constable
against the demand of the claimant, then he shall suspend any further
proccedings therein, and proceed to sell.

66. That for want of goods and chattels whereon to levy, the said con
stable shall, when execution is issued against the body, according to the
tenor of the said execution, take the body of the person against whom the
said execution is issued and convey and deliver him to the keeper of
the common jail of the county, who is hereby commanded to keep such
person in safe custody in the common jail aforesaid, until the debt or
damages, with costs, be fully paid, or until he be thence delivered by due
course of law; and the said constable shall at the same time deliver to
the said jailer a copy of said execution, and shall take said jailer's receipt
upon the execution and return the same to the clerk who issued it, who
shall make a record thereof in his docket; and if the said keeper shall
suﬁ‘er such person so committed to his custody to go or to be at large out
of said jail, except by virtue of some writ of habeas corpus or by virtue of
the order mentioned in the ﬁfty-seventh section of this act, before the said
debt or damages, with costs, be paid,0r he be thence delivered by and
in due course of law, then every such going or being out of the said jail
shall be an escape, for which the sheriff shall be responsible to the plaintifff
to the amount of the debt or damages and costs for which such person
shall be committed, to be recovered by the said plaintifff, with costs, by
action of debt.
67. That execution may issue without a revival of the judgment by
scire facias at any time within twenty years from its recovery, if the clerk,
by successive appointments or otherwise, continues so long in ofﬁce ; pro
vided, that if more than six years have elapsed since the recovery of the
judgment, a. special order of the judge shall be necessary before the execu
tion issue, to be made upon ten days’ notice to the defendant of the appli
cation therefore, and proof to the satisfaction of the judge of the amount
remaining dueupon the judgment.
68. That the notice required by the last preceding section may be served
upon the defendant personally, either within or without this state, or, in
case he resides within this state, may be served by leaving a copy at his
residence, in the presence of some person of the family of the age of four
teen years, who shall be informed of the contents.
69. That every execution which shall or may be issued by any clerk of
any district court, upon any judgment rendered in pursuance of this act,
shall be in full force and operation against the goods and chattels levied on
for the term of one year from the time of issuing the same, unless sooner
satisﬁed; and all executions which shall remain unsatisﬁed for the space
of one year thereafter shall be null and void; but the plaintifff may there
upon have a subsequent execution or executions, which shall continue in
force and operation and become void in like manner.
70. That upon the return of the original execution unsatisﬁed, the clerk
who issued the same shall have power and authority to issue an alias
execution, and upon the return of the alias unsatisﬁed, the said clerk may
issue a pluries execution, which said writs may be levied on the goods and
chattels of the defendant, and shall be made returnable and be in all things

executed in like manner as the original execution. [See Sec. 219, p0st.]

DISTRICT COURTS.
71. That where one or more executions issued by virtue of this act
shall have been levied by one or more constables, upon the goods and

chattels of any defendant, the said executions shall have and obtain
priority according to the time of levying the same; and all surplus monies
arising upon any sale by virtue of any execution shall be paid to the
ofﬂcer or person holding the next oldest execution which shall have been
levied as aforesaid, until all executions levied upon the goods and chattels
of any defendant at the time of sale upon the ﬁrst execution be satisﬁed,
or so far satisﬁed as there shall be proceeds for that purpose, according to
their respective seniority as aforesaid; and in case two or more executions,

1227
Executions to
have priority
according to time
of levy.

Surplus money
arising upon any

sale, how applied.

at the suit of dil'l'erent plaintiﬂs, shall be levied at the same time, such

execution or executions shall have preference according to the time when
they were received, which shall be noted on each execution by the consta
ble at the time of receiving the same; and if two or more executions shall
have been delivered to a constable at the same time, against the same
defendant, then the monies arising from the sale under or by virtue of the
said executions or either of them. shall, if not suﬂicient to satisfy both or
all of them, be applied towards the satisfaction of the several executions,
in proportion to the sums due on them respectively.
72. That it shall be the duty of the constable to whom shall be delivered
any execution issued under the provisions of this act, to take an inventory
in writing, of such and so much of the property of the defendant as he
means and intends to levy upon ; which inventory and levy, and the actual
time of making the same, shall he annexed to the said execution and signed
by the said constable, under his oath of oﬁice, and shall at all times be re
ceived as evidence of the levy, and of the time of making the same, as con
templated by this act, and that the property so levied upon shall be bound
from the time of such levy, and not before.
73. That if the constable to whom any execution is delivered shall not
perform the duties, or any of them, prescribed by this act respecting such
execution, such constable shall be liable to pay to the person in whose favor
the said execution is issued, the debt or damages and costs, or any of them
mentioned therein, to be recovered by action of debt, with double costs, by
the person so as aforesaid injured thereby; and when any constable shall
have in his hands one or more executions, and not have performed the
duty required of him by law on the same, he shall be liable to be prose
cuted on such execution or executions, separately or jointly, by the person
or persons in whose favor said execution or executions were issued. who

Constable must
make inventory
ofpmperiy
levied upon.

Constable liable to
penalty for non

perforrnance of
duties.

may recover as aforesaid, in an action of debt, with double costs; and if it

shall appear that the said constable has received the money, or any part
thereof, on any execution for which a suit shall be brought, in that case he
shall pay to the plaintifff treble costs; and when any judgment shall be had
against any constable for any delinquency in his oﬁice, execution may he
issued immediately against him for debt and costs.
74. That if judgment shall be given against any body politic or corpor
ate by virtue of this act, the clerk shall grant execution thereupon against
the goods and chattels of such body politic or corporate, which may be

Execution against
corporation.

levied on and sold according to law.
VII. Docketing judgments.

75. That ﬁnal judgments of district courts in any city of this state, if

Final judgments
may be docketed.

not less than ten dollars, including costs, remaining due on such judg

ments, may he docketed in the court of common pleas of that county, in
the manner herein directed.
76. That the clerk of every court of common pleas shall provide and
keep a docket, in whiclrshall be entered, upon complying with the pro
visions of this act, all such ﬁnal judgments, if not less than ten dollars
remain due thereon, as aforesaid.

Clerk ofpleas to
provide and keep
docket.

9
128
-4

Mode ol‘docket
lngjudgments.

DISTRICT COURTS.
77. That when :1 judgment is obtained in any district; court, for an
amount not less than ten dollars, including costs and execution shall
issue thereon, and be returned by the constable to whom it has been
delivered to be executed, indorsed to the eﬂ'ect that he could not ﬁnd any
personal property of the party against whom the execution was issued on‘
which to ler_v, or that he had levied and sold goods and chattels, and had

made thereof‘ part of said judgment, and that the same was not fully satis
ﬁed, and stating the balance still unsatisﬁed, the clerk of the court of com

mon pleas oi" the county where such judgment was obtained, upon the
request of the person or persons obtaining such judgment, and upon ﬁling
in his office a transcript of the proceedings from the docket of the district
court in which such judgment was obtained, under the seal of said courtt
and signed by the clerk thereof, and a certiﬁed copy of the state of demand
and set-oﬁ' ﬁled in said action, with a certiﬁed copy of the return of the
constable, and also an oath or affirmation of the party, his or their attorney
or agent making such request, that at the time of ﬁling such transcript, a
certain amount, not less than ten dollars, is still due, stating the amount,

Operatlon of
docketed judg‘
ments.

and that he believes the debtor is not possessed of goods and chattels sum
cient to satisfy the amount due, shall enter, in the docket provided for that
purpose, the transcript of such judgment in words at length, containing
the name of the judge of the district court before whom the judgment was
obtained, the names, at length, of the parties to said judgment, the style of
the action, the date of the judgment, the amount recovered with costs, the
substance of the return of the constable, and the amount stated to be due
in the aﬁidavit. [See Sec. 256, ])0sf.]
78. That the said judgment shall, from the time of said docketing in
the court of common pleas. operate as a judgment obtained in a suit
originally commenced in said court, and

satisfaction

thereof may

be

entered in the margin ot‘ the docket in the same manner and upon the
same evidence as is now provided by law in case of judgments rendered in
the courts oi" common pleas; and the execution issued thereon shall be of
the same effect as to the property of the debtor, either ofa personal or real
nature, as if issued on a judgment originally obtained in the courts of
common pleas, upon a suit commenced therein.
Execution not lo
issue out of
district court after
docketing.

Revlval of dock
eted Judgments.

79. That after such judgment shall be docketed in the court of common
pleas, no execution shall issue thereon out of any district court, nor shall
any proceedings be had except the due and proper granting of an appeal
or certiorari.
80. That every judgment docketed as herein directed may be revived
by scire facias in the court of common pleas, in the same manner, in the»
like cases, and with the like effect, as if said judgment had been obtained

Clerk to make
alphabetical
lndex to docket.

Proceedings in
cane of nppenl or
by certlorarl.

in a suit originally commenced in that court.
81. That the clerk of the court of common pleas shall make to the
docket in which such judgments are to be entered, a complete alphabetical
index; and said docket shall be a public record, to which all persons
desiring to examine the same shall have access.
82. That if‘ any judgment recovered in any district court shall be re
moved by appeal or ccrtiorari, and the necessary bond be perfected, and
such judgment shall, either before or after such removal, be docketed as

Clerk to enter
in margln of
docket substance
ofdetermlnallon
upon appeal or
certlorarl.

herein provided, execution from the court of common pleas in which said
judgment is docketedshall be stayed and suspended until the ﬁnal deter
mination of such appeal or certiorari.
83. That if any judgment, docketed as hereinbefore p1'0\'ide(], shall be
reviewed upon certiorari or appeal, and a duly-certiﬁed transcript of the
judgment of the court wherein such appeal or certiorari may have been
determined shall be delivered to the clerk of‘ the court of common pleas of
the county where such judgment is docketed, it shall be the duty of the
said clerk to ﬁle the same in his office, and enter in the margin of the
docket opposite the entry of said judgment, in short form, the substance
of such determination upon the appeal or certiorari.

DISTRICT COURTS.
84. That judgments of the court of common pleas upon appeals from
district courts shall not affect or bind any lands, tenements. heredita
ments, or real estate, unless a rule shall he entered in the minutes of the
court of common pleas in which such judgment shall be rendered, for

1229
Entry of rule

necessary to make
judgment lien
on land.

recording such judgment, which rule shall be a rule of course, and may
be entered at any time without notice.
.
85. That it shall be the duty of the clerk of the several courts of com

mon pleas, upon the entry of such rule as aforesaid. to record any such
judgment in the book of judgments of said court, and index the same, as
now required by law respecting the judgments of sudl courts in suits
originally commenced therein. which record shall be a transcript from the
minutes of the said court on said judgment, and i'or this service the clerk

Clerk of courts of
common pleas on
entry of rule to

record judgment,
dzc.

shall be entitled to receive twenty-live cents; and such judgment shall,

from the time of entering such rule, affect and bind all lands, tenements,
hereditameuts, and real estate, within the county where such court of C0111
mon plcas is held, belonging to the person or persons against whom such
judgment may be; and executions against the goods and chattels, lands,
tenements, hereditaments, and real estate of such person or persons may
be issued out of such court of common pleas thereupon. immediately upon
the entry of such rule.
VIII.

Executions may
issue upon entry
of rule.

Certiorari.

86. That no judgment, order or proceeding to be had or made by virtue
-of this act shall be removed by writ of error, but by certiorari only.
87. That where the judge has jurisdiction, no judgment hereafter to be
rendered in any district court, from which an appeal is given to the court

J udgmsnts to be

removed by
cerllorsri only.
No certiornrl
allowed when
appeal lies.

of common pleas by this act, shall be removed into the supreme court or
‘circuit court by certiorari or otherwise. for the correction of any supposed
error therein; but the party thinking himself aggrieved shall ha\'e relief

upon the appeal only. (a)
88. That no justice of the supreme court shall grant or allow any
-certiorari to remove any judgment, order or proceeding to be had by virtue

Proceedings to

obuun certiorari.

-of this act, unless the party applying for such certiorari shall present to

the said j usticc the reasons therefore, drawn up in writing and subscribed
by himself or some attorney-at-law, and the same to be deemed by the said
justice to contain a probable cause for allowing such certiorari; and also,
unless such applicant shall enter into bond to the other party in the sum
of one hundred and ﬁfty dollars, with one or more good surety or sureties,

Applicant shsii
enier into bond.

conditioned that such applicant shall prosecute the said certiorari in the

supreme court, shall pay the sum recovered in the court below, with
interest and costs, if the judgment be aﬁirmed, and shall, in all things,

stand to and abide the judgment of the said supreme court respecting the
judgment, order or proceeding given or made by the court below ; which
said bond shall likewise be tendered to the justice granting such certiorari,

Bond to be ﬂied.

to be by him ﬁled with the. clerk of the supreme court for the beneﬁt of
the obligee therein named, and on failure thereof, no certiorari shall be

allowed. (b)
89. That such certiorari shall be determined and adjudicated upon by
the supreme court, at the ﬁrst term after due return thereof shall be made,
for be dismissed with costs, unless the said court shall think proper to
adjourn the same till the next term for further argument and advisement.

90. That if any judgment. to be given by virtue of this act, shall, on
removal by certiorari, be affirmed by the supreme court, the plaintiﬂ‘ in
certiorari shall pay to the defendant all costs arising on such suit in said
supreme court, for which the party entitled to such costs may have execu

Ceriiorari, when
to be determined.

Costs on inﬁrm
ance. but not on
reversal.

tion, to be issued out of the supreme court, against the body or goods and
(a) A piaintiﬂ‘ ﬂied a demand in debt for.%.\0, made upas
follows, vi1.., for various items s
iﬂed, amounting to 9419.66,
on which was allowed a credit o $200, and the plaintifff waived
any claim for Ql9.66.

Held, that for alleged errors in the trial

and judgment the remedy was by appeal, and the district
»court hnvin _lurisdlcti0n,a certiorariwouid not lie. Qulmby
v. Hopping,
Vr. il7. See Oohen v. Harmer, 23 Vr. 110.

(b) When the piaintiﬂ‘ in an action before a district court in

voivllll more "18" Qmoiﬂpplles for s certiornrt to review a.
udgment of non-suit rendered therein, it is not necessary for

im to tender a bond. S1/rlearv. wnarzmi, 19 vi-. 91.

1230

Provisions to
extend to circuit
courts.
Judgment. not to

be reversed for
error or mistake.

Costs when
aﬂi rmed in part
and reversed in
part.
Not to be reversed
for any irregu
larity in proceed
ings of court.

Supreme court or
circuit court may
order a rehearing.

DISTRICT COURTS.
chattels of the adverse party; but if suchjudgment be reversed,then the
plaintifff in certiorari shall not be entitled to any costs. (a)
91. That the pro\'lsi0ns of the last three preceding sections of this act
shall extend to the circuit courts in the several counties of this state.
92. That no judgment of any judge of any district court, removed by
certiorari before the supreme court or circuit court, shall be reversed in the
whole on account of any error or mistake made by thejudge by whom such
judgment may have been rendered, in the entering, calculating or awarding
of the costs of suit, but such judgment shall only be reversed so far as
respects the said-error or mistake, which error or mistake the court are
hereby empowered to correct.
.
93. That in case any judgment be so aﬂirmcd in part and reversed in
part. neither party shall pay costs in certiorari to the other.
94. That it shall not be lawful for the supreme court or circuit court to
reverse any judgment of any district court for any irregularity in the pro
ceedings of such court, unless such irregularity tends to defeat or impair
the substantial right or interest of the party in certiorari praying such
reversal.
95. That if in any cause or proceeding removed by certiorari, it shall
appear equitable and just that a rehearing thereof be had before a judge of
any district court, the supreme court or circuit court may order that such
rehearing be had upon such terms and conditions as are reasonable, and
the judge of said district court shall thereupon proceed to rchear said cause
or proceeding, and give judgment as in other cases.

IX. Costs.
Fees to clerks.

96. That in all actions which may be brought by virtue of this act, the
following and no other fees shall be allowed and paid to the clerks of said
courts:
Summ0ns,twenty-ﬁve cents ;
Each copy thereof, ten cents ;

Warrant, twenty-ﬁve cents;
Order that warrant issue, ﬁfty cents;
Entering each suit, twenty cents;
Recording return on summons, ten cents;

Recognizance, thirty-ﬁve cents;
Entering every non-suit, twenty cents;
Entering discontinuance, twenty cents;
Venire facias, thirty-ﬁve cents ;
Administering every oath or aﬁirmation, ten cents;

Subpoena for every witness, ten cents;
Swearing the jury, thirty-ﬁve cents;
Entry of every verdict, twenty cents ;

Entry of every rule of reference, ﬁfty cents;
Every copy thereof. twenty-ﬁve cents;
Entry of every judgment, twenty cents ;
Every execution, thirty-ﬁve cents;
Recording return of execution, ﬁfteen cents ;

Drawing, signing and scaling return of certiorari, one dollar ;
Copy of docket or of any proceeding or paper, per folio, ﬁfteen cents ;

Transcript of judgment, ﬁﬂzy cents ;
Entering suit without process, lifty cents;

'

Filing each paper requiring to be ﬁled, ten cents ;

Issuing commission to take deposition, twenty-ﬁ\'e cents ;
Recording return of commission, one dollar and ﬁfty cents ;
Entering particulars of costs, ﬁfteen cents;
Every affidavit, twenty-ﬁve cents;
(a) On a reversal in the supreme court of a judgment of the district court, the piaintiﬂ in cm-Lwrari is not eui.ltie.i Lu mils
Scabury v. Johnson & Boiler, 23 Vr. 413.

DISTRICT COURTS.

1231

Every adjournment, twenty cents;
Hearing every contested case, seventy-ﬁve cents;
Hearing case not contested, twenty-ﬁve cents;

Granting appeal and sending up transcript and papers, ﬁfty cents ;
Recording description of each paper offered in evidence, seven cents;
Approving bond, ﬁfty cents;
Taking deposition, per folio, ﬁfteen cents;
Scire facias, thirty-ﬁve cents;
CONSTABLES.

Serving every summons on one defendant, sixty cents;

1-e,,,,,,,c,,,,,,,,,,,,e,_

And for service thereof on every additional defendant in the same sum
mons, thirty cents;
Serving every warrant, against one or more persons, for each person,
seventy-ﬁve cents ;

Serving every scire facias, against one or more persons, for each person,
sixty cents;
Serving every subpoena, thirty-ﬁve cents;
Summoning every jury of six men, seventy-ﬁve cents;
Summoning every jury of twelve men, one dollar;
Attending jury until agreed on their verdict. ﬁfty cents;
Serving every execution, seventy-ﬁve cents;
In addition to which, three cents on each dollar secured to the plaintifff;
Advertising property under execution, thirty-ﬁve cents ;
Selling property under execution, ﬁfty cents ;
For ever copy of an execution ﬁled with the jailer, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For every mile of travel in serving any summons or warrant issued by a
judge of any district court, aﬂzer the ﬁrst mile the distance to be computed
by counting the number of miles in and out, by the most direct route from
the place where such process is issued and returnable, four cents;
JURORS.

For all cases tried, twenty-ﬁve cents a man ;
'
When summoned to attend, and cause not tried, ﬁfteen cents a man ;

PM wJ11r<>r=~

WITNESSES.

For their services under sections one hundred and seven and one hun- 'l‘<>Wl1ns=w=

dred and eight of this act, ﬁﬁay cents;
For all other services the same fees as are or shall be allowed in causes

before the court of common pleas; provided, that no fees shall be allowed
for the service of any subpoenas for more than two witnesses, nor shall fees

be allowed to more than two witnesses for each party in a cause. [See
Sec. 259, post]
97. That on all appeals as aforesaid, heard and determined in the court Feﬂonlvneah
of common pleas, the following and no other fees shall be allowed:

counrs.
Every appeal heard, ﬁfty cents ;

Courts.

crlnnus.
Entering action and ﬁling bond and ti-anscript,',ﬁfty[cents;
Every subpmna, ten cents;
Enteringjudgment, ten cents ;

Clerks

1232

DISTRICT COURTS.
Every witness sworn or aﬂirmed, ten cents ;
Every order or rule of court, or of a judge, ten cents;
Every execution, forty cents;
Entering and ﬁling execution, twenty cents;
Calling and swearing a jury, twenty cents ;
Taking and entering verdict, ten cents ;
Docketing judgment and ﬁling transcript and aﬁidavit, seventy-ﬁve cents;
SHERI I-‘F.

Sheriff.

Making and returning a list ofthe jury, twenty cents:
CUNSTABLES.

Constables.

Serving every subpoena, thirty-ﬁve cents;
Attendingjury, ﬁfty cents;
CRIERS.

Crlers.

Every appeal, ten cents;
Calling and swearing each witness, ﬁre cents ;
Calling jury, ten cents ;
TO 'rHE'JUn0Rs.

Jurors.

The same fees as are allowed in other cases in the court of common

pleas.
JUDGE OR COMMISSIONER.

Judge or oom

mlssloner.

Who to pay jury

of twelve men.

Supreme court justice, law judge or commissioner, for hearing applica
tion to set aside order, one dollar.

98. That when the plaintifff in any action of debt shall demand a jury
of twelve men, and such jury shall ﬁnd a sum in favor of the plaintiffl',
not exceeding ﬁfty dollars and not less than ten dollars, then the plaintifff,
shall pay one-half of the costs of‘ the jury; and if the sum found by such
jury in favor of the plaintifff‘ be less than ten dollars, then the plaintifff
shall pay the whole cost of the jury.

Ofslx men.

Officers‘ fees to be
pald before
service requlrecl.

Appeal not to be

allowed until
costs are paid.

l-‘ees in first
lnstance to be
paid by appellant.

99. That when the plaintifff in an action of debt shall demand a jury of
six men, and such jury shall ﬁnd a sum in favor of the plaintifff, under
ten dollars, the plaintifff shall pay the whole cost of‘ the jury.
100. That no constable or other officer authorized to serve a subpwna,
summons or other mesne process issued out of any district court, shall be
required to serve such process until his legal fees and mileage for so doing
shall have been paid to the officer of whom such service is required.
101. That no appeal from the judgment of a judge of any district court
shall be allowed until the party applying for the same shall, in addition to
the matters now required by law, pay to said judge or clerk all costs incurred
by him except such as shall be adjudged to the prevailing party.
102. That the fee of the court for hearing the appeal and the fees of
the clerk for entering the action and ﬁling the bond and transcript, shall
be paid in the ﬁrst instance by the appellant; if he refuse to pay the same
before the hearing, the court shall, on application to the clerk, refuse to
hear such appellant, and the appellee, if‘ he will pay the same, may move
the court to make, and the court may thereupon make, such disposition of
the case as if the appellant failed to appear and prosecute his appeal.

DISTRICT COURTS.

1233

X. Amendment of defects and errors.

103. That in order to prevent the failure of justice by reason of mistakes
and objections of form. it shall be lawful for the judge of any district court
or the court of common pleas, on an appeal taken thereto, at all times, to
amend all defects and errors in any proceeding in civil causes, whether
there is anything in writing to amend by or not, and whether the defect or
error be that of the party applying to amend or not, and all such amend
ments may be made with or without cost, and upon such terms as to the
court or judge may seem ﬁt; and all such amendments as may be neces
sary for the purpose of determining in the existing suit the real question in
controversy between the parties shall be so made. (a)

104. That if any objection be made before the judge by either party, in
any cause, upon the return day or upon the trial or hearing of the same,
to any process or pleading in respect to any matter which might be amended
by the judge under the provisions of said section of said act, and no such
amendment shall be made before the conclusion of the trial or hearing,
then it shall not be in the power of the court of common pleas on the trial
of the appeal, to amend or to order amended the said process or pleading
in respect of any of the matters to which such objections shall relate or
were made.

105. That if the constable’s return to any summons or warrant be de
fective, and such constable has, in point of fact, complied with all the re

quirements of this act in serving such writ, whether the defendant appears
or does not appear. and whether he objects or does not object, such con
stable may amend his return in such manner as to make it conform to the
fact ; provided, he do so on or before the return day.

Judge may amend

defects and errors
in proceedings in

clvll causes.

Amendment not

to be made if
there are objec
tlons.

Constable may
amend defective
return to sum
mons or warrant.

Pro vlso.

XI. References.

106. That in every suit to be instituted before any judge of any district
court by virtue of this act, and in every appeal to be made before any
court of common pleas, it shall and may be lawful for suchjudge of any
district court or court of common pleas, as the case may be, with the assent
and at the request of the parties, to enter rules of reference of the matters
in difference, to such person or persons as the parties shall choose, and to
insert such their agreement in their submission, or the condition of the
bond or promise, whereby they oblige themselves respectively to submit
to the award or umpirage of any person or persons; which agreement
being so made and inserted in their submission, or promise, or condition of
their respective bonds, shall or may. upon producing an affidavit thereof,
made by the witnesses thereunto, or any one of them, and reading and

Reference may be
ordered upon cer

tnln conditions.

Aﬂldavlt to be
entered of record.

ﬁling the said atﬁdavit in court, be entered of record in said court, and a

rule shall thereupon be made by said court that the parties shall submit to
and ﬁnally be concluded by the arbitration or umpirage which shall be
made concerning them by the arbitrators or umpire pursuant to such sub
mission; and in case of disobedience to such arbitration or umpirage, the
party refusing or neglecting to perform and execute the same or any part
thereof, shall be subject to all the penalties of contemning a rule of court,

Proceedings ln
case ol‘dlsobedl
ence to arbitra
tlon.

when he is a suitor or defendant in such court, and the court, on motion,

shall issue process accordingly, which process shall not be stopped or
delayed in its execution by any order. rule, command or process of any
other court, either of law or equity, unless it shall be made to appear, on
oath or afﬁrmation to such court, that such arbitrators or umpire misbe
haved themselves, and that such award,arbitration or umpirage was pro
cured by corruption or other undue means :
the defendant The record was remitted to the common pleas
Mubcahy v.
New Jersey Trucllon 00., % Yr. 345.

(a) The common pxnslmproperlygave jud menton the trial
of n ease on appeal
m the dlstrlct court " t at the judgment
of the court below be nlﬂrgned," Instead ofglvlngjudgment for

for correction and entry of a proper judgment.

78

1234
When to be
deemed void.

Report or award
of referee, if eon
ﬂrmed, to be ﬁnal
and conclusive.

DISTRICT COURTS.
I. Any arbitration or umpirage procured by corruption or undue means,
shall be judged and esteemed void and of none effect, and accordingly be

set aside by the court, so as complaint of such corruption or undue prac
tice be made in the court where the rule is made for submission to such
arbitration or umpirage;
II. Whenever a cause shall be referred by rule of court to referees, the
report or award oi‘ such referees, or of the major part of them, if conﬁrmed
by the court, shall be ﬁnal and conclude the parties; and if any sum be
thereby found for the plaintiff or plaintifffs, judgment shall be entered and
execution issued for the same with costs; and if the referees, or the major

part of them, report any sum to be due to the defendant or defendants, and
the report be conﬁrmed, then judgment shall be entered, and execution
against the plaintifff or plaintiffs for the sum so reported to be due to such
defendant or defendants, with costs ;
_
Referee shall take
oath or ai‘Brma
tion.

III. In every cause referred by rule of court, each referee shall, before

he proceeds to the business of the reference, take an oath or affirmation
faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the cause in question, and make
a just and true report according to the best of his skill and understanding ;

Arbitrator to take
oath.

Referees may
examine witnesses
under oath.
Compensation to
referee.

Subpoenas to wit
nesses to issue.

Penalty for refusal
of witness.

which oath or affirmation anyjudge of any court of record of this state is
hereby authorized and required to administer ;
IV. In all cases of arbitration, every arbitrator shall, before he proceeds
to the business submitted to him, take an oath or ailirmation of the like
nature with that hereinhefore prescribed to be taken by referees, and to be
administered in like manner;
V. In every cause referred by rule of court, process of subpoena may
issue out of said court to convene witnesses before the referees, and the said
witnesses shall be examined on oath or afﬁrmation; which oath or affirma
tion the referees in the said cause are hereby authorized to administer ; and
there shall be allowed to every such referee one dollar for every day neces
sarily spent in the business of the reference, besides a reasonable allowance
for his expenses, which in the ﬁrst instance shall be paid by the prevailing
party, and shall afterwards be allowed to such party in the taxation of
costs where costs are recoverable. .
VI. In all cases of arbitration, it shall be lawful for any judge of any dis
trict court within the city wherein such arbitration may be to issue sub
poena for witnesses, to appear before the arbitrator or arbitrators, and for
him or such arbitrator or arbitrators to swear or affirm such or any other
witnesses before the same; and if any such witness does not appear when
so subp(1.>naed,or, if appearing, shall refuse to be sworn or affirmed and
give evidence, he shall be liable to the same ﬁnes and penalties as he would
be by law for snob default or refusal, if committed in any court of record
of this state.
XII. Depositions.

When and by
whom depositions
may be taken.

Proviso.

107. That if a material witness in an action, instituted in any district
court, be in the state, but is ancient or very inﬁrm, or is sick, or is bound
on a voyage, or is about to go out of the state, the deposition of such wit
ness may,at the option of either party, be taken before a clerk of any
district court or before any master in chaneery; provided, the person at
whose request the deposition is to be taken, shall cause notice to be given
to the adverse party of the time and place, and before whom the deposition
shall be taken, immediately, or at such short day as the cause in the
opinion of the said judge may require, to attend and be present at the
taking thereof, and to put questions and cross-examine if he shall think
ﬁt; and a deposition so taken and offered in evidence shall be subject to
the same rules and exceptions that the witness would be if personally

p resent.
108. That every person deposing as last aforesaid shall be carefully
Man ner of taking
depositions.

examined and cautioned, and sworn or affirmed, to testify the whole truth,

and shall subscribe the testimony by him or her given, after the same shall

DISTRICT COURTS.

1235 be reduced to writing, which shall be done only by the clerk of said court,
or master in chancery taking the deposition, or by the deponent in his
presence, and the deposition so taken shall be retained by such clerk or
master in chancery until he deliver the same, with his own hand, into the
court for which it was taken, or shall be by him, the said clerk or master
in chancery, sealed up, directed and transmitted to such court, and remain

under his seal until opened in court, and when so opened the same shall
be deposited in the district court in which the action shall be brought,
there to remain on record, and that either of the parties in the said action
or suit may, at his or her cost and charges, take copies of such deposition
as soon as it is deposited in the court as aforesaid :
I. Ifa material witness in any action or proceeding in any district court
of any city in this state reside out of this state, it shall be lawful for any
judge thereof, on proof thereof to the satisfaction of the said judge, and on
such terms as said judge may direct, to award and issue, under the seal of
the court, a commission to such person or persons as the judge may think
ﬁt, authorizing such person or persons, or any two or more of such persons
to examine de bene esse the said witness, on oath or affirmation ;
ll. The name of every witness to be examined by virtue of such com
mission shall be inserted in the said commission; and the interrogatories
for the examination of such witness shall be drawn and signed by the
parties or their attorneys in the cause in which the testimony is to be used,
or such of the_m as shall request the said commission, and be approved of
by the judge and shall be annexed to the commission ; and each party shall
be at liberty, with the approbation of the said judge, to insert in the said
interrogatories such questions as he or she may think proper or necessary.
III. A party intending to apply for a commission to examine a witness
or witnesses in any cause, shall give eight days’ notice of such application

Judge may award

commission to
examine wit
nesses.

Interrogatories to

be approved and
annexed to the
commission.

Notice to be given
of application for
commission,

and of the name or names of the witnesses to be examined, and of the
place of his, her or their residence, and also the name or names of the

person or persons whom the party applying intends to nominate as com
missioner or commissioners ; and shall serve therewith a copy of the inter
rogatories intended to be annexed to the said commission, in order that
the adverse party may examine the same and submit cross-interrogatories
if he think proper; the notice mentioned in this section shall be served on
the attorney when the party appears by attorney ;
IV. The issuing of the commission may be ordered and the interroga
tories may be approved upon shorter notice than is directed by the fore
going section, by consent of parties, or upon matter being made to appear
to the_ said judge to excuse the want of full notice, and that shorter notice
is necessary to prevent delay;
V. The commissioner or commissioners, or such of them as shall act,
shall, before they enter upon their duties, take an oath or affirmation faith
fully, 'i'airly and impartially to execute the said commission, which oath or
aﬂirmation may be taken before any person lawfully authorized to admin
ister an oath or affirmation in the state, territory or kingdom where the
said commissioner or commissioners reside or may be at the time;
VI. The said commissioner or commissioners shall and may examine
every witness named in the said commission, or such as can be met with,

upon the interrogatories annexed to the said commission, on oath or
affirmation, to be administered to each and every witness by the said com
missioner or commissioners, and cause the examination of each witness to
be reduced to writing and signed by such witness; and the said commis
sioner or commissioners shall also sign the same;
VII. The said commissioner or commissioners shall annex such exami
nation to the said commission, and close the same up under the hand and
seal of the said commissioner, or under the hands and seals of the said

commissioners, and direct the same to the clerk of the court out of which
the same issued at the place of holding the said court, and may place the
same in any post-oﬂice. certifying thereon the time when and the post
office in which the same may be so placed; and the clerk of the said court

when com mission
-_
_
may issue_on
shorter notice.

Commissioners to
take oath or
atﬂrmatlon.

Examination to be
reduced to writing
and signed.

Examination to be
annexed to com
mission and
returned to clerk.

1236

DISTRICT COURTS.
may take the same out of the post-office in which it may be found in this
state, and open the same, and indorse thereon when and how he received

it, and immediately ﬁle the said commission in the_ said district court. there
to remain as a record.
XIII. Clerks-their duties and dockets.
Clerk to enter in

109. That it shall be the duty of every clerk of every district court

docket all the
proceedings
touching suits.

wherein any suit shall be instituted, to enter in a book to be kept for that
purpose and to remain a record of said court, the names of the plaintifff
and defendant, the style and nature of the action, the sum demanded, the

time of issuing process and when returnable, the return made thereto by
the constable, when the copy of the account or state of the demand or set
off was delivered by the parties or either of them, the time of taking the
recognizance, of making or iiling any order, the adjournment, the rule of
reference and report of referees; the jury, when and by whom demanded ;
the venire, when issued and how returned; the time of trial, and names

of the jurors and witnesses; the admission of evidence objected to and the
rejection of evidence offered, a description of each paper offered in evidence,
the verdict and judgment, and, when given, the execution or executions,

when issued, the indorsement thereon, and how returned by the constable;
the appeal, when and by whom demanded, and all the proceedings before
said court touching the said suit; and further, it shall be the duty of
such clerk to grant to either party, when required, a certiﬁed copy of such
proceedings.
Bill of costs to be
entered in docket.

Transcript of
docket, where

term oi’ oﬁice oi’
clerk has expired,
may be used in
E vidence.

110. That it shall be the duty of the clerks of the district courts wherein
anyjudgment is rendered, to make out and enter upon his
bill of costs in the case, specifying each item and the fees
and the amount paid him by each party.
111. That every clerk of any district court whose term
expired, or may hereafter expire, or who has resigned, or

docket a full
for the same,
of office has
may hereafter

resign, shall and may, when required so to do, make out transcripts from
his (locket or dockets, under his hand and seal, and certify them as late

clerk of said district court; which said transcripts so certiﬁed shall be
used as evidence in all courts of law and equity in this state, and have the
same force and effect, and be liable to the like legal objections, as though
the said clerk was still in commission.
Docket to be de
livcrerl to suc
cessor in oﬂice in
case oi’ removal.
Clerk to have free
RCCQSQ I0 H19

docket after it is
delivered lo his
U 0093507.

112. That if any clcrk of any district court shall be at any time here
after removed from his oilicc, the docket or dockets of the said court shall
be forthwith delivered to his successor in oltlce.
113. That every clerk of said court, and his legal representatives. shall
and may at all times, after the said docket or dockets are delivered to his
successor in office as aforesaid, have free access to the same without pay
ment of any fees to the clerk therefore, to enable him to recover any costs

which may be due the said city thereon.
Penalty for refusal
to deliver docket
to successor in
oﬂice.

114. That if any clerk of said district court shall neglect or refuse to
deliver his docket or dockets to his successor in office, and in the.man

ner by this act directed. he shall forfeit and pay the sum of ﬁfty dol
lars, to be recovered by action of debt, with costs, in any court of compe

tent jurisdiction, and to be paid, when recovered, to the treasurer of the
city wherein said court may be, for the use of the city; which suit shall
be brought by the city treasurer for the use of the city.
Certiﬁed tran
script of record lo
be received in
evidence.

115. That a transcript of the record of any case entered in any docket
as aforesaid, certiﬁed to be a true transcript by said clerk, shall be received
in evidence in any court of this state, and be as good, effectual and avail

able in law as if the deposited docket were then and there produced.
Judge or constable

116. That no judge of any district court or constable shall appear and

not to prosecute or

d efend in any
0 lher district

prosecute or defend in any action before any other judge of any district

OOH II.

court, unless such judge or constable shall be one of the parties on record

Penalty for so
groseculing or
Mending.

in the cause; and any judge or constable who shall offend against the pro
visions of this section, shall forfeit the sum of ﬁfty dollars, to be recovered

DISTRICT COURTS.

1237

by action of debt, with costs of suit, in any court having cognizance
thereof, by and for the use of any person who shall prosecute for the
same; and such

suit

shall be commenced within six months after the

offense shall have been committed; provided, that nothing herein contained
shall prevent a judge from transacting the general concerns of a person
who is absent and resident without the state.
117. I. That all hills, bonds and other writings, whether sealed or not,
containing an agreement for the payment of money, shall be assignable,
and the assignee may sue thereon in his own name; but in such suit there
shall be allowed all just set-offs, discounts and defenses, not only against
the plaintifff, but also against the assignor, before notice of such assignment
shall be given to the defendant ;
II. The assignment of any sealed instrument by writing not under seal,
shall be as valid and effectual at law as if made by writing under seal ;
III. The assignee for a valuable consideration of any chose in action
heretofore or hereafter assigned, if the assignor be dead, may sue for and
recover the same in his own name ; and the defendant in any such action
may set up and avail himself of any defense thereto arising before he shall

Proviso.

Bills, bonds, &c.,
may be assigned
and sued upon.

Assignment valid

without seal.
Death of assignor

have received due notice of such assignment, in the same manner and with

the like effect as if the assignor had been living, and the action had been
brought in his name.
118. That no action now pending or hereafter to be brought in any dis
trict court of any city in this state. wherein a female is or may be a party,
shall abate by reason of the marriage of such female after suit brought;
but the action shall proceed to ﬁnal judgment in the name of such female
as plaintifff, or as defendant, as the case may be, notwithstanding such
marriage.
119. That in actions against several executors or administrators, all the
same executors or administrators shall be considered as one person, repre
senting the testator or intestate, and such of the executors or administrators
as the constable shall return summoned shall answer to the plaintifff; and
in case judgment shall pass for the plaintifff, he shall have his judgment
and execution against such of the executors or administrators as the con
stable has returned summoned, and against all others named in the writ,
of the goods and chattels of the deceased, the same as if they had all been
summoned or had appeared.

120. That in case any executor or executors have refused, or shall

Marrlnge of

female no abate
ment of action.

Actions against
executors or
administrators.
Judgment and
execution to issue.

Executor proving
will may maintain

refuse, in writing, to prove the last will and testament of any testator, and
shall ﬁle such refusal in the surrogate’s office of the proper county, the
executor or executors who have proved, or shall prove said last will and
testament, may maintain a suit at law, without joining in such suit such
executor or executors so refusing as aforesaid.

121. That whenever in describing or referring to any person, party,
matter, or thing, any word importing the singular number or masculine
gender is used in this act, the same shall be understood to include and
shall apply to several persons and parties as well as one person or party,
and females as well as males, and bodies corporate as well as individuals,
and several matters and things as well as one matter or thing, unless it be
otherwise provided, or there be something in the subject or context repug
nant to such construction.

suit.

Singular number

and masculine
gender, how con

strued.

XIV. Landlord and tenant proceedings.
122. That if any tenant, holding any lands, tenements or hereditaments,

Proceedings when

who shall be in arrear for one year’s rent, shall desert the demised prem
ises, and leave the same uncultivated or unoccupied, so as no sufficient
distress can be had to countervail the arrears of rent, it shall and may he
lawful to and for a judge of the district court in the city where said court
may be established and in which the demised premises lie, and who has no
interest in the same, at the request of the landlord or landlords, lessor or
lessors, or his, her or their bailiff or agent, to go upon and view the same,

tenant in arrear
for rent shall
desert the demised
premises.

1238

DISTRICT COURTS.
and to afiix, or cause to be afIixed,on the most notorious part of the prem
ises, notice in writing what day (at the distance of fourteen days at least),

When lease to
become void.
Proviso.

he will return to take a. second view thereof, and if, upon such second
view, the tenant, or some person in his or her behalf, shall not appear and
pay the rent in arrear, or there shall not be suﬂlcient distress upon the
premises, then the said judge may put the said landlord or landlords, lessor
or lessors, into the possession of the said demised premises, and the lease
thereof to such tenant, as to any demise therein contained, shall from
thenceforth become void ; provided always, that such proceedings of the said
judge shall be examinable in a summary way by the justi’ces of the supreme
court, who are hereby empowered to order restitution to be made to such
tenants, together with his or her expenses and costs, to be paid by the land
lord or landlords, lessor or lessors, if they shall see cause for the same;

When tenants
may be removed
for rent unpaid
or term ended.

Possession alter
expiration ofterm.

In case of default
in payment of
rent.

Landlord or
iessor's aﬂidavit.

Judge to issue
summons on re
ceiving and filing
aﬂidavlt.

and in case they shall afiirm the act of the said judges, to award costs to
be paid by such tenant, and the costs, as well in the instance of restitution
as of af.lirmance aforesaid, shall be levied and recovered against the body or
bodies, or goods and chattels, lands and tenements of such landlord or
tenant, as the case may be. (a)
123. That any tenant or lessee at will, or at sufferance, or for part of
a year, or for one or more years, of any houses, lands or tenements, and
the assignees, under-tenants or legal representatives of such tenant or
lessees may be removed from such premises by any judge of any district
court of any city within the corporate limits of which such premises are
situated, in the manner hereinafter prescribed in the following cases :
I. W'here such person shall hold over and continue in possession of the
demised premises, or any part thereof, after the expiration of his or her
term,and after demand made and notice in writing given for delivering the
possession thereof‘, by the landlord or his agent, for that purpose ;
II. Whe1'e such person shall hold over after any default in the payment
of the rent, pursuant to the agreement under which such premises are held,
and satisfaction for such rent cannot be obtained by distress of any goods,
and a demand of such rent shall have been made, by three days’ notice, in
writing, requiring the payment of such rent or the possession of the pi-em.
ises, shall have been served by the person entitled to such rent, upon the
person owing the same; the notices required in this section shall be served
either personally on the tenant by giving him a copy thereof or by leaving
a copy thereof at his usual place of abode, with some member of his family
above the age of fourteen. (b)
124. That any landlord or lessor, his legal representatives, agents or
assigns, may make oath, in writing, of the facts which, according to the
preceding section, authorize the removal of a tenant, describing therein the
premises claimed, and may present the same to any judge of any district
court of the city within the corporate limits of which the premises are
situated. (c)

125. That on receiving and ﬁling such affidavit, such judge shall issue
a summons, describing the premises of which possession is claimed, and
requiring any person in possession of said premises or claiming the pos

session thereof, forthwith to remove [from] the same, or to show cause
before the said judge, at a certain place and time to be therein speciﬁed,
not less than ﬁve nor more than ﬁfteen days from the date of such sum
mons, why possession of such premises should not be delivered to such
claimant.
Proof of termina
tion of tenancy.

126. That previous to issuing such summons in a case of tenancy at
will or at sufferance, or from year to year, thejudge shall be satisﬁed by
due proof that such tenancy has been terminated by giving three months’
notice to quit, which notice shall be deemed and taken to be sulﬁcient.

(a) District Icourts have Jurisdiction in landlord and tenant
mses where the tenant is a body corporate. Facts Pubmhtng
Co. V. Fetton, 23 Vr. 181.
(b) In cases where the tenant is a body co
rate, the statu
tory notice to pay rent tn arrearsorsurrender t e premises may
be served on any oﬂlcer or agent of a business corporation

whose duty it is, either in his oﬂicial capacity or by virtue of
his employment, to communicate the fact of such service toths
governing body of the corporation. Fuels Publishing; 0). v.

11*!-tort, 23 Vr. 181. It will he inferred, in the absence of proof
to the contrary, that a person holding the offices of aecretgyy
and treasurer n a business corporation is a proper officer to
receive such a notice on behalf of his company. I0.
(c) An aﬂidavit in a proceeding to eject a tenant in these
words, "that deponent leased said premises to S. by the
month,_t‘o 0(')'I?ID8hClH)I: the ist day of May last, at the monthly
rent
i0 ms.
s a su c ent statement of a tenancY . &.'17m‘ I _
Earl, o11 W’.

DISTRICT COURTS.
127. That the summons shall be served in the manner hereinbefore pre
scribed by this act; the suit may be adjourned and either party may
demand and have a trial by jury of twelve men. (a)

128.

That if, at the time appointed in the said summons or at the time

to which said suit may be adjourned, no sufﬁcient cause be shown to the
contrary, and it shall appear to the said judge orjury that the summons
has been duly served, the said judge shall issue his warrant to any con
stable of the county or marshal of the city or town in which the premises
are situate, commanding him to remove all persons_ from the said premises
and to put the said claimant into full possession thereof, and to levy and
make the costs out of the goods and chattels of such person or persons in
possession ;_provided, it shall be necessary for said claimant, if required by
the defendant, to prove to the satisfaction of the judge, or of thejury if
there be a trial by jury, the facts which, according to the one hundred and
twenty-third section of this act, authorize the removal of a tenant.

129. That if, upon the said trial mentioned in the next preceding sec
tion of this act, the said plaintifff shall not be able to prove, by lease or
other evidence of right of possession, his right to the possession of the said
premises claimed by him, without proving title to lands, tenements and
hereditaments, that then it shall be the duty of the saidjudge to dismiss

the said action.
130. That the proceedings had by virtue of the one hundred and twenty
third section of this act shall not be appealed from or removed by cer
tiorari; but the landlord shall remain liable in an action of trespass for
any unlawful proceedings under this act.
131. That the same fees shall be allowed and paid to the clerks of said
courts and to the constables, witnesses and jurors as are provided for like
services by this act, and the constable, for executing the process of pos
session, shall receive the sum of one dollar.

132. 'l‘hat at any time alter a summons has been issued, according to
the one hundred and twenty-ﬁfth section of this act, and before the return
thereof, either the landlord or the party in possession may apply to a
justice of the supreme court, who, ii‘ he shall deem the case of sufficient
importance, may issue an order, under his hand, directing the said judge
forthwith to ﬁle the said oath or complaint of the landlord and the other
papers appertaining to the proceedings, in the oﬂice of the clerk of the
circuit court of the county in which such proceedings were commenced,
and thereupon said circuit court shall have full and exclusive cognizance
of the case; and said court shall be always open for such purpose.
133. That immediately upon such papers being ﬁled in said clerl\"s
oﬂice, the judge of said circuit court shall cause a venire facias for a jury
to be issued, returnable into said court in not more than one week from
the time of issuing the same; and which said writ shall be served by the
sheriff or other oﬁlcer, according to the practice of said court in like

1239
Manner of service
of summons.

\\'hen judge may

issue warrant and
put claimant in
po$esslon.

Proviso.

Right oi‘ posses

sion without title
to be proved.

Proceedings not

to be appealed or
removed by cer

tiorarl.
Fees to ofﬂcers,
witnesses, due.

When circuit court
may have cogni

zance of the
proceedings.

When judge of the
circuit court shall
lmue a venire for
n Jury.

cases; and on the day of the return of the said writ the case shall be tried,

unless, for good cause shown, the said trial shall be adjourned; that said
adjournment and all other adjournments shall be for the shortest periods
practicable, and the one hundred and twenty-sixth section of this act shall
not apply to said trial.
134. That such notice of the trial shall be given as the said judge may
direct; the parties, if they agree so to do, may waive a trial by jury, and
submit the case to the judge on the law and facts.
135. That a judgment shall be entered upon the ﬁnding of the judge or
the jury, and if the same be in favor of the landlord, a writ shall issue to
the sheriff of the county, commanding him to put the landlord in full pos
session of the premises in question, and to levy and make the costs out of
the goods, chattels and lands oi‘ the person in possession; if judgment be
rendered for the defendant he shall have an execution in like manner for
his costs.
(a) Ihcla Publmhing Cb. v. Felton, 23 l'r. 161.

'

Trial may he

adjourned for
cause.

Notice of trial.

On Judgment for
landlord, sheriﬂ
shall put him in
possession.

DISTRICT COURTS.

1240
Power and juris
diction of the
circuit court.

What is suifﬂcient
notice to quit
premises.

136. That the said circuit court shall have the same power with respect
to said proceedings, and the same control over the verdict and judgment.
as it has in other cases within its jurisdiction, and from thejuclgment so

entered a writ of error shall lie to the supreme court; but such writ shall
not stay the execution of such judgment unless upon an order to the etfeet
indorsed on said writ by the said circuit judge, and upon a bond with
suﬁicient surety being given in an amount which he shall designate, con
ditioned to indemnify the party in whose favor said judgment was rendered,
against all losses and damages which he may sustain by reason of ﬁnal
process being stayed.
137. That in all cases where any tenant is or may be entitled by law to
notice to quit the premises by him holden, in order to determine his ten
ancy, three months’ notice to quit as aforesaid shall be deemed and taken
to be suﬂicient.
XV. Forcible entry and detainer.

Unlawful entry
prohibited.

What constitutes
forcible entry
and detainer.

138. That no person shall enter upon or into any lands, tenements or
other possessions, and detain or hold the same, but where entry is given
by law, and then only in a peaceable manner.
139. That if any person shall enter upon or into any lands, tenements
or other possessions, and detain or hold the same with force or strong
hand, or with weapons, or by breaking open the doors, windows or other

part of a house, whether any person be in it or not, or by any kind of
violence whatsoever, or by threatening to kill, maim or beat the party in
possession, or by such words, circumstances or actions as have a natural
tendency to excite fear or apprehension of danger, or by putting out of
doors or carrying away the goods of the party in possession, or by enter
ing peaceably and then turning by force or frightening by threats, or other
circumstances of terror, the party out of possession; in such case every
person so offending shall be guilty of a forcible entry and detainer within
the meaning of this act.
What a forcible
detain er.

140. That no person who shall lawfully or peaceably enter upon or into
any lands, tenements or other possessions, shall hold or keep the same
unlawfully and with force, or strong hand, or weapons, or violence. or

Acts making for

menaces, or terrifying words, circumstances or actions aforesaid; and it is

cible entry are,

hereby declared that whatever words or circumstances, conduct or actions
will make an entry forcible under this act, shall also make a detainer

also, forcible dc
miner.

forcible.
What estates
comprehended.

141. That the three preceding sections of this act shall extend to and
comprehend terms for years, and all estates, whether freehold or less than

freehold.
Tenant holding

over by collusion
guilty of unlawful
detainer.

142. That if any tenant or tenants for term of life or lives, year or
years, or other person or persons who are or shall be in the possession of
any lands, tenements or hereditaments, by, from or under, or by collusion
with such tenant or tenants, shall willfully and without force, hold over

any lands, tenements or hereditaments, after demand and notice in writing
given for the delivery of the possession thereof, by his, her or their land
lord or landlords, lessor or lessors, or the person or persons to whom the
remainder or reversion of such lands, tenements or hereditaments shall
belong, his, her or their agent or attorney, thereunto lawfully authorized.
then such person or persons so holding over shall be guilty of an unlawful

detainer.
On complaint of
lands, &c., being

143. That when any complaint to any judge of any district court in
any city in this state shall be made in writing and signed by the partv

forcibly detained,
Judge shall issue

precept.

grieved, his agent or attorney, specifying the lands, tenements or other
possessions so forcibly entered upon and detained, or forcibly or unlaw
fully detained, by whom and when done, and the estate therein. it shall

be the duty of the said judge to issue a precept, under his hand and seal,
directed to the sheriff of the county wherein said district court may be
established, commanding him to cause to come before the said judge twelve
good and lawful men of the said county, qualiﬁed to serve as petit jurors

DISTRICT COURTS.

1241

in the court of general quarter sessions of the peace, to inquire into and
try such forcible entry and detainer, or forcible or unlawful detainer; which
precept shall be in the form or to the effect following, that is to say :
“ City of
, county of
sheriﬂ' of our county of

, to wit: the state of New Jersey to our F°"'1 °YP1‘¢°@P'
, greeting:

“ \\"hereas, complaint in writing is made to the subscriber, A. B., judge
of the district court in and for our said city, ofa certain forcible entry and
detainer (or if detainer only, then say ofa forcible detainer, or of a certain
unlawful detainer) made by E. F. into the messuage (or upon the lands) of
C. I). in the county aforesaid; we thereforee command you that you cause
to come before the said A. B., at
, in the county aforesaid, at the

hour of
- in the
noon of the
day of
, twelve
good and lawful men of the body of your county, being citizens of this
state and resident within the county, above the age of twenty-one and
under the age of sixty-ﬁve years, and who have a freehold in lands, mes

suages or tenements in the said county, and who are in no wise of kin to
the said C. D. or E. F., to make a jury of the county, to inquire of and try
the said forcible entry and detainer (or forcible or unlawful detainer);

gi\'en under the hand and seal of the said A. B., the

day of

,

in the year of our Lord one thousand
.”
144. That the said judge shall issue a summons to the party complained
against, in the words or ‘the effect following, that is to say :
" City of

, county of

, to wit : the state of New Jersey to our Form www

sheriff of our county of
, greeting :
'“°“”'
“ We command you that you summon E. F., of
,to appear be
fore A. B.,judge of the district court in and for our said city, at
,
in the county aforesaid, at the hour of -_-, in the -—-noon of
the
day of -—--, to answer to and make defense against the com
plaint of C. 1)., ofa forcible entry and detainer (or if detainer only, then
say ofa forcible detainer, or of an unlawful detainer), made by the said
E. F., into the messuage (or upon the lands) of the said C. D. in the

county aforesaid; and have you then and there this precept, with a
return of your proceedings therein; given under the hand and seal of
the said A. B., the day of

, in the year of our Lord one

thousand
”
145. That the said summons shall be served upon the party against $e"'1°¢°fI"m
whom the said complaint is made, or a copy thereof left at his usual place “‘°‘“'
of abode, six entire days before the day of appearance therein mentioned;
and that such service of the said summons in any part of the state, as well

without the said county as within it, shall be good and effectual in law;
and further, that no jury shall, by virtue of this act, be sworn to inquire
of and try any forcible entry and detainer, or forcible or unlawful detainer,
where such previous notice shall not have been given as aforesaid.
146. That the party against whom such complaint is made may, at the
time of appearance mentioned in the said summons, and before the said
jury is sworn, plead not guilty to the said charge or complaint, or that
he hath been three years in quiet possession, and his estate therein not
ended or determined, agreeably to a subsequent clause in this act; and
thereupon the said parties shall be at issue, and the said judge shall proceed
to swear the jury so returned, to inquire of and try the same; and if the
said party, against whom the complaint is made as aforesaid, does not
appear at the time speciﬁed in the said summons, or, appearing, does not
p_lead to the said complaint, then it shall be lawful for the said judge to
proceed in the same manner as if he had pleaded not guilty; to the said
jurors and each of them, who shall be returned to inquire of and try the
said complaint, the clerk of said court shall administer the following oath
or affirmation :
“ You do swear (or affirm) that you will well and truly try this issue
joined between C. D. and E. F., and a true verdict give according to the
evidence;” when the jury shall be so sworn as aforesaid, the said judge
shall cause the said complaint to be read to them, and then call upon the
complainant to support the same; if the jury ﬁnd the party against whom

Whenlurymny
“°“""‘”“
Pleaandlssue.

Trlslwbeby
“"7"

Form Ofwh 10
1“'y'

:’:;dcl§_'J“W

DISTRICT COURTS.

when body oi‘
oﬂt-nder may be
taken.

Writ oi’ restitu
tion, when to he
hsued.

such complaint is exhibited guilty, or ﬁnd against his plea of possession,
it shall be the duty of the said judge to record the said verdict and to give
judgment thereon with treble costs; and also to issue a writ of restitution,
directed to the sheriff, to cause the complainant to be reseized or repos
sessed, to which shall be added a clause commanding the said sheriti to
levy the said costs of the goods and chattels of the offender, and for want
thereof, to take the body of such offemler, and him safely to keep in close
custody in the common jail of the county until he shall pay the same, or
be thence delivered by due course of law.

147. That no writ of restitution shall be issued by the judge of any
district court, upon any judgment rendered by him in pursuance of the
provisions of the preceding section of this act, until eight entire days, ex
clusive of Sundays, shall have elapsed after the rendition of such judgment ;
which writ of restitution, when issued, shall be returned within three
months thereafter by the sheriff or other oﬂicer to whom the same has been
delivered, with his proceedings thereon, to the judge who issued the same ;
if thejury ﬁnd against the said complainant, the said judge shall cause
the said verdict to be recorded, and give judgment accordingly, with costs,
and shall issue execution, directed as aforesaid, for the said costs, against

Postponement
Of trial.

the goods and chattels, and, in want thereof, against the body of the said
com lainant.
1 8. That the said judge may, at the request of either party, and on
good reasons being assigned, postpone the said trial to any time not exceed
ing ﬁfteen days; but such postponement to be on the payment of costs.

Clerk to make
entry in docket.

149. That it shall be the duty of the said clerk to enter, on his minutes
or docket, true copies of the complaint exhibited by virtue of this act, and
of the summons and return, also the time of issuing the venire, and how

returned, the names of the jurors, their verdict and his judgment thereon ;
and also the names of the witnesses and the admission of evidence objected
to, and the rejection of evidence offered, and all the proceedings before

him had touching the said complaint.
Penalty ifsheriﬂ‘
neglect to execute
writ, &4:.

150. That if the sheriﬂ‘ of any county shall neglect or refuse to execute

or return any precept, writ or other process to him directed and delivered,
by virtue of this act, he shall, for every such offense, forfeit and pay two
hundred dollars to the party grieved, to be recovered with costs, by action

Proceedings re

of debt, in any court of record having cognizance of that sum.
151. That the proceedings had by virtue of this act, on such forcible

moved by cer
tiorari only.

entry and detainer, or forcible or unlawful detaiuer, may be removed before

When certiorari

the supreme court by writ of certiorari, and in no other way, and then
only after judgment. (a)
152. That no justice of the supreme court shall grant or allow any oer
tiorari to remove any judgment, order or proceeding to be had or made by
virtue of this act, unless the party applying for such certiorari shall pre

will be granted.

sent to the said justice reasons for the allowance thereof, drawn up and
subscribed by himself or some attorney-at-law, to be deemed by the said
Applicant to

enter into a bond.

justice to contain a probable cause of reversal; and unless such applicant
shall also enter into bond to the other party, in the sum of two hundred

and ﬁfty dollars, with one or more suﬁicient surety or sureties, being free
holders and residents of this state, conditioned that such applicant shall
prosecute the said certiorari in the supreme court, shall pay the yearly value
of the premises in dispute, from the time of granting the said certiorari to
the determination of the same, together with the costs of the suit before the
court below, and such further costs as may be taxed if the judgment be

aﬁirmed; and shall in all things stand to and abide the judgment of the
supreme court respecting the judgment, order or proceeding given or made
by the court below; which said bond, together with the reasons, shall be
ﬁled by the said justice with the clerk of the supreme court for the beneﬁt
Oeniorari how

and use of the obligec.
153. That every certiorari to remove any judgment, order or proceed

prosecuted and

tried.

ing, to be had or made by virtue of this act, shall in every other respect

(n) By the act of April 23d, I888 (port, See. 233), s new trial may now be granted in proceedings on a complaint for forcible entry
and detaiuer. Kraurr v. Dug/(on, 22 Vr. 272.

’

DISTRICT COURTS.

1243

‘be prosecuted , tried and determined in like manner, and be subject to the
like rules and regulations as writs of certiorari to judges of district courts
to remove proceedings had by virtue of this act.

154. That neither the said judgment nor anything in this act shall bar J"d8m°'""°"°
or prevent the party injured from bringing an action of trespass or other :’::s;°a;°“ M
action against the aggressor or party offending.
155. That the estate or merits of the title shall in no wise be inquired
into on any complaint which shall be exhibited by virtue of this act; pr0virled always, that this act shall not extend to any person who hath had
the uninterrupted occupation or been in the quiet possession of any lands
or tenements for the space of three whole years together, immediately pre
ceding such complaint so exhibited to the said judge, and whose estate
therein is not ended or determined, but every such person may plead the
same to the said complaint, which shall be tried in the manner hereinbe
fore described.
156.
Thatany
every
judge of any
court inby
any
city of
of this
this act,
state,shall
before
whom
prosecution
may district
be instituted
virtue

'
f§°,,';‘fnflfJ{j§ “°‘
Imo
P'°"=°~

Judge may Issue
b
I “MW
I
::,,:C,e,f'

be and he is hereby authorized to issue writs of subpoena ad testiﬁcandum
into any county of this state.

157. That in prosecutions under this act the following fees shall be

I-‘ees to clerks.

allowed and paid to the clerks of said courts :
For every summons, thirty cents;

For every venire facias, forty cents;
For entering copies of every complaint, summons and

return, one

dollar;

For subpoena for every witness, twelve cents;
For swearing thejury, twenty cents;
For administering every oath or aﬁirmation, ﬁve cents ;
For entering every verdict, twelve cents;
For entering every judgment, twelve cents;
For every trial, two dollars ;
For return to every certiorari, one dollar ;

TO THE SHERIFF.

For serving every summons and return, one dollar;
To sherlﬂ.
For summoning every jury, returning the precept, and attending the
trial, four dollars;
For executing every writ of restitution, two dollars ;
For serving every execution for costs, advertising property for sale, and
so forth, the same fees as are allowed for the like services in the court of

common pleas ;
TO THE JU RORS.

Every juror for each cause in which he is sworn or aﬂirmed, twenty-ﬁve Tojurors.
cents;

For each cause in which he appears but is not sworn or affirmed, twelve
cents ;
TO THE \VlTNESSES.

The same fees as are allowed to them for like services under this act;

To v~'lme~M

TO THE ATTORNEY.

For the trial of every cause, two dollars.

Toattorney.

DISTRICT COURTS.

1244
Penalty Lfjuror or
witness refuse to
serve or attend.

158. That every person summoned as a juror or subpoenaed asa wit'
ness, who shall not appear, or, appearing, shall refuse to serve or give
evidence in any prosecution instituted by virtue of this act, shall f'orf'c-it
and pay for every such default or refusal, unless some reasonable cause be
assigned, such ﬁne not exceeding ﬁve dollars nor less than one dollar in the
case of a juror, and not exceeding twenty dollars nor less than ﬁve in the
case of a witness, as the said judge shall think proper to impose ; and such
judge is hereby authorized and required .to issue an execution directed to
any constable of the said county, to levy the same of the goods and chat
tels of the offender, which ﬁne, when recovered, shall be applied by the
said judge to the use of the said city.

XVI. Proceedings by attachment.

After issuing
writ plai ntlff
must advertise.

159. [Amended by Sec. 195, p0st.]
160. That it shall be the duty of the plaintifff forthwith, after the issuing
of such attachment, to advertise in three of the most public places iu the
county, that an attachment has been taken out from such district court
against such absconding or absent debtor, in order that any person having
a greater demand against such debtor than is cognizable before said district
court, may have an opportunity to take out an attachment for the recovery

of the same.
Proceedings
against gnruisbee.

161. That the plaintifff in such attachment, notwithstanding the gar
nishee’s denial of his having any monies, goods, chattels or effects of the
defendant in his custody or possession, or of his being indebted to him,
may, if he really

believes that the

said garnishee

hath such monies,

goods, chattels or effects in his custody or possession, or that be is indebted
to the defendant and is in fear of the said garnishee’s absconding before
judgment and execution can be had against such garnishee, and shall make
oath or affirmation thereof, and deliver the same to the clerk as aforesaid,
When by sum
mons.
When by warrant,

when plaintifff to
P8)! CO8!-5 I0
garnishee.

institute a suit against the said garnishee, by summons, or, in case of fraud
duly proved, by warrant, and if he shall make sufficient proof of the debt
due to him, and also of the effects, rights or credits in the hands of the
garnishee, thc said judge shall give judgment therein for the plaintifff, and
award and issue his execution therefore to the constable against the gar
nishee, as in other cases cognizable by district courts in accordance with
this act;and if the plaintifff shall not make sufficient proof of the effects,

rights or credits in the hands of the garnishee, he shall pay the garnishee
his costs, and, if need be, the judge of said district court shall issue his

execution against the plaintifff for the same.
Defendant may

162. That it shall be lawful for the defendant in any attachment issued

enter appearance
by filing bond.

Condition of bond.

On approval of
bond, property

released from llen.

Proceedings after
boud ﬁled.

Hillier party may
appeal.

by any clerk of’ any district court as aforesaid, on or before the day ap
pointed for the hearing of the said cause, to cause his appearance to be
entered, by ﬁling with the said clerk a bond to the plaintifff, executed by
one or more sufficient sureties, being freeholders and residents in the
county in which such attachment shall issue, in double the value of the
property attached, conditioned for the due and safe return of the goods
and chattels, rights and credits, monies and eﬁ'ects seized and taken by
virtue of such writ of attachment, in case judgment shall be rendered for
the plaiiititf; which said bond shall be approved by the said clerk, and
filed by him for the use and beneﬁt of the plaintifff; and thereupon the
property attached shall be restored to the defendant and released from the
lien of the said attachment. [See Sec. 220, post]

163. That after ﬁling the said bond, the said defendant shall ﬁle his
plea, copy of account, or set~off, if any he have, and the said cause shall
and may be adjourned and conducted in all things in like manner as if the
same had been commenced by summons under this act; and either party
may appeal from the said judgment in like manner, in every respect, as if
the said suit had been commenced by summons under this act.

LaAs

DISTRICT COURTS.
164. That from any judgment rendered by a judge of any district court
for or against a garnishee in attachment, either party may appeal in like
manner in all things as from any other judgment of said judge under this

1245
Appeal from
judgment for or
against gar-uishee.

act.

165. That any writ of attachment against any absconding or absent
debtor, which may he issued out of the supreme court or any circuit
court or court of common pleas, shall be a supersedeas to all attachments
issued by any district court of this state, undetermined at the time of
serving the said writ; and it shall and may be lawful for the sheriff or his
deputy to take into his possession all goods and chattels attached by the
constable, as fully, to all intents and purposes, as if the attachment issued

Attachment in
district court,
when superseded.

by the said clerk of said district court had not been served, and the plain

tilfs in said attachments shall be entitled to their several debts, with the
costs that may have accrued, in proportion with the other creditors, as isthe
practice in the supreme court or any circuit court or court of common pleas ;
provider] nlu-a_:/s, that no constable shall be obliged to remove any goods
taken into his custody by virtue of any attachment, after the same shall
have been seized and attached by the sheritii (a)
166. That in all cases of an attachment hereafter issued by any district
court of any city of this state, when an affidavit shall he ﬁled on or in be
half of the defendant, setting forth facts which would render said attach
ment illegal or void, it shall be the duty of said judge of said district court,
upon a motion to quash the writ of attachment, to try said facts without
requiring the defendant to ﬁle a bond according to the requisition of this
act, and to give judgment on said motion ; and when an attachment issued
by any district court as aforesaid shall be superseded by an attachment
out of a higher court, the plaintifff in the attachment so superseded shall
be entitled to be ﬁrst paid out of the property attached the full amount of
the legal costs and expenses which may have accrued on the attachment so
superseded.

Proviso.

Moiion to quash,
without ﬂiing
bond.

Costs, &c., to be
paid pisintiﬂ‘
when attachment

is superseded.

XVII. Miscellaneous.

167. That this act shall not affect any suit or proceeding instituted in
any court for the trial of small causes prior to the ﬁrst day of April next;
such suit or proceeding may he prosecuted or continued, any judgment
therein may be docketed, and any writ, process or execution therein may
issue as if this act had not been passed.

168. That any oath or affirmation proper to be made or administered
in any action or proceeding in said courts may be administered by the
clerks thereof.

169. That it may be lawful for any defendant, within such time as
shall be directed by the rules made for regulating the practice of the said
courts, to pay into court such sum of money as he shall think in full satis
faction for the demand of the plaintifff‘, together with the costs incurred by
the plaintifff up to the time of such payment, and notice of such payment
shall be communicated by the clerk to the plaintifff by the post, or by
causing the same to be delivered at his usual place of abode or business;
and said sum of money shall be paid to the plaintifff; but if he shall elect
to proceed, and if the plaintiti' shall recover no further sum in the action
than shall have been so paid into court, the plaintifff shall pay to the
defendant the costs incurred by him in said action after such payment,
which costs may be collected as other costs are collected in said court.
170. That if the parties to any action or proceeding in said courts fail
to demand a trial by jury in cases where such demand is necessary, and so
elect to permit questions of fact to be determined by the judge thereof,
then such determination of the judge, or, in cases where there is a jury,
then the verdict of a jury and any judgment thereupon shall be ﬁnal and
conclusive between the parties upon questions of fact, except as herein
provided; but the judge shall have power to non-suit the plaintitl‘ in every
(a) See C'harlier v. Pratt, 9 N. J. L. J. 169.

Act not to aifecr
suits pending.

Oaths may be ud
ministered by
clerks oi’ court.
Defendant may
pay into court
money in satisfac
tion of demand
of pislndﬂ‘.

Verdict of jury
or decision of
Judge conclusive
as lo qu siions of
fact.

1246

DISTRICT COURTS.
case in which satisfactory proof shall not be given to him entitling either
plaintifff or defendant to the judgment of said court, and shall also, in
every case whatever. have the power, if he think ﬁt, to order a new trial
to be had upon such terms as he shall think reasonable, and in the mean
time stay proceedings. (a)

When appeal

may be had on
point of law.

Proviso.

When nppenl

taken, state of
case to be agreed
on.

Time allowed to
agree upon case.
Proviso.

171. That if either party in any such action or proceeding shallbe
dissatisﬁed with the determination or direction of said court in point of
law. or upon the admission or rejection of evidence, such party may
appeal from the same to the court of common pleas in and for the county
wherein said district court is held ; provided, that such party shall, within
ten days after such determination or direction, give notice of such appeal
to the other party or his attorney, and enter into bond to the other party,
with at least one suﬂicient surety, being a freeholder of such county,to
be approved by the judge, for the costs of the appeal, whatever be the
result thereof, and for double the amount, if any, of thejudgment rendered
against him, conditioned for the payment thereof, if the appeal be not
prosecuted by the appellant, or be dismissed; nevertheless, such security,
so far as regards the amount of the judgment, shall not be required in any
case where the judge shall permit the party appealing to pay the amount of
suchjudgment into the hands of the clerk,and the same shall have been
paid accordingly; but such appeal shall operate as a stay of proceedings
only after such security has been given or money paid, and the said court
of common pleas may either order a new trial, on such terms as said court
may direct, or may order judgment to be entered for either party,as the case
may be, and may make such order with respect to the dismissal and costs
of the said appeal as said court may think proper. (b) [See See. 27 6, pos!.]

172. That such appeal shall be in the form of a case agreed on by both
parties or their attorneys, and if they cannot agree, the judge, on being ap
plied to by them or their attorneys, shall, upon such notice as said judge
shall prescribe, settle the case and sign it, and such case shall be trans
mitted by the appellant to the clerk of the said court of common pleas and
filed by him in his office. (c) (1)
173. That such case shall be agreed upon or settled within ﬁfteen days
after such determination or direction, unless the judge shall grant further
time for that purpose; provided, that such case shall he heard by said
court of common pleas at the next term after such determination or direc

Proviso.

tion, unless the said court shall, on good cause shown, postpone the hear
ing thereof to some subsequent term: and provided further, that there
shall be ﬁfteen days between such determination or direction and said next
term. (d)

(a) See Best Y. Smith, 25 Vr. 434.
(b) The district courts of the ciiy of Newark, under the act of
March 4th, 1873, decide facts and execute ju ments in small
causes between parties residing in the city of ewnrlt and the ‘
court of common pleas, in its relations to said courts, ls purely
an appellate court. A ﬁnal Judgment cannot beeuiered and
executed in the common cpleas: ihere must be an order for
Judgment directed to the Lstrict court. Gum-in v. Rodwcu, 8
Vr. 71. The jurisdiction of the common pleas over the proceed
in
of district courts by way of appeal is only to review the
ju
em. and decisions of the latter court in matter oi’ law.
Ha nes v. Roebuck, 18 Vr. 227. The slniuiorg provision that the
gloss " may either order a new trial on suc terms as it thinks
t, or may order Judgment to be entered foreiiher party,as the
cue ma be," mguiaies ihe procedure of the pleas upon nu
appealab e decision. It does not give the less n discretionary
control over the proceedings of the distr ct court, to be exer

cised independent of an erroneous determination or decision of
the latter court in point of law. Io. Jlnndomu-r will go ton
district court, commanding it to open an execution which ii.

withheld because an appeal had been taken when the notice of
appeal was given after a period of ten days from the entry of
the Jud ment. Buumzm v. Hoooli-en, 20 Vr. 587.
(c)
st a state of s case, sent up by sludge of the district
court of the city of Newark to the court of common pleas, shall

contain will depend on the nature of the legal decision to be re
viewed. If the objection is to the rejection or admission of
evidence, the state of the case should comprise so much of the

case and the prior evidence as will fnirly present the legality of
the judge's ruling. If the case be tried by ajury, and exception

has been taken to the charge, it should contain so much of the
evidence as will submit to the court of common ieus the pro
priety of the instructions given. If it be tried by
ejndgt-,snd
ihe complaint is oi‘ ihe legal princi lea on which the issue was
decided, it should contain only the acts as found by the judge.

his determination in that respect being ﬁnal.
Howcll, 10 Vr. 221.

Bmrdicl v

If the judge refuse to make and sign nslaie

of the case. he may be compelled to do so b mnmiumiu. _
the state of ihe case isdefecfive, the common p eas may require
the judge to certify in relation to such matters wherein it is

found to be deficient. Jb. Neither the supreme court, on
mandamus nor the common pleas, on an alleged defect in the
csse sts
, will take nﬂidavlis of what. occurred in the district
court and require lhejudge to embody in his certiﬁcate of ihe

case the facts so ascertained. Ib. In actions in the distriol
courts which fall within the provisions of the act. of 1877,011
jections to the rulings of the court need not be taken by formsl
exceptions, signed and sealed, such as are
uired in actions in
those courts by the provisions of the act o

I882.

Olipmml \'

B1-mrlry,25 V1-.521. To obtain a review oi‘ rulings in ihe iim
class of cases, the state of the case must show that objection
was made thereto and the grounds of the objection subsianiisllf
presented to the court. Ib.
(ti) Where the party appealing from the judgment of adh
trict court has fa. led to n rec W th his nd versary on n shite oi
ihe 1‘/HM‘. or in npgiy to the udge to settle the case within fiiieen
days afier the ju gment, it is not erroneous in law for the @1111"
Loﬂus v. ﬁ((h0‘lw!i
14 V1‘. 357.

of common pleas to dismiss the appeal.

(1) The decisions referred to in the notes to sections i7i and 172 were rendered in cases coming before the supreme court on cl"
ﬂorarl, bringing u the Judgments of the common pleas of Essex county on appeals from the district courts of Newark, estsbiisbtd
ch 4th, 1873. Sections 171 and 1T2 are in the some words as ihe sections in the Newark act.
under the act of

1247

DISTRICT COURTS.
174. That such order, determination or decision of the court of common
pleas may be removed into the supreme court by writ of certiorari; said
writ shall remove said order or determination, and the case agreed upon
or settled as hereinbefore mentioned ; provided, the party applying for the
same comply with the provisions of this act. (a)
175. That the judges of said district courts shall make such rules_as
may be necessary for the orderly conduct and business and proceedings of
their said courts respectively; the rules of said courts shall be uniform,
and shall be approved by and subject to the revision of such justice of the
supreme court as shall hold the circuit in and for the county wherein said
courts may be established; and in case of the sickness or unavoidable
absence of the judge of any district court, the same may be held by one of
the judges of the said court of common pleas, to be designated by thejudge
so sick or absent, and approved by the aforesaid justice of the supreme
court. (b)

_

mon pleas may be

removed to
supreme court by

certiorari.
District court
judges to make
rules.

Sickness or
absence ofjudge.

.

176. That the judges of said courts shall, before they enter upon the
execution of their respective oiilces, take and subscribe the following oath,
to wit: “ I, A. B., do solemnly promise and swear that I will administer
justice without respect to persons, and faithfully and impartially per
district court of
form all the duties incumbent on me as judge of
the city of
,according to the best of my abilities and understand
ing, agreeably to the constitution and laws of the state of New Jersey, so
help me God;” and the clerks of said courts shall, before they enter upon
the execution of their respective offices, take and subscribe the following
oath, to wit: “ I, A. B., being appointed clerk of the district court of the
city of
,do solemnly promise and swear that I will truly and faith~
fully enter and record all the orders, judgments and proceedings of the
said court; that I will justly and honestly keep the records, parchmeuts,
papers, writings and books to me committed, and to be committed by virtue
of my said oﬁlce, and that I will faithfully and impartially perform all the
duties of the said oﬁlce according to the best of my abilities and under
standing, so help me God.”

177. That it shall be the duty of the clerk for the time being of the
inferior court of common pleas of the county in which said courts may be
established, and of none other, to administer the oaths required by the pre
cedin section of this act.

17 . [Amended by Secs. 237 and 246, post]
179. That all fees allowed by virtue of this act shall be paid to the
clerks of said courts, at the time and in the manner hereinbcfore prescribed ;
the clerk of each court shall keep an accurate account oi‘ all monies so re
ceived by him, and of all monies paid by him in cases where he is required
by this act to pay any monies, and to whom paid, and he shall render de
tailed monthly statements to the treasurer of the city where said court may
be established, of such receipts and disbursements, and pay over to such
treasurer monthly the balance remaining in his hands.
180. That the fees of constables, jurors and witnesses shall be those
prescribed by this act, and shall be payable at the same time and in the
same manner, and all other fees required by this act shall be paid to said
clerks, to be by them accounted for in the manner directed in the preceding
section of this act.

181. That in addition to the fees allowed by this act, the following fees
shall be allowed to the clerk of the court of common pleas, for ﬁling every
case agreed upon or settled, the sum of one dollar; ﬁfty cents whereof shall
be paid by said clerk to the judges of said court as their fees thereon ; to
the constable for each day’s actual attendance on the sittings of said courts,
where such attendance shall be required by the judge, the sum of one
(0.) On certim-art to remove an appeal from the district court
of a city, the facts most Ibvorafile to the plaintifff's or defend
ant’s case, which are essential to support thejudgment, shall be
taken as found, and will not he weighed in the supreme court
against opposing evidence. Wallace v. Kennedy 18 Vr. 242.
A state of the case must contain only enough ofl the fhcts to
enable the court, on appeal, to determine the legality of the
rulings of the court below.

Decision of com

Ib.

Qulmby v. Hopptna,28 Vr.l17.

(b) The common pleasjudge, under the statute, is designated

Form oi’ oath to
be taken by the

judges.

Form of oath by
clerk.

County clerk to
administer oath.

All fees paid to
clerk.
Clerk to render
monthly accounts

to city treasurer.

Fees of constables,
jurors and wit
nesses payable to

clerk.

Additional fees to
clerk, ac.

to hold the district court for the time being, and not to try any
particular cause. His appointment. thereforee, is no
not the
record in this case, and the presum tion will be, in t e absence
of evidence to the contrary, that e was duly qualiﬁed to met.
Grain v. Somen, 26 Vr. 525. The reiator had the right to chal
lenge in the court below, and upon such challenge being inter

posed, it should have been sustained, unless the Judge could
produce his authority to preside in the court. Ib.

1248

DISTRICT COURTS.
dollar, to be paid by the mayor and common council of the city where
said courts may be established, out of the treasury of said city; to any
judge of the court of common pleas the sum of three dollars per day for
each day that he shall actually preside in said district court, to be paid as
last aforesaid.

182. [Amended by Sec. 205, post]
183. That the mayor and common council of each city where said courts
',‘,'§,‘,1v',‘:,‘:,',‘,"'"'°'°b° may be established, shall provide suitable rooms for the transaction of the

Suitable rooms

-l““g°5‘° “eel?

business of said court or courts, and procure suitable furniture therefore,
and such books and stationery as may be necessary.
184. That the judges of said courts may designate constables to attend

We °°“5mb“'°'
Clerks slmllsive

the sittings of said courts, and to preserve order therein. (a)
185. That the clerks of each of said courts shall enter into bond to the

b°“"'

state of New Jersey, with at least two good and suﬁicient sureties, being
freeholders in the county where said court or courts may he established,
in the sum of three thousand dollars; which bond to be entered into as

F°'m °f °°"daforesaid, by the said clerks and their sureties, with the condition thereof,
shall be in the form following, that is to say:
“ Know all men by these presents, that we, A. B., C. D. and E. F., of the
county of
, are held and ﬁrmly bound unto the state of New Jersey
in the sum of three thousand dollars to be paid unto the state of New
Jersey, to which payment, well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves,
our heirs, executors and administrators, jointly and severally, ﬁrmly by
these presents, sealed with our seals, dated the

day of . in the

year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
; the condition of
this obligation is such that if the above bounden A. B. shall well and truly
execute the oﬁice of clerk of the district court of the city of -a, in the
county of
-, and in all things touching and concerning said oﬁice
shall well and truly, faithfully and impartially, execute and perform the

same according to law, as well with respect to all persons concerned as the
state of New Jersey,and at the expiration of his said oﬁice shall deliver
to his successor in office all the books, papers. records and writin s remain
Bondw been

ing in the same, or appertaining thereto, then this obligation go be void,
otherwise to be and remain in full force and virtue;” such bond shall be

""°"°d'

approved of by two of the judges of the court of common pleas of the
county where said courts may be established, and when so executed and
Oelhﬂlld bee‘! W approved of, shall, together with the oath or affirmation of oﬁice, duly

2:31;: "'2'; mm taken and subscribed, be recorded in the seeretary’s oﬁice. and ﬁled in the
W ‘ ' same, to be by the secretary of state kept among the public papers of his
I’ena1ryf0rner- oiﬁce ; and in case any person appointed clerk as aforesaid, before he shall

{:L'§:r';‘g,,‘fI;,ygd“‘y enter into the security aforesaid, shall perform any of the duties required
,,,,,,,,_ g

of him by law in said oﬁice, he shall, for such offense, forfeit and pay, for

the use of this state, one hundred dollars, to be sued for and recovered by
any one of the judges of the court of common pleas of the county in which
the offense was committed, in an action of debt, with costs of suit, in the

name of this state.
Wvrgs“elelnu1f,"
186. That the word “_ plaintifff,” wherever used in this act, shall be

“",‘:an‘l°,'°“;"‘,;“'
W
mu Q‘

taken
to include “plaintifffs,” or “person or persons instituting proceed
ings;” the word “defendant” shall he taken to include “defendants,"
or “ person or persons proceeded against.”

(a) The judge is authorized to designate aconstable to attend
the sittings of the court, to preserve order therein, but such constable is entitled only to receive the compensation ﬁxed by the

wet for attendance upon the court when sittin
ance of its judicial functions.

Lewis v. Hobo

for the perform
, 13 Vr. 377.

DISTRICT COURTS.

1249

XVIII. Supplements.
Supplement.
Approved March H, 1878.

187. SEO. 1. That the second section of said act, and which reads as fol
lows [see P. L. 1877, p. 234], be amended so as to read as follows:
[That one district court shall be established in accordance with this act
in every city of this state of over twenty thousand inhabitants, but cities
of one hundred thousand inhabitants or over shall be entitled to two dis
trict courts; provided always, that no more than two district courts shall
at any time be established in any city of this state] (a) (1)

188. SEO. 2. That any and every district court heretofore established in
accordance with the provisions of the act to which this is a supplement,
and now existing in any city of this state, having less than twenty thou

P. 1.. 1878, p. 94.

When uvo dis
trict courts may

be established. V
Proviso.

Court abolished in
cities having less
than 20,000 inhabi
(ants.

sand inhabitants, according to the last census, be and the same is hereby
abolished. (b)

189. Sec. 3. That within thirty days after this act shall take effect the
judge of any district court in any city in this state, which is abolished by
the second section of this act, shall ﬁle in the clerk’s oilicc of the county
in which said city is located, all papers and dockets relating to said district
court, or any suits therein pending or determined, there to remain as
records, and that they may be used and certiﬁed as other records of said
county by said clerk of such county.

Papers and dock
ets of such court
so abolished to he
ﬂied in oﬂice of
county clerk.

Supplement.
Approved March 20, 1873.

P. L. i878, p. H8.

190. Sac. 1. That section six of the act to which this is a supplement,
and which reads as follows [see P. L. 1877, p. 234], be amended so as to
read as follows:
[That every suit of a civil nature at law, where the debt, balance or
other matter in dispute does not exceed, exclusive of costs, the sum or

value of two hundred dollars, shall be and hereby is made cognizable in
any district court of this state, in the cities where they may be established,
to hear, try and determine the same according to law, although the cause
of action did not arise in said city; said district courts shall havejurisdic
tion, exclusive of all other courts whatsoever, except the circuit court of
the county or counties wherein said district may be established, in all cases

Jurisdiction in
every suit oi‘ a

civil nature when
the matter in dis
pute does not ex
ceed the sum of

$200.

arising under this act, where the party defendant resides within the cor

porate limits of the city wherein said court or courts shall be established;
provided always, that this act shall not extend to any action of replevin,
slander, trespass for assault, battery or imprisonment, nor to any action

Proviso.

wherein the title to any lands, tenements, hereditaments or other real

estate shall or may in any wise come in question.] (0) [See Sec. 253,p0st.]

191. SEC. 2. That section seven of the act to which this is a supplement,
and which reads as follows [see P. L. 1877, p. 235], be and the same is
hereby amended so as to read as follows :
(a) The special act of 1873, constituting two district courts in
Newark, is not repealed by section 20f the act of 1877, p. 284.
Field v. Silo, 15 V1‘. 855.
(b) District courts are inferior courts, which the legislature is
empowered to establish, alter or abolish, at its discretion,as the
public good may require: and ii’, in legislative discretion, the
court is abolished, the term of service of its oﬂlcers will thereb

proceedings lawthliy instituted before him, he has Jurisdiction

be terminated.

ing under the act, is not in contravention of the constitutional
prohibition that " every law shall embnce but one object, and

on such defendant. which may be waiv
by submitting to the
jurisdiction of another court. Du
v. Iieauwr, 17 V1-. 429.
See. also, Finch v. Smith, l7 Vr. 484.
he phrase "every writ of
n. civil nature at law,” does not embrace actions for statutory
penalties. Koch v. Vandrrluzl, 20 Vr. 619. A suit will not lie in
the district court oi‘ the county of Hudson ior atrespass to
lands in the county of Essex. Jenkins v. Greater, 21 Vr. 351.

that shall be expremed in its title."

Wliere in proceedin

Rutgers v. New Brim-nuick, 13

Vr. 51.

Th

supplement abolished the court in New Brunswick, and was
IIOI. a special or local law. Whether it was a law regulating the
internal ntfalrs ofelties, not decided. lb.
(c) The provision for exclusive jurisdiction in all causes aris

Pluyne v. Jllalum, i5 Vr. 2l3,

reversingﬂ. 0., i2 Vr. 292. A summons cannctbe served on a
non-resident of the city, beyond the limit of such city. Welt
man v.Ber;rmann,15 Vr. M3. But see Sec. 216, post. Upon n

ofan action by sctre facim against a garnishee who resides

within the limits ofa city in which a district court is estnhl ished.
N. Y., L. E. and W. R. R. Cb. v. Cbokson, 16 Vr. 302. The exclu
sive jurisdiction given to district courts, where the party de

fendant resides within the corporate limits oi’ the city wherein
said courts are established, confers merei

a personal privilege

to dispocsess the plaintifff cannot show

his right to pomess on without uttering his deed—Hetd, that
under this section the court would be ousted of its jurisdiction.
Koclc v. Berry, ll .\'. J. L. J. 206.

judgment rendered by a Justice oi’ the peace in attachment
(1) The second section of the district court sci. was again amended by i’. L. 1892, p. M (secs. 242 and 2-i3, post), but thisamendment
of 1892 was repealed by P. L. 189-i, p. 66 (Sec. 2ii),pos!).

1250
In rlsdictlon ex
tended on bonds,
di:c., to $200, with
out regard to
penalty.

DISTRICT COURTS.
[That whenever the amount really due or recoverable upon any bond,
bill, note, or other contract in writing, does not exceed, exclusive of costs,
the sum or value of two hundred dollars at the time when the suit is insti
tuted, such amount shall be recoverable in said district courts, without
regard to any kind of penalty expressed therein, in the same manner as
any other debt or demand of two hundred dollars or under is made recov
erable by this act.]

192. Sac. 3. That section twenty-nine of the act to which this is a sup
Neglect in ﬁling
set-offa bar to
future action.
Proviso.

Bond required oi
defendant on
ﬂling plea of title.

plement, and which reads as follows [see P. L. 1877, p. 243], be and the
same is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
[That if any defendant neglect or refuse to deliver a copy of his or her
account or state of demand against such plaintifff‘, he or she shall forever
thereafter be precluded from having or maintaining any action for such
account or demand, or from setting off the same in any future suit; provided
always, that where the balance found to be due to such defendant exceeds
the sum of two hundred dollars, then the said defendant shall not be pre
cluded from recovering his or her account or demand against such plaintifff
in any other court of record having cognizance of the same.]
193. SEO. 4. That section thirty-two of the act to which this is a supple
ment and which reads as follows [see P. L. 1877, p. 243], be and the same
is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
[That the judge to whom a plea of justiﬁcation is tendered as aforesaid,
shall, before he receives such plea, require and obtain from the defendant
a bond, with one good surety, being a frecholder in the said county, in the
penalty of two hundred dollars, executed to the plaintifff, and conditioned
that ii‘ the said plaintifff shall commence such action in the supreme court
or in the circuit court of the county where the said judge holds his court,
within three months thereafter, the said defendant will appear thereto,
within twenty days after the writ to be thereupon issued against him shall
be returned served, and shall pay such costs as may be awarded against
him in the said action ; and in case such plea is tendered, and the defendant
shall not forthwith enter into such bond to the plaintifff, the said judge shall
proceed in the same manner as if such plea had not been tendered]

194. SEC. 5. That section ﬁfty of the act to which this is a supplement
Judgment on
bond, &.c., to be
given for real
debt.

and which reads as follows [see P. L. 1877, p. 2-19],be and the same is
hereby amended so as to read as follows :
,
[That when the amount really due and recoverable upon any bond, bill,
note or other contract in writing, does not exceed, exclusive of costs, the
sum or value of two hundred dollars at the time when suit is instituted,
proof shall be made of the amount really due and owing, and the judge
shall give judgment therefore with costs, and not for the amount oi‘ the
penalty expressed, whether such penalty exceed or be less than two hun
dred dollars.] (a)

195. SEO. 6. That section one hundred and ﬁfty-nine of the act to which
Attachment may

issue against
nbscondlng or
nonresident
debtor for sum
not exceeding

$200.

\Vl‘lt, how exe

cuted.

this is a supplement and which reads as follows [see P. L. 1877, p. 285],
be and the same is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
[That if any creditor shall make oath or aﬂirmation either that he verily
believes that his debtor absconds from his creditors, and is not to his knowl

edge or belief resident in this state at the time, or that the person against
whose estate an attachment is about to be issued, is not to the knowledge
or belief of said creditor resident in this state at the time, and that he owes
to said creditor a certain sum of money, specifying as nearly as he can the
amount of the debt or balance, the clerk of any district court in any city
of this state shall, and he is hereby required to. issue out of said district
court an attachment under his hand and the seal of said court, for any sum
not exceeding two hundred dollars. directed to a constable, who shall exe
cute the same in the following manner, that is to say : the oilicer to whom
it is directed shall go to the house or lands of the defendant, or to the per

son or house of the person in whose custody or possession the defendant's
property and estate may be, and then and there declare, in the presence of
(<1) In an action on an appeal bond,judgment in the district court should not be entered for the penalty, but for the amount
really due and recoverable. Fraley v. 1-kather, 17 Vr. 4%.
.

DISTRICT COURTS.
one credible person at the least, that he attaches the rights and credits,
money and etfects, goods and chattels of such defendant, at the suit of the
plaintifff in the said writ named; and upon the return of such attachment,
the said judge of the district court shall appoint a day for the hearing of

Hearing oi‘ the

cause.

the said cause, not less than twenty days from the issuing of the said writ;

on or before which day so appointed the plaintifff in the said attachment
shall ﬁle a copy of his account or state of demand; and if the creditor
shall make suﬁicient proof of the debt due to him, the said judge shall
give judgment therein for the plaintiff and award his execution thereof to
the constable against the effects of the defendant, as in other cases cogniz
able before said judge, but the effects of the defendant thereon taken shall
not be sold in less than three months (unless the same are perishable), to
the end that the debtor or his friend may redeem the same, and in the
meantime the same shall be inventoried and safely kept in such manner as

the 'udgc shall direct.]

State of demand‘
to be filed.

[See Sec. 220, posl.]

163. Sac. 7. That all acts and parts of acts, inconsistent with the pro
visions- of this act, be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act
shall take effect immediately.

Repealer.

Supplement.
Approved April 5, I878.

197. SEC. 1. That no warrant for the arrest of or execution against the
body of any defendant, issued out of any district court, or any of the pro
ceedings in relation thereto, shall he reviewed, set aside or vacated, except
by a justice of the supreme court, upon application to such justice, after
reasonable notice to the plaintifff of an application for that purpose.

198. SEO. 2. That in all cases in any of the district courts of this state,
unless a demand for a trial by jury should be made at least one day before
the time ﬁxed for the trial, the demand for trial by jury shall be deemed
to be waived, but the judge of any such court may, in his discretion, grant
a venire, notwithstanding the failure of demand as hereinbefore speciﬁed.

199. Sec. 3. That the clerk of any district court in this state may, in
the absence of the judge thereof, adjourn the trial of any cause depending
therein, in like manner as the judge of said court might do if present.
200. SEO. 4. That the forty-ninth section of said act, which is in the
words following, to wit:
“That in cases of trial byjury, there shall he no judgment of non-suit
or discontinuance after the merits of the cause on either side are submitted
to the jury, unless by the consent of both parties,” be and the same is
hereby repealed.

201. Sac. 5. That the constable who, by vi1'tue of an execution issued
out of any district court, levies on any goods and chattels, shall give notice
by advertisements signed by himself, and put up in three of the most
public places in the township or ward where they were taken, of the time
and place they will be exposed to sale, at least ﬁve days before the
time appointed for selling them, and therein describe the goods and chattels
so taken.

262. SEO. 6. That in all cases where any constable shall, by virtue of
any writ of execution or attachment issuing out of any district court, levy
on, attach or take into his possession any goods or chattels which shall be
claimed by notice in writing, delivered to said constable by any other per
son than the defendant, he shall, immediately upon such claim, delay his
sale of the same for the space of ten days, that the said claimant may,
within the said term, apply to the judge of such court for a venire to sum
mon a jury of six lawful men as jurors, to try the right of such claimant
to such property; and it shall be lawful for such judge to issue the same,
and direct a return thereof to be to him made. and to proceed therein as
in other cases of trial byjury; but the claimant shall, in all cases give
notice in writing to the plaintiff of the time and place of the said trial;
but if the said claimant shall not, within ten days, apply to said judge and
have his right tried, as aforesaid, the said claim shall be considered aban

P. L. 1878, p. SN.
Warrant of arrest
not l0 be vacated
or set aside, ex

cept by a justice 01
supreme court.

When trial by
jury shall be
deemed to be
waived.

When clerk may
adjourn trial.

Repealer.

Constable shall
give notice ofsale
of goods and
chattels.

Constable to delay
sale in case of
goods attached
being claimed
by other person

than defendant.

Trial of right oi
properly.

When claim shall
be considered
abandoned.

1252

DISTRICT COURTS.
doncd, and the constable shall proceed as if it had not been made, and
shall not be liable in any action for trespass therefore thereafter.

Slay of proceed
ings for perfect
ing appeal.

Judge not pro
hlblted from prac.

tlclng, except In
appeals.
Clerk not to re
ceive pay for
drawing plead
lugs.

Repealer.

203. SEO. 7. [Amended by Sec. 248, post]
204. SEO. 8. That if the stay of proceedings in cases of appeal, provided
for in the one hundred and seventy-ﬁrst section of said act, shall not exceed
the time provided by law for perfecting such appeal, or such further time
as the judge of such district court shall grant for perfecting such appeal,
and if any appeal shall not be perfected within the time aforesaid, execu
tion may issue in like manner, and be proceeded upon as though no appeal
had been taken.
205. SEC. 9. That section one hundred and eighty-two of said act, which
is in the words following, to wit:
“That the judges of said courts shall not be allowed to practice in the
court of common pleas of the county wherein said courts maybe estab
lished,” be and the same is hereby amended so that the same shall read
and be in the words following, to wit :
[Tliat no judge of any district court in this state shall be prohibited by
reason of his ofﬁce from practicing in any court of this state, except in the
court of common pleas of the county wherein said district court is or may
be established, in cases of appeals taken from said district court.]

206. SEO. 10. That it shall not be lawful for the clerk of any court
created by virtue of the act to which this is a supplement to receive any
pay or reward for framing or drawing any state of demand, plea, rule of
court, or other pleadings, and which is to be used in the court of which he
is the clerk.
297. SEO. ll. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with said act
and with this act be and the same are hereby repealed, and this act shall
take effect immediately.
Supplement.
Approved March 31, 1882.

-‘P. L. 1882, p. M0.
- Judge may deslg
nate person to act

as clerk in case of
-cllsablllty of clerk.

208. SEO. 1. That in case of the illness, absence or disability of the
clcrk of any district court it shall be lawful for the judge of such court to
designate and appoint in writing some ﬁt person to sign the name of the

clerk to and to issue any writ or other instrument out of said court during
the illness, absence or disability of the clerk, and any writ or other instru

ment so signed and issued shall be as valid in law as if signed and issued
personally by such clerk.
Supplement.
P. L. 1884, p. 169.

Approved April 14, 155.1

209. SEC. 1. That in all actions in any district court in this state upon

In sctlons on
notes. &.c., parties
may be designated

bills of exchange, promissory notes or other written instruments, any of

by lnltlal letters or

the parties to which are designated by the initial letter or letters, or some
contraction of the Christian or ﬁrst name or names, it shall be suﬂicient in

contraction of
Dlllllé.

every aﬂidavit to hold to bail and in the process to designate such party
by the same initial letter or letters, or contraction of the Christian or
ﬁrst name or names, instead of stating the Christian or ﬁrst name or names
in full.

All pariles liable
on hill of ex

21C. SEC. 2. That the holder of any bill of exchange or promissory note
instead of bringing separate actions against the parties separately liable

change, &c.. may

be included ln one
lcllon.

Plalnt.lﬂ’to annex
to stale ofdemand
copy of bill or
note.

thereon, may include all or any of them in one action, and proceed to
judgment and execution in the same manner as though all the defendants
were joint contractors, subject, however, to the qualiﬁcations hereinafter

provided.
211. Sac. 3. That in every such action the plaintifff shall annex to the
state of demand a notice containing a copy of the bill or note with the
indorsements, and stating that the action is brought to recover the amount

due thereon; but shall not recover judgment against any several drawer,
maker, indorser or acceptor not served with process, and any joint drawer,
maker, indorser or acceptor may prove in abatement the non-joinder of any
other joint drawer, maker, indorser or acceptor; but judgment may be

1253

DISTRICT COURTS.
obtained against joint contractors, some only of whom have been served
with process, and such judgment shall have the same effect against the
joint contractors as heretofore.
212. SEO. 4. That in any such action judgment may be rendered for the
plaintifff against some one or more of the defendants, and also in favor of
some one or more of the defendants against the plaintifff, according as the
rights and liabilities of the respective parties shall appeal-,either upon con
fession, default or trial ; and any person sued shall be entitled to set off his
demands against the plaintifff in the same manner as though such defend
ant had been sued in the form heretofore used;and whenjudgment shall
be rendered in favor of any defendant, he shall recover his costs against
the plaiutiﬂ' in the same manner as though judgment had been rendered
for all the defendants.
'

213. S1-:0. 5. That if upon the trial of any such action, the whole amount
of the set-off allowed shall equal or exceed the amount allowed to the
plaintifff, then, in the ﬁrst case, the verdict or judgment shall be in favor
of the defendants generally, and in the last case for the excess;and in all
cases the verdict or judgment shall certify the amount allowed to each
defendant as a set-off.

214. SEC. 6. 'l‘hat the rights and responsibilities of the several parties to
any such bill or note as between each other, shall remain as heretofore,

saving only the rights of the plaintifff, so far as they may have been deter
mined by the judgment; and any one or more of the defendants shall be
entitled to the testimony of any co-defendant as a witness in all cases
where he or they would be entitled to his testimony had the suit been
brought in the form heretofore used; and the plaintifff shall be entitled to
the testimony of any defendant as a witness in all cases where he will be
entitled to his testimony against the other parties to the bill or note had
the suit been brought in the form heretofore used.

215. Sac. 7. That whenever an execution against goods and chattels
shall issue in any such suit or action upon a bill or note as is hereinbefore
provided, it shall he the duty of the constable. after making a levy upon
the property liable to execution, to make the money out of property of the
person or persons principally liable as between themselves for its payment,
if it can be done before selling the property of the person or persons
secondarily liable, and for the information of such officer, it shall be the
duty of the clerk of said court, under and by the direction of the judge
thereof. to endorse on the execution the order in which the defendants,

Against whom

judgment
obtained.
liow Judgment

may be rendered.

Any person sued

entitled to set-oﬂ.

Judgment in case
set-oi! allowed.

Rights and re
sponsibilities of
parties to biil or
note between
each other.

Constable to
make money out
oi’ person prin
cipally liable, 6:0.

according to the terms of the bill or note, are liable as between themselves

for its payment; and if judgment be paid by a defendant or defendants
secondarily liable as between themselves, it shall not be considered satis
,fied as against the defendant or defendants liable over on the bill or note
to the defendant making such payment, but he shall have (on application
to the said district court, giving two days’ notice thereof to the other
parties to the judgment, and subject to such regulations as may be
imposed) the full beneﬁt and control of such judgment for the purpose of
compelling repayment, and on this application the said court may order
an issue to try the question in controversy.

216. Sac. 8. That the territorial jurisdiction of evei'y district court
established under the act to which this is a supplement, shall be co-exten
sive with the limits of the county wherein the city or cities are situated in
which district courts now are or may hereafter be established; and such juris
diction shall extend to summary proceedings for the removal of tenants
from the premises situate anywhere within such county, in the manner
provided for by the act to which this is a supplement; provided, that such
extended jurisdiction in all cases shall not affect the right of appeal to the
common pleas on matters of law or fact in cases where the defendant
resides out of the limits where district courts now have exclusi\'ejurisdic
tion. (ja) [See Sec. 269, post]
'
(a) This section does not agply to the district courts of the
city 0!Ne\vnrk. Burns v.
oat, i8 Vr. 222; nﬂirmed, 19 V1‘.

856.

post.

Territorial Juris
diction of district
court coextensive
with limits of
county.

Not to affect right
of appeal.

This jurisdiction was subsequently given by section ‘J69,

1254
In any suit ex
cess over $200 or

Q300 may be
waived.

DISTRICT COURTS.

217. SEO. 9. That in any suit in any district court in this state, whether
created by general or special statute, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff or
for the defendant in a set-off to waive the excess over two or three hundred
dollars, as the case may be. (b)

218. SEO. 10. [Amended by Sec. 233, post.]
When execution
returned unsatis
ﬁed, clerk may
issue alias or
plurles execution.
How executed.

219. SEO. ll. That when, in any case, an execution shall have been
returned unsatisfied,it shall be lawful for the clerk of any district court,

upon the demand of the plaintifff, to issue an alias or pluries execution,
directed to any constable of any county in this state, so designated in the
writ, which shall be executed and returned by the constable to whom it

shall be delivered, in the same manner as if it had been issued out of a
court of competent jurisdiction in his county.

Supplement.
Approved March 23, 18%.

P. L. 1885, p. ll-'5.
Entry of appear
ance In attach
ment by defend
ant before hear
lug.

Fixing ofday for
trial.

Hearing.

Eﬂects, &c., to
remain subject
to lien during
pendcncy of
action.

220. SEO. 1. That the dcfendent in any attachment issued out of :1 dis
trict court, instead of entering his appearance by ﬁling with the clerk a
bond, may, if he so elect, enter his appearance at any time after the exe
cuting of the writ of attachment and before the hearing of the cause by
ﬁling with the clerk a statement signed by the defendant or his attorney
or agent, that the defendant enters his appearance to the action and
intends to defend the same, whereupon the judge, or in his absence the
clerk, shall forthwith ﬁx a day for the trial, not less than three nor more
than ten days from the ﬁling of such statement, and the clerk shall cause
the plaintifff to be notified, either personally or by mail, of the day so
ﬁxed; the plaintifff shall ﬁle a copy of his account or state ofdemand on
or beforc the day so ﬁxed, and thereafter the cause may be adjourned and
shall be conducted in all things in like manner, and the court shall have
like jurisdiction of the parties, as if the action had been commenced by
summons; the effects, rights and credits of the defendant shall remain in
the custody of the officer who executed the writ, subject to the lien of the
attachment during the pendency of the action, but if judgment be given
for the defendant, the same shall thereby he released from such lieu and
restored to the defendant, and the defendant shall have execution for his
costs; if judgment be given for the plaintifff, the court shall award execu

tion thercof against the effects of the defendant, which execution may be
satisﬁed by sale of the effects taken in attachment or of any other effects of
the defendant, and shall be returned in the same time and manner as other
executions are returned; and the provision in the one hundred and ﬁfty

ninth section of the act to which this is a supplement, that the effects shall

not be sold in less than three months. shall not apply to cases whore the
defendant’s appearance is entered under this act.

[See Sec. 195, ante.]

Supplement.
Approved April 4, 183a

221. SEO. 1. [This section, amending Sec. 4, anle, is susperscdcd by
Secs. 234 to 236, post]
Supplement.

P. L. 1886, p. an.

Actions of debt.
dc, w be styled
upon contract.

Approved February 20, 13$,

222. S1-:0. 1. That the twenty-seventh section of the act to which this is
amendatory be amended to read as follows :
[That all suits brought or commenced hereafter before any judge of anv
district court in this state which, under the present practice, would be
either actions of debt, covenant, assumpsit or trespass on the case for

injuries arising from breaches of contract, or the non-performance of duties
arising from contract, shall he in the name and style of actions upon con.

tract, and counts for said causes of actions may be joined in the same suit.]
(0) See Qutmby v. Hopping, 23 Vr. 117.

DIS'[‘R.IC'[‘ COURTS.

1255

223. SEO. 2. That all actions of trespass, trover and trespass on the case
cognizable before any district court in this state, 'sha1l hereafter be in the
name and style of actions in tort, and counts for said causes of action may
be joined in the same suit, any law, usage or custom to the contrary not
withstanding.

Actions oi’ tres
pass, &c., to be
styled actions in

tort.

Supplement.
Approved January 30, 1888.

224. SEO. 1. That every district court now established under the act to
which this act is a supplement, and under the supplements thereto, or

P. L. 1888, p. 11.
District courts to
be continuous
cou rLs of record.

which may hereafter be established, shall be a continuous court of record,

and when any judge thereof shall cease holding his oiiice, every suit and
proceeding pending in said court, whether originally commenced in or
removed to said court, shall be continued and proceeded with by and
before the succeeding judge thereof, who shall also, in any suit or proceed
ing which may have been previously removed from said district court by
appeal or on certiorari, take cognizance thereof and proceed therewith
when the necessity to do so shall occur; provided, that where the trial of PIN!»
any case has been commenced and not concluded, or if concluded the case
has not been decided previous to the entry by such successor upon the
duties of his oﬂice, such trial shall he continued and concluded. andjudg
meut in such case shall be rendered by the judge before whom said trial
was commenced or had, and his judgment therein shall be entered as and
shall be the judgment of said court, unless said former judge by and
before whom the trial of said case was commenced or had shall have died,
or become incapacitated, or shall have removed from the city, then in
either event, the said case shall be tried by and before such succeeding
judge, as if the trial of it had not been previously had or commenced;
and the judge of any district court before whom such trial commenced, if
he shall close and decide the case after his successor shall enter upon his
ofﬁce, shall, unless he is his own successor, receive from and be paid by the

city in which said district court is established, ﬁve dollars for each day that
he shall be engaged in such case, not exceeding three days’ pay in each case.
225. Ssc. 2. That in any district court mentioned in this act, the judge
may adjourn, as in his judgment may be necessary, any suit or proceeding
from time to time, and for such periods as he may decide or direct.

223. S1-:0. 3. That when a judge of any district court mentioned in this

Judge may
adjourn pro

ceedings.
When judge
ceases to he such,

act shall cease to be the judge thereof, the then clerk of such court shall
continue to be the clerk thereof until the appointment of a clerk of such
court is duly made and bond is given and oath of office taken by the clerk

clerk to continue
in oﬂice until
successor is

so appointed.

appointed.

227. Sac. 4. That all books, papers, proceedings, liies, dockets, records
and writings, which have been heretofore or shall be hereafter used in any
of the said district courts by any clerk thereof, shall belong to said court,
and shall, when a clerk of said court shall cease to act, be delivered to the
successor of said clerk.
228. SEC. 5. That the clerk of any of said district courts may make out
transcripts or copies of any books, papers, proceedings, ﬁles, dockets,
records or writings of said court, and certify them under his hand and the

Books, papers,
&c., to be deliv

ered to clerk's
successor.

Transcripts by

clerk to be re
celved in evi
deuce.

seal of said court, which shall, when so certiﬁed, be used as evidence in

all courts of law and equity in this state, with the same force and effect as
if the original from which such certiﬁed transcript or copy was made were
produced.
229. SEO. 6. That the clerk of any district court aforesaid may issue on
any judgment heretofore or which may hereafter be recovered in said court,
an execution, an alias or pluries execution, or any executions after a
pluries execution which may be necessary; provided, that after the lapse
of six years from the recovery of judgment, he shall not issue either of
such executions until an affidavit be ﬁled that the whole, or if part, what

part. of the money recovered and costs, remains unpaid.
230. SEC. 7. That any execution which within one year heretofore has
been, or which shall be hereafter issued out of any of said district courts,

Clerk may issue
executions.

Proviso.

1256
Execution valid
Liter one year
from Issue, &c.

DISTRICT COURTS.
by virtue of which there has been or shall be a legal levy made upon goods
and chattels, shall, after the expiration of one year from the issue of said
execution, remain valid and in full force as against the goods and chattels
so levied upon, until the said goods and chattels levied upon shall be sold

by virtue of said execution or by virtue of any lien or liens upon said goods

In case of death,
&c., of levying

oﬂicer. Judge
may appoint
constable to pro
ceed with exe
cution,
and chattels prior to the lien acquired by the levy under said execution, or
until the amount of the judgment on which said execution was issued and
costs and interest be paid in full; and in case of the death or inability to
act of an ofiieer by whom a levy has been made by virtue of any execution
issued out of said court, upon due proof thereof to the satisfaction of the
judge of said court and of the amount which remains due upon said execu
tion, the said judge may appoint a constable to proceed with and execute
said execution, and such constable so appointed shall have the same
power he would have had, and shall, in all things then yet to be done,
proceed after such appointment in the same manner he would have pro
ceeded if the execution had been originally delivered to him, and he had
done
up to the was
time originally
of his appointment
done
the oﬂicer
to
whom what
saidiexecution
delivered, was
but so
thatbysuch
oﬂicer so
appointed shall not be liable i'or any default or error of the oﬂicer to whom
the execution was originally delivered.

Proceedings in
suits for the
dlspos-session oi‘
tenants.

231. SEO. 8. That whenever in any suit i'or the dispossession of a tenant
or tenants, upon the return day of the summons, or any adjourned day,
there is no appearance by or on behalf of any tenant named therein, or if
any defendant shall appear, but make no defense, the court may, if it

appear that said summons has been duly issued and served, hear and
determine the cause upon the affidavit or aflidarits ﬁled, without the pro
duction of witnesses or other proofs.

Supplement.
P. L. 1888, p. l3‘.!.
Clerks may re

ceive verdicls in
absence ofjudge.

Approved March 6, 1888.

232. Sac. 1. That hereafter the clerks of said courts may receive, in the
absence of the judge of said courts‘, the verdicts ofjuries.
A supplement to an act entitled “A supplement to an act entitled ‘An

act constituting district courts in certain cities in this state,’ "
which supplement was approved April fourteenth, one thousand

eight hundred and eighty-four.
Approved April 23, 188-B.

P. L. 1888, p. 470.

233. Sac. l. That the tenth section [see Sec. 218, ante] of the act to
Judge may order

new trial, and
stay proceedings.

which this is a supplement, be and the same is hereby amended so as to
read as follows :
[That in every case which within one year heretofore shall have been,
or which shall hereaiter be tried in any of said courts, the judge may, if
he sees ﬁt, order a new trial to be had upon such terms as he shall think
reasonable, and in the meantime stay proceedings, and for the purposes of
this act every such court shall be a continuous court of record.] (a)

Supplement.
P. L. 1889, 1). 150.
Judges, how
appointed and
term oi oifice.
Present judges lo

Approved April 8, 1889.

234. SEO. 1. That the judges of said courts shall be appointed by the
governor, with the advice and consent of the senate, and shall continue in
oilice for ﬁve years from the date of their several commissions.

235. SEO. 2. That the judges of said court now in oﬂice shall continue

continue lu oilice.

in otﬁce until the end of ﬁve years from the date of their election by the

legislature in joint session.
Repealer.

[See Sec. 275, post]

236. Sec. 3. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro

visions of this act be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act
shall take effect immediately.
(G) A new trial may be granted in proceedings on a complaint of iorcible entry and detainer.

Krmwe v. Dayton, '22 Vr. 271

DISTRICT COURTS.

1257

Supplement.
Approved June 19, 1890.

P. L. 1890, p. 471.

237. Sac. 1. [This section,amending Sec. 178, ante, is amended by
Sec. 246, pos!._]
Supplement.
Approved February 16, 1892.

Z38.

SEO. 1. That the judge of said courts may designate one of the

constables of said county, or some other suitable person, to attend the
sittings of said court and to preserve order therein; the said oﬂicer shall be
designated as sergeant-at-arms of said court, and shall receive for his ser
vices the sum of one dollar for each day’s actual attendance on the sitting
of said court when such attendance shall be required by thejudge, to be
paid by the mayor and common council of the city where said court may
be established, out of the treasury of said city; provided, however, that
nothing herein contained shall be construed to increase any fees or com~
pensation now ﬁxed by law.

239. Sac. 2. That any person not a constable, who may be hereafter
appointed as sergeant-at-arms in any of the district courts of this state,
when the provisions of this act have been complied with, shall be, during
the term for which said appointment is made, invested with all of the
rights, privileges, powers and duties now appertaining to the oﬁice of con
stable, and that all papers, warrants and process, either civil or criminal,
issued out of any court of record in this state, shall be as binding and
effectual and have the same legal eifect when served or executed by said
ser cant-at-arms as if served or executed by any constable.

4Q. SEO. 3. That for the services performed by them the said sergeant
at-arms shall be entitled to receive the same fees and compensation as is
now or may hereafter be allowed to constables.

241. SEC. 4. That before any sergeant-at-arms shall perform any duty as
constable he shall ﬁle in the oﬁice of the county clerk of the county in
which the district court to which he is attached is located, a bond with two
freeholders of the county in the penal sum and of the same condition as is
now required to be ﬁled by constables, which said bond shall be approved
by the judge of the said district court as to form and sureties, before being
ﬁled with the said county cle_rk.

P. L. 1892, p. E.
Appointment of
sergeant-at-arms.

Salary 91 per.day.

Proviso.

Powers of ser
geanl-at-arms.

Fees and com
pensation.

Sergeant-at-arms
to give bonds.

Supplement.
Passed March 8, 1892.

242. Ssc. 1.

P. L. 1892, p. 64.

This section, amending Sec. 2 of original act, is repealed

by Sec. 249, post.
[See Sec. 187, ante.]
243. S1-zc. 2. [Repealed by Sec. 249, pas-t.]
Supplement.
Approved March Z8, 1892.

244. SEO. 1. That hereafter, notwithstanding any provisions to the
contrary which may be contained in the act to which this is a supplement,
or in any act supplementary thereto or amendatory thereof, thejudge of any
district court in any city in this state may preside in and conduct the busi
ness of any other district court when requested to do so by "the judge
thereof.

245. SEO. 2. 'l‘hat the salaries of all the judges and clerks of district
courts, as provided for in the act to which this is a supplement, shall here
after be paid in monthly installments.

P. L. 1892, p. 320.
Judge ofone dis

trict court may
hold court for
another.

Salaries to be paid
in monthly Install
ments.

Supplement.
Approved April 8, 1892.
I

246. SEO. 1. That section one hundred and seventy-eight [see Secs. 178
and 237, ante] of the above-mentioned act be and the same is hereby
amended so as to read as follows :

P. L. 1892, p. -I25.

1258

DISTRICT COURTS.

Salaries of
judges.

[That the judges of each of said courts shall receive an annual salary as
follows: the judges of each of said courts in cities of nineteen thousand
but not exceeding thirty thousand inhabitants, an annual salary of two
thousand dollars; the judges of each of said courts in cities of thirty thon
sand but not exceeding one hundred thousand inhabitants, an annual
salary of two thousand ﬁve hundred dollars, and the judges of each of said
courts in cities of one hundred thousand inhabitants or over, an annual
salary of three thousand dollars; the said annual salaries shall be paid by
the mayor and common council of the cities wherein said courts may be
established, out of the treasuries of said cities respectively, in monthly

Balarleslof
clerks.

of said judges; and the clerks of said courts in cities having a popula
tion of‘ twenty thousand inhabitants but not exceeding thirty-three thou
sand inhabitants shall hereafter receive an annual salary of nine hundred
dollars ; the clerks of said courts in cities of thirty-three thousand inhabit
ants but not exceeding one hun_dred thousand inhabitants, shall hereafter
receive an annual salary of twelve hundred and ﬁfty dollars, and the clerks
of said courts in cities of one hundred thousand inhabitants or over shall
hereafter receive an annual salary of ﬁfteen hundred dollars; the salaries
of said clerks to be paid in the same manner as thejudges are paid.]

installments, which shall be computed from the (lay of the appointment

Repealer.

247. Sac. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act be
aud the same are hereby repealed.

An act to amend an act entitled “A supplement to an act entitled ‘An

act constituting “district courts" in certain cities of this state,”
approved March ninth, one thousand eight hundred and seventy
seven, which supplement was approved April ﬁfth, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-eight.

P. 1.. ma, p. 250.

Approved March 13, 1893.

248. Sac. l. That section seven of the said supplement [see Sec. 203,
What eonstltutes
lawful service of
summons in
action for re
moval ol‘ tenants.

Proviso.

anle] be amended so as to read as follows :
[That in all actions brought under said act for the removal of tenants,
where admission to the dwelling or premises occupied by the tenant is
denied to the oﬁicer attempting to serve a notice of demand for the pay
ment of rent or surrender of premises or a summons. or where such tenant
resides out of the county in which the demised premises are located, and
there is no person in actual occupation thereof, it shall be a lawful service
of such notice or such summons if the said oﬂicer shall post or afiix a copy
of the same upon the door or other conspicuous part of such dwelling or
premises, and the said officer shall make a return of such service accord
ingly; provirlerl, that in case the tenant shall not be a resident of the
county in which said demised premises are situated and the same shall be
in the occupation of any other person, then said notice of said summons
may he served either personally upon such person or by leaving the same
with a member of his family above the age of fourteen years.]

An act to repeal an act entitled “A supplement to an act entitled

‘An act constituting district courts in certain cities of this state‘
[Revision], approved March ninth, one thousand eight hundred
and seventy seven," which supplemental act was passed March

eighth, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-two.
P. L. 1894, p. 65.
Bepealer.

Passed April X8, 18!-)4.

249. Sac. l. That the supplement to the act entitled "An act consti
tuting district courts in certain cities of this state," approved March ninth,
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven, which supplement was
passed March eighth, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-two [see
Sec. 242, anle], be and the same is hereby repealed, and any district court

heretofore established under the provisions of said supplement and now

DISTRICT COURTS.

1259

existing in any city of this state having less than twenty thousand inhabi
tants according to the last census, is hereby abolished.

[See Sec. 187,

ante] (l)
250. SEC. 2. That within thirty days after this act shall take effect, the
judge oi‘ any district court in any city in this state, which is abolished by
the ﬁrst section of this act, shall ﬁle in the clerk’s oiiice oi‘ the county in
which such city is located, all papers, dockets and records relating to said
district court or to any suits therein pending or determined, there to
remain as records which may be used and certiﬁed in like manner as other
records of said county contained in said clerk’s oiiice.

Clerk shall file all
papers, records,

dtc., in county
clerk‘s oilice.

Supplement.
Approved May l7, 1894.

251. SEO. 1. That in case of any appeal from anyjudgment rendered in
any district court, the appellee may apply to said court to dismiss said
appeal, for the reason that the appeal bond ﬁled on appeal from said
judgment is in any respect defective, or because proper evidence oi‘ the
suﬂiciency thereof has not been ﬁled in said court, and, thereupon, it shall
be the duty of the judge of said cou'rt to examine into the question of the
form, execution and suﬁlciency oi’ said bond and of the evidence thereof,

P. L. 1894, p. 416.
When appeliee

may apply for
dismissal oi‘
appeal.

and if he shall determine that said bond is defective or insuﬁicient, he

shall make an order directing the ‘appellant to ﬁle a new appeal bond
within ﬁve days from the date oi‘ said order, and upon failure to ﬁle
another bond pursuant to said order, the judge may dismiss said appeal;
pro/vided, that at the time of making said application the transcript of said
cause shall not have been sent to the court of common pleas.
252. Sac. 2. That the court of common pleas may permit the appellant
to substitute a new appeal bond in the place of the appeal bond ﬁled and
sent up by any district court;pr0vz'ded, that no delay in the trial of the
said appeal shall be occasioned thereby.

Proviso.

New bond may be
substituted.
Proviso.

XIX. Extended jurisdiction.
An act relative to the jurisdiction and practice of district courts in

this state.
Approved March 21, 1882.

253. SEO. 1. That from and alter the passage oi‘ this act, the jurisdiction

P. L. 1882, p. l95.
Jurisdiction of
district courts ex

oi’ each and every district court established by law in any city of this state, tended (0 debts,
whether by general or special statute, shall be and the same is hereby &c., not exceeding
extended to every suit of a ci\'il nature at law, in which the debt, balance, paoo.
damage or other matter in dispute does not exceed, exclusive oi‘ costs, the
sum or value oi‘ three (3) hundred dollars; provided, that this act shall not
he construed to extend to or embrace any suit or action where the title to
lands and real estate shall come in question. (a)
254. S1-:0. 2. That in all suits where the debt, balance, damages or other In suits for over
matter in dispute is claimed to be above or exceed the sum or value of two QQOO, summons,
&c., to issue to
hundred dollars, exclusive of costs, that all writs oi‘ summons or attach sheriff.
ment, warrant, execution, venire or other process, in any such suit or
action shall issue to the sheriff of the county wherein the city is located, in
which any such district court is established, and shall be issued out of said
courts and returned thereto in like manner as writs out oi‘ the courts oi‘
common pleas in this state.

255. Si-:0. 3. [Amended by Secs. 267 and 274, post.]
(11; In an action brought in the district court. where the mat
ier n dispute is above the sum of 1200, a demand forajnry,

judge trying the case without aiury upon the ground that the

made by the defendant at the proper time, deprives the court

defendant had not waived a trial hyjury. Thejudge proceeded
to try the case without a Jury. and gave Judgment for the

of Jurisdiction to try the cause otherwise than by ajury. Clay
ton v. Olurk, 26 V1-. 539. Such a demand givesihe defendantihe

plainliﬂ‘. Heul,ii1nt the proceeding was in violation of the
constitutional provision t at the right oi trial by jury shall

right to u trial by jury without ‘prepayment of costs, or to have
the action against him di>mlsse . Ib. In an action brought to

remain inviolate and judgment reversed.

Raphael v. Lanr, 27

Vr. 108.

recover a claim oi’ over poo, ihe defendant objected to the
ii) The effect of this repeaier was to abolish the district court in the city oi‘ Bayonne, which court had been created by P. L.

1892, p. 6|.

DISTRICT COURTS.

1260
Statement neces
sary for docketlng
ofjudgments by

clerk ol‘ court of
common pleas.

256. SEO. 4. That at any time hereafter in docketing any judgment from
a district court, it shall only be necessary to ﬁle with the clerk of‘ the court
of common pleas, a statement signedby the clerk of the district court,
under the seal of the court, which statement shall only be required to con
tain the name of the court, the name of the parties, the amount and date
of judgment and date of issue and return of execution, if any, which, when
filed with the clerk of the common pleas, shall have the same force and

lilateiiieiit may be
made any time

lltarjudgment
4

in district court.

Proviso.

effect as a transcript ofjudgment from a district court now has by law ; the
fee to the clerk of the court of common pleas for ﬁling said statement shall
he two dollars, and to the clerk of the district court for certifying the same
fifty cents.
257. SEC. 5. That it shall not be necessary before obtaining from the
clerk of the district court the statement for docketing, that execution on
judgment shall issue out of and be returned unsatisﬁed into the district
court, but that the same may be made and taken at any time afterjudg
ment in the district court, and be of the same force and effect as if execu
tion had been issued and returned as now required by law; provided, that
an affidavit of the plaintifff or’ his attorney shall be ﬁled with the clerk of
the court of common pleas with said statement, setting forth that said
judgment about to be docketed is bona. iide, and is still due and unpaid in
whole or part.

When parties may

recover witness
fees.

258. Ssc. 6. [Amended by Secs. 272 and 273,p0sl.]
259. S1-:0. 7. That upon any judgment for the plaintifff or defendant, or
of non-suit in any district court in this state, where the real amount at
issue between the parties exceeds in debt, demand or damage ﬁfty dolla rs,
the party in whose favor such judgment may be shall recovei his witness
fees for all witnesses actually subpoenaed or sworn, not exceeding ﬁve in
any cause.

1-‘ees ofjurors In
causes exceeding

'

_

26G. S1-:0. 8. That in any case where ajury shall be called by either of
the parties to any cause in any district court in this state, in which the

I200.

debt, damage or other matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the

sum or value of two hundred dollars, the fee of each juror that serves in
said cause shall be ﬁfty cents per day, to be paid as now provided by law
in other cases tried by jury in said courts. (a)
Jurisdlctl 0
attachment ex
lendcil to Q80).

In proceedings for

261. S1-:0. 9. That thejurisdiction of said district courts in all suits or
proceedings in said courts commenced by writs of attachment, shall be and
the same- is hereby extended to all debts or demands due from any non
resident or absconding debtor where the amount of such debt or demand
does not exceed, exclusive of costs, the sum of three hundred dollars.

262. SEC. 10. 'l‘hat in proceedings taken under this act for discovery in

dlscovery, wil

nesses may be ne
quirerl to appear
and testify.

Refusal to obey
suopmna.

Fees of attorney,
clerk, &c., how

recovered.

aid of execution, witnesses may be required to appear and testify concerning
said matters by either party. by process of subpoena ad testiﬁcanduin issued
out of said district court wherein the judgment shall be recorded, and the
judge or commissioner may adjourn the examination from time to time, at
the instance of either party, as may be needful; and the refusal to obey
any subpzsna so issued shall be punished as in case of refusal to obey like
subpoena in actions of debt tried in said court; the attorney, court, clerk,
commissioner and witnesses shall be entitled to the same fees as for like
services in the court of common pleas, which costs shall be recoverable as
other costs in said district court, and, when in favor of the plaintifff, shall
become a part of the judgment, and when in favor of the defendant execu~
tion may issue theref'or.

Defendant taken
on warrant may,
on trial, give testi
mony as to truth

ofsfﬂdsvlts upon
which order was
made.

263. SEO. ll. That when a warrant to take the body of any defendant
shall issue out of any district court in this state, it shall be lawful for the
defendant, upon the trial of‘ said cause, to give testimony as to the truth of
the allidavit or affidavits upon which the order for the warrant was made;
and if it shall appear that the defendant was not. in fact, guilty of the
fraud alleged, it shall be the duty of the court to so certif'y upon the record
of the court, and to make order in said cause that no execution to take

the body shall issue against the defendant ifa judgment pass against him,
(a) See Jranclsco v. Andrews, 6 N. J. L. J. 149.

Raphael v. Lam, 27 Vr. 113.

DISTRICT ooururs.

‘

1261

and in case of such an order, only an execution against the goods and
chattels of the defendant shall issue.

264. SEC. 12. That the jurisdiction of said district courts shall be ex
tended to all suits by or against municipal corporations where the debt,
balance, damage or other matter in dispute does not. exclusive of costs,

Jurisdiction ex
tended to suits by
or against munici
pal corporations

exceed the sum or value of three hundred dollars, and that when any suit mqaoo.
shall be instituted against any municipal corporation, a copy of the sum

mons, precept or such other legal process as may be issued against the said
municipal corporation, shall be left with the mayor or clerk thereof ﬁfteen
-days at least before the time of appearance mentioned therein.

265. SEC. 13. That the ﬁnal decision and determination of any district
court in this state upon any suit where the debt, demand or damage in

-controversy exceeds the sum or value oi‘ two hundred dollars, may be
removed to the supreme court of this state_ by certiorari, at the instance
of either party thereto. for review by the supreme court in the same man

Service of procem.

Where debt, &.c.,
exceeds $200,
Judgment may be
removed to su
preme court by

certiorari.

ner as causes heard and determined in the inferior courts of common pleas
of this state may be heard and reviewed; provided, however, that no reversal
for error of law shall be made, or a new trial granted for the admission or

rejection of evidence, or the refusal of the district judge to grant a new
trial, unless exception to the ruling of the court below was taken at the
trial and is presented to the court in a bill of exceptions, sealed by the
judge; and pr0vided,fu1'lher, that no certiorari shall be allowed until the

Proviso.

Proviso.

piaintiii" in certiorari shall, if he be the defendant below, enter into bond,

to be approved by the justice of the supreme court granting the writ, or a
district court judge, in double the amount of the judgment entered against
him, to the plaintiii' in the action, conditioned for the payment of the judg
ment and costs, and the costs of appeal in case the judgment of the district
court be affirmed in the supreme court. (a)

266. SEO. 14. That the judge_of any district court in any city in this
state may preside in and conduct the business of any other district court

Judge may eon
duct and preside
at any other (lis

in any other city when requested so to do by the judge thereof, and the

trict court.

appointment of all district court judges now in office in any city in this
state is hereby validated and conﬁrmed, whether appointed under a general
or special statute.

Appointments

validated.

Amendatory act.
Approved March ll, 1885.

P. L. 1885, p. B8.

267. SEC. 1. That section three of said act be and the same is hereby
amended to read as follows :
[This section,amending Sec. 255, ante, is again amended by Sec. 274,
post]
Supplement.
Approved March 25, 1835.

268. Si-:0. l. That in case any person subpoenaed as a witness and paid
or tendered the legal witness fee, or served with an order upon petition for
discovery in aid of execution issued out of any district court in any city
in this state, shall refuse or neglect to obey such subpoena, or order. or to
give testimony, or to answer questions as required, or to produce any
books, papers or documents as required, it shall be lawful for the judge oi‘
the district court out of which such subpoena or order shall issue, upon
aﬂidavit being ﬁled with the clerk of such court proving the facts, to issue

P. L. 1885. D. 174.
Proceedings

against person
refusing to obey
subpcsna on pro

ceedings for dis
covery.

(a) When the pialntiffin an action beforea district court, in
volving more than 1200, applies for a oerrtiorm-t to review a
udgment oi’ non-suit rendered therein, it is not necessary for
lm to tender a bond. S5/near v. Wluzrion, 19 Vr. 97. Whether
the defendant resided in the city or county, the remedy for
review otjudgment in district courts, where the debt, demand
or damages in controversy exceeds the sum or value of

exceeded woo by certknuﬁ, must be pursued according tothe
general pract lce of this court upon that writ. and the practice
required by this section. Oohen v. Gartner,23 Vr. 1i0. Such
practice w ll not permit a rule requiring an inferior court,
whose adjudication is sought to be reviewed, to return any
s eciﬂc matter, nor a rule compeiiln a judge to seal an excep

1:100, is by cerﬁorart lo the supreme court, and not by appeal
to the court of common pleas.
(Partner v. Cbh.cn,22 Vr. 125.

ﬂied with the district court an
were not return
a rule
requiring that court to certify whether such exceptions ‘were so

A nmmlamus will not be allowed i0 compeladlstrictjudge
to accept a bond and settle and sign the case for appeal to
the court of common pleas in such cases. lb. On certiorari to
s. district court, by statute, where the amount in controversy

Ib.

exceeds 1200, there should be a bill of exceptions sealed by the
Judge. Larlrin v. Heclcsher, 22 Vr. 133.
The review of a Judg

ﬂnal Judgment.

ment in a suit where the debt or demand in controversy

1892.

tlbn.

ID.

Iflt appeared that exgept ons duly seaiedegad been

sealed and ﬂied, and ii’ so, to return them, would be proper.

In suits iawfbliy pending before a district cour|_\\-here

the debt, demand or damage in controversy exceeds $‘.‘.00,a
writ oi’ cerliorari from the supreme court will not lie before
were decided

Potter v. Frllz, 25 Vr. 436.

The above cases

prior to the pnssaite ofthe act oi’March ‘Mill,

P. L. 1892, p. 257.

(Sec. 270, past.)

DISTRICT COURTS.

1262
May be adjudged
guilty of con

tempt, &.c.

an order to show cause why the person subpwnaed or served with such
order shall not _i_)e adjudged guilty _of contempt for his or her refusal or
neglect to obe_v such subpoena or order, which order to show cause shall be
made returnable not less than ﬁve nor more than ﬁfteen days from the date
of service thereof, and if, upon the return of such order, no suiiicient cause

beshown, the said judge, upon proof of the service of said order being
ﬁled with the clerk of such court, may adjudge such person guilty of con
tempt and may ordera warrant to issue directed to any constable of the
county wherein such district court is established, commanding him to arrest
such person and forthwith convey him before the judge who issued the
same, and the said judge shall thereupon have the power to enforce obedi
ence to such subpccna, and the answering of any question or the pr0duc~
tion of any book, paper or document that may be proper, by imprisonment
in the county jailof the county wherein such district court is established,
or by imposing a ﬁne not exceeding ﬁfty dollars, to be paid for the use of
such city, or by both ﬁne and imprisonment, and such person so adjudged
guilty of contempt shall stand committed and remain in close custody
until such subpoena or order shall be obeyed and performed, and until the
ﬁne so imposed, with the costs of such proceedings, to be taxed by the
judge of such district court, be fully paid, unless otherwise ordered by such
judge; the attorney, court, clerk and ofﬁcer shall be entitledto the same
fees as for like services in the court of common pleas, and any person who
shall willfully and corruptly testify falsely to any material matter upon
oath or aﬂirmation administered by such judge upon such proceedings,
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalties of perjury. (a)

Supplement.
_

P. L. 1886, p. 18.
Territorial juris
diction extended
lo limits of
county.

Passed February 9, 18$.

269. SEO. 1. That from and after the passage of this act the territorial
jurisdiction of each and every district court established by law in any city
of this state, whether by general or special statute, shall be and the same
is hereby extended to and declared to be co-extensive with the limits of
the county in which such city may be, within which any district court or
courts is or are now or may hereafter be established by law. (b) [See Sec.

216, ante.]
Supplement.
Approved March 6, 18$.

P. L. 1886, p. 75.
In actions on con
tract, defendants
may set up defect
in or partiui failure
of consideration.
May recoup
damages.

Proviso.

270. SEO. l. That in actions on contracts, whether under seal or not,
hereafter brought in any of the district courts established by law in any

city of this state, whether by general or special statute, the defendant may
set up as a defense in abatement of damages to be recovered by the plaintifff,

a defect in, or partial failure of the consideration of the contract sued on,
and may also recoup any damages which he may have sustained by
reason of the non-performance or defective performance of any part of the
same contract by the piaintiif; provided, that in all cases where it shall be.

necessary to ﬁle a plea, a notice of the particulars of such defense be
annexed to the plea and ﬁled therewith.

Supplement.
Approved February 11, 1585

P. L. 1888, p. ‘M.
When court of
common pleas to
try cases on

appeal de novo.

271. SEC. l. That whenever in any casein which an appeal shall have
been or may hereafter he taken from thejudgment of the judge of any dis
trict court established in any city of this state, whether by general or
special statute, the judge of said court shall have failed for any reason to

(a) The only authority and jurisdiction conferred on judges
ofthe district court to punish as for contempt, disobedience of
orders in proceedings for discovery, is that contained in this
act. The act affords no warrant or proceedings to line and

imprison as a punishment for disobedience of any order except
those mentioned in the act. Ad!-or v. Tumlmtl &- Ib., 28 Vr. 62.
(In See But v. Smith, 25 Vr. 434.

Raphael v. Lane, 27 Vr. 108.

Gartne-r v. Cohen, 22 Fr. i'.’.5.

1263

DISTRICT COURTS.
settle and sign the case as required by law, within the space of three
months from the time of rendering such judgment, the court of common
pleas shall, upon such appeal, try the case do novo. (a)

[See Sec. 276,

posh]
Amendatory act.
Approved April lo, 1888.

P. L. 1888, p. 4'15.

272. SEC. 1. [This section. amending Sec. 258, ante, is again amended
by Sec. 273, post]

An act to amend an act entitled "An act to amend an act entitled
‘An act relative to the jurisdiction and practice of district courts
in this state,’ approved March twenty-seventh, one thousand eight
hundred and eighty-two," which amendment was approved April
sixteenth, one thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight.
Approved March 18, 1889.

P. L. 1889,11. 56.

273. S1-:c. 1. That section six [see Secs. 258 and 272, ante] of the above
act, as amended, be and the same is hereby amended so as to read as
follows:

[That each oi‘ the judges oi‘ the several district courts of this state shall
have the same power-s,jurisdiction and authority, upon petition for dis
corery in aid of execution, upon the return of any execution unsatisﬁed
in whole or part into any of said district courts, to order the judgment
debtor to appear before the court, or one of the supreme court commis
sioners of this state, and make discovery, on oath, concerning his property
or things in action, before said judge or commissioner, and to make order
forbidding the payment of debts, or transfer of monies or property, due or
belonging to said debtor, to said debtor or any third person; and upon the
taking of the testimony by said judge, or the certiﬁcation by the commis
sioner of the testimony taken by him under the order, to appoint a receiver
of the property and things in action belonging, or due to, or held in trust
for such debtor at the time oi’ issuing the execution, or at any time after
ward, as is now vested in or exercised by any of the judges of the inferior
courts of common pleas of this state; and such receiver, when appointed,
shall have like power, authorities and duties as receivers appointed under
similar proceedings by any of said judges of the inferior courts of common
pleas, except that the judge may make such order when the amount due
on such judgment, including costs, shall be twenty-ﬁve dollars or more;
provided. however, that no receiver appointed by any of the district court
judges shall become vested with the title to or have the power to demand
and receive any of the real property of any such judgment debt0r.] (b)

Powem and juris
diction ofjudges

upon petition
for discovery in
aid of executions .

Proviso.

An act amendatory of an act entitled “An act to amend an act enti
tled ‘An act relative to the jurisdiction and practice of district
courts in this state,’ approved March twenty-seventh, one thou
sand eight hundred and eighty-two," which amendment was ap
proved March eleventh, one thousand eight hundred and eighty

ﬁve.
Approved March 17, 1893.

P. L. 1893, p. 406.

274. Sso. 1. That section three [see Secs. 255 and 267,anle] of said act,
as amended, be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows:
(a) The court of common pleas'did not acquirejurisdlction to
try denavoa case appealed from a district court under this act
merely from the absence of a state of the case settled by the
district judge.
Its jurisdiction lo retry the case only arose
under this act upon the absence of a state of the case agreed on
by the parties, and its being mnde to appear that the district
Ju<:_ge,heinz duly applied to. had failed to settle scans for the

pe od iimiled in that net. Ilzenry v. Burger, B Vr. S56.
(b) A declaration setting up the s polntment oi’ the piaintiﬂ‘
as receiver of the property of the efendmt without showing

therecove
of a {udgment and the return of an unsatisﬁed
execution, s fatal
defective. Lever v. Baley, 27 Vr. 54.
Discovery in aid 0 an execution by a proceeding in a court ot
law is a special ststutor yproceeding, not in the courts of the
common law. The Jurisd ctlon of the court is the creation of
the statute. The powers of thejudge in exercising that Juris
diction are such, and such only, as are conferred by the ststu
and the procedure must be in conformity with that prescri
by the statute. Adler v. 1‘u.1-nlmu <9 6b., 28 Vr. 62.

DISTRICT COURTS.

1264
Pleadlngs where
debt exceeds $200
80 be ﬂied as in
circuit courts, dzc.

[That the pleadings to be ﬁled in said district courts in any suit where
the debt demanded, or damage claimed, actually exceeds the sum or value
oi‘ two hundred dollars, shall be the same as those in the circuit courts of
the several counties of this state, and the practice of such circuit courts,

also, in so far as applicable, shall apply to said district courts in such cases,
excepting, however, cases where there may be some express provision of
law providing otherwise, and the declaration in any such suit shall be ﬁled
within ten days after the return day named in the summons, and the plea
or demurrer of the defendant shall be. ﬁled within ten days after the time
limited for ﬁling the plaintiffi"s declaration; and each succeeding pleading,
until the cause is at issue, shall be ﬁled within ten days after the time
limited for pleading by the opposite party ; and every cause when at issue
shall be noticed for trial within twenty days thereafter, and at least ﬁve
days’ notice of trial shall be given by the plaintifff and served in the same
manner as in the circuit courts of the several counties of this state; and

if the plaintifff shall neglect to notice his cause for trial within said time,
judgment shall be awarded for the defendant as in case of a non-suit, with
costs, unless the court allow further time; and the costs to be taxed in
any such cause shall be the same to the attorney, court, clerk and sheriff
as are taxable in the circuit courts of the several counties in this state;
Proviso.

provided, however, that in case the plaintifff shall upon or within ten days
after the return day of the summons file his declaration and serve a copy
thereof on the defendant or his attorney, the defendant shall plead or
demur thereto within ten days from the date of such service, and in default
thereof the plaintifff may have judgment in the same manner that judgment
by default is rendered in the circuit courts of the several counties of this
state; and judgments by default in other cases for want of or failure to ﬁle
plea or demurrer within the time above limited therefore, may be had and
taken by the plaintifffin said district courts in the same manner as in such
circuit courts.] (a)
XX. Miscellaneous acts.
An act concerning district courts in this state.
Approved Mm-ch 2, 1501.

P. L. 1891, p. 64.
End oi term of
Judges now in
oiﬂce.
Successors, how
appointed.

275. SI-:0. 1. That the judges of all district courts in cities of this state
now in oﬂice shall confine in oﬂice until the ﬁrst day of April, one thou
sand eight hundred and ninety-one, on which day their terms of oﬂice
shall end ; the successors of the judges of said courts now in ofﬁce shall be

appointed by the governor, by and with the advice and consent of the
senate, and shall continue in oﬂice for ﬁve years from the ﬁrst day of
April, one thousand eight hundred and ninety-one; their successors shall
be appointed by the governor, by and with the advice and consent of the
senate. (b) [See Sec. 235, ante.]
An act concerning appeals from districts courts in this state.
Approved March 24,1992

P. L. 1892, p. 257.
Judgment may be
appealed to court

276. SEO. 1. That from any judgment obtained in any district court
established by law in any city oi‘ this state, whether by general or special

oi’ common pleas.

statute, where the debt, demand or matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, be

for a sum not less than twenty-ﬁve dollars, except judgment given by con

Judge of district
court to grant
appeal.

Proviso.

fession, either party may appeal, both as to matter of law and fact, to the
court of common pleas of the county to be holden next after the rendering
of such judgment; which appeal the judge of said district court is hereby

directed to grant in the same manner as appeals are now had and taken in
the court for the trial of small causes ; provided always, that no appeal shall
be granted to remove any judgment entered against the party demanding

(a) In actions in the district court upon s bonrt yids demand
exceeding $200, costs are taxable, although the Verdict is for less
than $100 provided it exceeds $100. Frtlnrism v. A1ld7‘6IL'.\‘, 6

N. J. 1,. . 149. The various items oi‘ costs considered snd de
termlned and bill oi‘ costs in such s case sinned in detail. Ib.

(bi The ist day of April, 1891, was within the term of the in
cumbent oi‘ ihe office at the time of the paasge of this smnue.
Fulton v. Woodward, 25 V1‘. 481.

DISTRICT COURTS:

‘I265

the appeal, for any amount beyond the costs oi suitfvrhere such judgment
shall have been rendered on the verdict oi’ a jury, or on the report of
referees, unless the party shall, at the time oi‘ taking the same, ﬁle an
afﬁdavit made by the party, or in his absence by his agent. stating that the
said appeal is not intended for the purpose of delay, and that the aﬂiaut
verily believes that the appellant hath ajust and legal ground of appeal
upon the merits oi’ the case; which aﬂidavit shall be sent up to the court
to which the appeal is taken, with the other papers in the cause. (a)
277. SEC. 2. That the causes thus appealed to the said courts oi‘ common
pleas shall be tried de novo in said courts, and that the taxed costs in said
courts oi‘ common pleas upon said appeals shall be the sainc as those now
allowed by law in the trial of appeals from the courts for the trial of small
causes in said courts, except that there shall be allowed as the attorney’s

Proceedings and
costs.

fee, to the prevailing party, to be taxed therein, the s_um of ﬁ\'e dollars, in

all causes where the judgment appealed from does not exceed one hundred
dollars, and ten dollars in causes where the judgment appealed from
exceeds the sum of one hundred dollars. (b)

278. SEC. 3. 'l‘hat all appeals under this act shall be taken within ﬁve
days from the rendering oi‘ the judgment, and that they shall be put on
the list i'or trial at the ﬁrst term of the court of common pleas to which
the same shall be appealed ; provided, liou-ever, that if said appeal is taken
within the ﬁve days prior to the beginning oi’ such term, in that case the
said appeal shall be put on the list for trial at the next term thereafter. (0)
279. SEO. 4. That alL acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act be
and the same are hereby repealed, and this act shall take effect imme
diately.

An act relative to the jurisdiction

and powers of district courts

Time for taking
appeal.

Proviso.

Repeaier.

in

this state.
Approved March i7, 1893.

280. SEC. 1. That hereafter suits and actions against foreign corpora
tions may be commenced and prosecuted in any district court oi‘ this state,

P. L. 1898, p. 432.
Manner of prose
cuting suits and
actions against

in the same manner that other suits and actions are commenced therein,

except that service oi‘ the writs and process to be employed shall be made
by the sheriff oi‘ the county in which shall be located the court in which

foreign corpora
tions.

the suit or action is commenced, in the same manner that writs and pro

cess are served in suits and actions against foreign corporations commenced
in the circuit court ofsuch county.

An act in relation to the organization, powers and jurisdiction of
district courts.
Passed February 15, 1895.

281. SEC. 1. That the provisions of an act entitled “ An act to regulate
the practice of courts oi" law, ” approved March tenth, one thousand eight
hundred and ninety-three, and being chapter ninety-seven of the laws of
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-three, and any and all supple
ments thereto, heretofore passed, or hereafter to be passed, be and the
same are hereby extended to any and all district courts, whether organized
under a general or special law.

P. L. 1895, D. 88.
Provisions oi’
former act ex
tended.

(n) This act changed the pi-acticewhich existed under the act
oi‘ 1873 (Newark district court act), and required the common

powered to try the same,viz., with ajury, ifajury be demanded,
and ii‘ no such demand be made, without a Jury. Vubenllnc v.

pleas to enter judgment ﬁnal on an appeal from the district

Bird, Z8 Vr.

court. Joy &Scliger Co. v. Btuin 26 V1-. 518. This act authorizes
an appeal from ajudgment ren ered by the ﬁrst district court

(0) Appeals from a district court are lo be taken within ﬁve
days alterjudgiiient is rendered, and are to be granted ln the
same manneras appeals are taken from justiceS courts. Hrld,
that the action ofthe court of common pleas in permitting an

in the city of Newark for a sum in excess oi’ $200. M1-Gowrm v.
lifelropolitun L!/e Ins. C'o., 28 Vr. 390.
(b) This actimpliediy wafers upon the court of common
pleas ﬂower to try the issues involved ln an appeal case from

up‘peal bond to be ﬂied at a term more than ﬁve days after
Delaney v. Burclclce, 28 Vr. 323.

Ju gment was erroneous.

any d trict court iu the same manner as the latter court is em

80

1266

DISTRICT COURTS.

XXI. Special district courts.
An act concerning the district courts of cities in this state crea.ted1by
special statute.
P. L. 1878, p. 162.
Provisions oi gen
eral act not l0
apply.

Jurisdiction ex
tended to 12001::
every civil suit.

Oolta in landlord
and tenant cases.

Approved March 20, 1873.

282. Sec. 1. That the provisions of an act entitled “An act constituting
district courts in certain cities of this state,”appro\'ed March ninth, eigh
teen hundred and seventy-seven, shall not be held to apply to cities where
in district courts were in existence prior to the passage of said act.

283. SEC. 2. That from and after the passage of this act the jurisdiction
oi’ all district courts created by special statute, shall be and the same is
hereby extended to every suit of a civil nature at law, in which the debt,
balance or other matter in dispute does not exceed, exclusive of costs, the
sum or value oi‘ two hundred dollars. (rt)
284. SEC. 3. That from and after the passage of this] act, in all proceed
ings i'or the removal of tenants, instituted in any district court in the state
established by special statute, the following costs shall be taxed, and no
others:
Summons, twenty-ﬁ\'e cents;
Copy, five cents;
Recording return, ﬁve cents ;

Entering action, ﬁre cents;
Entering judgment, ﬁve cents;
Entering costs, ﬁre cents;
Filing aiﬁdavit, ﬁve cents;

Filing summons, ﬁve cents;
Service of summons, sixty cents;
Trial fee in contested cases, ﬁfty cents;
Trial fee in uncontested cases, twenty-five' cents ;
Order of dispossession, twenty-live cents;

Warrant of dispossession, twenty-ti\'e cents ;
Recording dispossession, ﬁve cents;
Service of warrant, iifty cents;
Swearing each witness, ten cents ;
Vacancies, how
ﬂlled.

Marking every exhibit, ten cents.
285. SEC. 4. That in all cities in this state wherein district courts are
now established by special statute, in case any vacancy shall occur by
reason oi‘ the death, resignation or expiration of the term of office of any

judge oi‘ such courts, such vacancy shall be ﬁlled by appointment by the
governor, by and with the advice and consent of the senate, and the per

Bepeaie r.

son appointed to ﬁll such vacancy shall hold oﬂicefor ﬁve years and until
his successor is appointed and qualiﬁed. (b)
286. SEC. 5. That all acts or parts ofacts inconsistent with the provisions
oi’ this act be and the same are lierehy repealed.

(:1) All action may be instituted in the district court oi‘ New

ark against u ('0rp0rn\lnn i0 recover $200. Joy it" .5"'linr r Cn. v.
Rlu1n,‘.’ﬁ Vr. -'»lS. The district courts oi‘ the city of Newark
have no general jurtsrliciinn over actions fnrsuilutory penalties
beyond (ion. Jﬁx-la v. Vu¢IriL‘1'h00f, 20 Vr. M9. 'i‘hv.-district court
ui’ Newark has jurisdiction in an action on a replevin bond to

render judgment for u penal sum ol$200, with assessment of

the renl sum or amount of damages due for breach of the con
dition ofthe bond. Hood v. Spaelli, 22 Vr. 129.
tb) This section is constitutional. Aithon h special in form
it in general in effect. it removed dlasiml nrily and created
entire lmruiony in the law on the suhjecl. to which it pertained,
and thereby subserved the llhjg-cl of me conglltuugngl gmqmj
xnent. Firtzl v. Silo, 15 Vr. 353.

\

EJECTMENT.

1282

Ejectment.
31'» In use of verdict for defendant and death of plaintiﬂ‘ before

I. SUMMONS AND SERVICE.

judgment.
In use of death of one defendant before Judgment.

. All ﬁctions abolished.
Actions commenced by summons.
Who shall he defendant.

In use of death of sole defendant before trial.

F‘-?§ ?l.9 5‘-.“-3

.° ." °. ‘P.°'.*°"‘ Whom plaintifff may join as defendants.
I-‘orm of summons.
Teste, return and service.
How returned.
Tenant to notify landlord.

Death of sole defendant after verdict.
Death of defendant who defends separately.
In case a surviving defendant also defends.
Proceedings in use of new trial.

III. TRIAL AND JUIKBSIENT.
II. PLEADING AND PRACTICE.

40. Trial, how conducted.

9. Pleadlngs, when to be ﬂied.
l0. Declaration, what to contain.

41. Verdict ofjury for pert.
42. Verdict and judgme it in use possession issevered from

ll. Judgment by default.
12. Form oi plea.

title.
43. If plaintifff’s title expired pending suit.
44. Judgment conclusive.

13. Plea an admission of what.
14. Defendants may defend jointly or separately.

15. Defense may be as to part of premises.

IV. XEBNE PROFITS AND CIBTB.

16. Amendment of description.
17. Landlord may be admitted to defend.

.‘-53. 53-‘ i5s?~

18. How plaintiff then to declare.
19. if plea to part of premises, judgment for residue and dis

Mesne protits, how recovered. V
Action, how brought.
Damages in actions for mesne profits.

Ousts.
Costs of verdict ior whole or part of premises.

continuance.
20. Plaintiti‘ may discontinue.

. Costs on default.

2|. Discontinuance by one of several plaintiﬂs.
Costs on plea to part only and discontinuance.
22. Disclaimer by defendant not in posseuion.
23. Rdraxit by one of several defendants.

V. MIBCELLAN F.Oi'S PROVISIONS.
l. nv .\.\m AGAIXST JOINT TESANT8.

$3

52. Writ of error.
53. Construction of act.

Action by and against joint tenant.

M Control of court over action.
2. mu. or l’AR'l‘lL‘l‘l.ARﬁ.

VI. SCHFIDULE.

Bill of particulars may be demanded.
What to contain.

Form of summons in eJectment.

May be amended.

Form of declaration.
I-‘orm of declaration when landlord, &c., admitted.
I-‘orm of plea by tenant for whole premises.

8. DEATH or r.\n1'|t:s.

§'3?.°¢°¥§

Action not abated by death.
Proceedings in case of death of plaintifff.
Death of one of several plaintiffis after verdict.
Death of sole plaintifff before trial.

Form
Form
1-‘orm
Form

of plea where tenant defends for part, tic.
of plea by landlord who defends separately.
of plea b_v another who defends separately.
of plea by landlord who defendsjointly.

Death of sole plaintifff after verdict.

Form of plea by another who defends jointly.

I. Summons and service.
R. S. 06-i.

An act concerning the action of ejectment.

P. L. 15455, p. ‘Z88.
Fictions abolished.

P. _t.. 1855, p. 2s.-s,

44..
How commenced.
Ib.
\\'ho shall be
defendant.
Amended.

\\'hom plaintifff
may Join as de
fendants.

Revlslon- Approved March 27, 1874.

1. That in actions of ejectment, the consent rule, and all the ﬁctions
heretofore used in such actions, be and the same are ll€l'Ql)_\' abolished.
2. That the action shall he commcncctl h_v summons, in the name of the
person claiming the premises in question, as pl:tintitl'.
3. That the defendant in the action shall he the person in possession, if
the premises are occupied, or some person exercising ownership on the
premises or claiming title thereto, in case they are unocc-upic<l.(a')
4. That the plaintifff may join as a tlcfentlant. with the person in posses
sion any other person who as l£l.ll(ll0l'tl, remztintlerinan, rcversioncr or other
wise may claim title to the premises atlverscly to the plaintitll (b)

(a) If the persons served with notice as tenants in possession
do not defend, the only effect of the judgment against them will
be to turn them out oi’ possession when the execution issues.
Semblr that their names cannot be struck out on their own
application and on the ground that they have no interest. Den,
Ifnnrork V. A itken, ~i Zab. 5-i~i.
(0) A joint tenant or tenant in common may maintain eject
ment against his co-tenant, on proof of ouster. 1)(‘n, I)b¢~"1-I v.
Bmdinr, Spcn. 394. See Izartl v. Borline, 3 Stock. 403. A trustee
may recover from his own cutui qu( (rust, whose only remedy

is in equity.

Brown ads. C-'0/nbs, 5 Dutch- 36.

A party claiming

the legal title to premises and out of possession may, by an
action ofejectment, put to a ﬁnal determination the title of an
adverse claimant who is in possession, if the premises are occu

pied, or who, ifthe premises are unoccupied, exercises acts of
ownership over the same, or claims title thereto. In sucha.
situation there is no inadequacy of the legal remedy which will
lay the foundation for a suit in equity to quit-t the title. &w"p
herd v. Nuvon, is S7010. 'i'.‘.7. The entries oi‘ rent paid by and re
ceiptsgiven lherei'or to persons since (lP(‘.PitSt'.'(l are not admissible
as evidence of adverse pos.'s'e.~'~si0ti. .5‘/mill; v. .lw=_u,‘..’3 Vr.'.’.90.
The hare leira-l title, with no beneficial interest in the land, is
sufiicient to enable the holder to maintain ejectnient, even
aguinstthe pen-ion for whom he holds the legal title. Ibra
nux.o'o~ncrx v Jf)hI'|Rf')7l, 9 Sfrw. ‘Iii. A trustee cannot maintain
ejcctment against his rrstui que frusf when the facts justify a.
presumption that he had surrendered the legal estate to his
cvrstui mu" trust. Ib.

EJEOTMENT.

1283

5. That the summons shall be according to form number one in the
schedule hereto annexed, or to the like eifect ; and shall describe the prem
ises with such certainty as will distinctly apprise the defendant of their
description and situation, so that from such description possession thereof
may be delivered; (a) and if the plaintifff claims only an undivided interest

Form of
summons.
Q 47.

Amended.
Premises, how
described.

therein, it shall also state such interest.

6. That the summons shall be tested on the day it is issued, (b) and may
be made returnable in term time or vacation, and shall be served at least
ten days (0) before its return, on the defendant in person, or by leaving a
copy at his dwelling-house or place of abode with some member of his
family above the age of fourteen years; (_d) and if such service cannot be
made, then the summons shall be served in such manner as the court or a
jud e thereof shall direct.
. That the summons shall in all cases be returned with an aﬂidavit of
the time and manner of service. (e)
8. That every tenant, on whom any summons in ejectment shall be
served for any lands, tenements or hereditaments in his possession shall
forthwith give notice thereof to his landlord, or his agent or attorney, under
the penalty of forfeiting the value of three years’ rent of the premises_in
the possession of such tenant, to the person of whom he holds, to be recov
ered by action of debt, in any court of record in this state.

Teste and return
of summons.
1b.
Amended.
Bow served.

How returned.

Tenant to notify
landlord.
R. S. 85, Q 15.

Amended.

II. Pleading and practice.
9. That the pleadings shall be ﬁled within the times limited for ﬁling
the same in personal actions ; (g) and the practice and proceedings shall be
in all respects in conformity with the practice in personal actions, so far as
the same may be applicable, unless otherwise specially provided
IQ. That the declaration shall describe the premises claimed with the
same certainty as the summons, and shall state the time when the plain
tiﬂ"s right to the possession thereof accrued,(h) and may contain several
counts; and shall be according to one of the forms of declarations con
tained in said schedule, as the circumstances oi‘ the case may require, or
to the like effect.
11. That if no plea be ﬁled within the time limited, the plaintifff shall be

entitled to a judgment that he recover possession of the premises claimed
in the declaration, upon which a writ of possession may issue. (i)
12. That the plea shall be according to one of the forms of pleas con
tained in said schedule, as the circumstances of the case may require, or to

Pleadings, when
ﬂied.
P. L. 1855, p. 288,

Q 49.
Amended.
Declaration, what
to contain.
Ib., Q 50.

Judgment by
default.
Ib., Q 55.
Form of plea.
1b., Q 51.

the like eifect, and, under such plea, the defendant may give in evidence

any lawful defense to the action, not inconsistent with the other provisions
of this act. (Ic)
(fl) A lot deacribedas *' about ﬁve chains and twenty-live links
in depth," is sufficient.

White v. Den, Woodnrﬂ} 4 Zab. T51.

But "hounded, on one side, on other lands oi‘ the piaintlﬂ"s,"
is faulty. Stewart v. Cﬂiilllllt and Amboy Rnilrunrl (io., 4 Vr.
iiil. such nnceriainty will not be corrected or made the
grouud ofinlerference in equity. S. C., 3 C. L‘. Gr. 489. Where

the ii'\iP location of the boundary line between East and West
Jersey dividing two townships was uncertain, the court ordered
the name of the township to be struck out oi‘ the description.
Keen ads. I):-n, S(IJ'llI7l, 2 Hur. 3l.'i.

(Ii) The time of issuing the declaration may be proved by
parol. Dan, Sham v. Hamulnn, 7 Hat. 109.
(4') The mode of computation is i.0 include the day oi‘ service
or appearance and to exclude the other—bolh days are excluded
where the statute requires enflrr days. Den, Dray v. Drake, 8

Hal. 303
(1liS('i‘V|C2 upon the wife of the defendant, "at the dwelling
house on said premises," where it was evidentthe defendant

had notice of such service. is good.
137.

Den-irkami v. Whiz», 3 Vr.

It may be served by s special deputy.

Bulimrn-Iirr, 7 . I'r. I76.

Ktorppinp ads.

A declaration served by the lessor of

the plnlntifi held good.

Den, Auben v. Bridgcwall-r Copper

the practice act. Hunt v. O'Neill, 15 Vr. 564. The notice in
doraed need not contain the ﬂie-mark of the declaration, nor
the dale of the service.

lb.

Hugha ads. Gzoper, i0 Vr. 445.

1-hi The time stated must be the time when the right actually
existed or accrued. Vreetand v. Ryrrson, 4 Dulrh. 205. See
Den, Bray v. Afrﬂharuz, 1 Gr. 85. Den, Obert v. B01-di'ne., Spen.
m.uhTi}emdu:;2 of the dgmiss is 8g'i:zi'l\‘.i8|2Jl9. Den. Denny v.
‘

,

.

10.

Den.

oover V.

rp,

South. ‘B50 (I1).

It

does not follow that because in a declaration the piainiit'i‘s
right of possession is averred to have accrued more than
twenty years
, that his right ofactlon is gone : to have pro

duced this resu t, there must have been an ad verse possession
covering the statutory period.

Vnncu IV‘ v. Rook, ii V12 26.

(l) But not several years aﬂer the service of the declaration
and after the demise has run out.

D4-1|, Rutlmgrm-ti v. 1-blnrr

Span. Z09. Upon affidavit of merils,_iudi.yment may be opened
and execution stayed. Dm, I.” v. Evaiil, Cbxc 201. hm,
lIgt‘IaerB\'r. Bail], Pen.
“lam, -;'h;ppard v.
PO
, 2 Hut.
.
cm
s. Dm.
n,
far. 313. Den,
pino v. Lic
Allialzr 4 Wash. 0. (1.393. A iudfment by deisult will not be
set aside on the ground of surpr se and merits, ii‘ it appeared

that the defendant has been guilty of iaches. Ifilﬂflﬁl ads.

01., 5 Hal. 237. Service oi‘ summons upon the tenant in posses

(boner. l0 Vr. 445.

sion is not required. Hugh»: ads. Onprr i0 Vr. 445.
(e) The lﬂidavit is necessary whether ihe service be made hy
the sheriff or a third person
Klocppinu ads. Qrllmnchvr, 7 V1".
I76. it may beamenried. Den, Ely v. Applrgate, 7 Hal. 32i.
lg) The declaration must be ﬂied within thirty days after the
return day of the summona,nnd not within rhirtﬂdnys after

I (k) ’l‘he dei'end‘anlt mgy give lnievidencs only titlguwhicli con
ers a presentrg t 0 possesson. Smoa.r v.
mden and
Amlmy Railroad 00..-1 Vr. ii5. It is not necessary that the
deffndraiit shou‘id pi"]ove‘ti1tle in hi_rni;eli';l i119 l\t\}'_ill‘;1eieni the

the expiration of the twenty days within which t e landlord
may be admitted to defend. I/or v. ('un.w0ty,2 Dutch. 209. If
the declaration be ﬂied in season, and a copy served. the
defendant must plead within thirty days aﬂer service, if the
copy have indoned upon it the notice required by section 106 of

scion

y

rov ng i at

Burnh-nm,gl Vr. 2.81).

l

B out 0

i. e

uni

.

enrtinpa v.

The mere right 0? way over the locus

in qua will notjustify its exclusive possession by the
rson to
whom that riirht may belong, and its existence wil not con
stitute a suiiicient defense to an action of ejectment by the

owner oi’ the fee.

Burnelt v. Oiranc, 27 Vr. 285.

EJ ECTM EN T.

1'2-‘#4
"\.
What plea admits.
1b., Q 5;‘.
Amended.

May dclcnd joint
ly or separately.

Defense may be as
to part.
Ib., Q 5l.
Amendment of
lnsuﬂlclent de

13. That the plea of the defendant shall, for the purposes of that action,
be an admission that he was in possession of the premises for which he
defends, or that he claimed title thereto, at the time of commencing the
action.
14. That the defendants named in the summons may plead to and defend
the action, either jointly or separately.
15. That the defendants, or either of them, may defend for a part only
of the premises, and when for a part, it shall be described in the plea with
the same certainty as is required in the summons.

16. That if the premises be not described with suiiicicnt certainty in the
declaration or plea, the court or judge may order it to he amended so

scriptlon.
1b., Q 53.

as to be so described, and if either party fail to comply with such order,
judgment may be entered as for want oi‘ a declaration or plea, according

IJIldl0l'd may be

admitted to de
fend.
1b., Q 48.

to the circumstances of the case.
17. That the landlord ofa tenant in possession ((1) or other proper person
(b) may by leave of the court or a judge, be admitted to appcar and defend
the action, in all cases where the same would have bccn allowcd hct'cto€orc;
provided, the application therefore be made in twenty days after the re urn

day of the summons, or within such further time as may be granted by
the court or a judge, and ﬁve days‘ notice of such application, and of the
How application
made.

taking of aﬂidavits to be used thereon, be given to the plaintiii; and the

landlord or other person admitted undcr this section to defend, in respect
of property whereof he is in possession only by the tenant, shall state, in
his plea, that he defends as landlord, and shall be at liberty to set up such
defense as a landlord has heretofore been allowed to set up, and no other.

"How t0 declare
and plead iflsnd
lord admitted.
Ib., R 50, 51.
Plea may be to
‘part ol premises.
1b., H55.
‘Discontinuance an
'10 that and judg
‘ment for residue.

Plalntllf may

discontinue.
Discontinuance
by one ofseverai
plnlniilT:4.

1b., Q 73.
Defendant not in
possession may
disclaim.
If disclaimer
allowed, to be en
tered of record.

Retmxit by one oi
several defend
ants.
1b., Q 74.

18. That if the landlord or any other person than the defendant named
in the summons be admitted to defend the action, the plaintifff shall declare
against him and the defendant named in the summons, and he may join
with the tenant in possession in the defense, or they may defend separately.
19. That if a plea be ﬁled limiting the defense to a part only of the
premises, the plaintifff shall be entitled to a judgment that he recover posses
sion of the part not defended for, upon which a writ of possession may
issue; and where a part only of the premises are defended for, the plaintitl‘
may enter a discontinuance of the action as to that part, and enter judg
ment for the residue, without thereby becoming liable to pay costs to the
defendants, or any of them.
20. That the plaintifff may, at any time, discontinue the action, as to
any or all of the defendants, upon payment of his or their costs.
21. That if one of several plaintiffs desires to discontinue, he may apply
to the court or a judge to have his name struck out of the proceedings,
which may be ordered upon such terms as the court or judge may think
just, and the action shall thereupon proceed at the suit of the other plaintiﬂ“.
22. That any person made a defendant, who is not in actual possession
of the premises at the commencement of the action, may appear at any time
before the time for pleading has expired, and disclaim all right or title in
or to the premises, and thereupon such disclaimer, if allowed by the court
or a judge, shall be entered on the record, and the defendant shall have
judgment that he recover his costs of the plaintifff, and the plaintiﬁ shall
as against such defendant be entitled to a judgment forthwith that he
recover possession of the premises. (c)

Z3. That if one of several defendants, who defends separately for a por
tion of the property, retracts his plea, and confesses the plaintifff ’s action
as to such portion, the plaintifff may forthwith enter judgment, and issue
execution for the recovery of the possession of that portion, and for the

(a) The court will sdmltaperson todefend as landlord where
rson ls connected with the
it appears that the title of such
posaeuslon oi‘ the occupant, and ex ted prior to the commence
ment of the action. Den, Layton v. Qoupe, 1 G1-.66,2 Gr. 497.
Or where the tenant refuses to appear. Den v. Emu): l Har.
488. His right to be so admitted must be shown by aﬂldavit or
other competent evidence. I11-n, Didriamn v. Leaning, 6 Hal.
185. Where the landlord defends without the tenant who does
r, it is not neceasary to prove the defendant or his
not up
tenant n possession of the premises. Dal, lﬂuiarruon v. Snow
Illll, l G1‘. %.

(b) A mortgagee may be admitted to defend, although the
mortgage became due after the action was brought.

Nallum v. Ilm, 1 Hal. 478.

Den,

ln ejectment by a purchaser ata

sheriff 's sale, against the defendant in execution, who is tenant

in possession, the person under whom such tenant entered,
upon a contract for a purchase, or the legal grantee of such gs
aon, may be admitted. Dm, Vanclcve v. Green, Spcn. I71.
,
also, (,7lance v. Slewnrd, Pim. ‘O29.
(c) See Hughes ads. bbopcr, 10 Vr. 445.

1285

EJECTMENT.
cost,occasioned by the defense relating to the same, and the action may
proceed as to the residue; provided, that if any other defendant defends
for the same portion, then the plaintifff shall not be at liberty to issue
execution for the recover_v of the possession of that portion, until he has
recovered a judgment against all the defendants who defended therefore.
1. BY AND AGAlNS'l‘ JOINT TENANTS.

24-.. That if the action be brought by one of several joint tenants or
tenants in common or coparceners, any co-tenant or coparcener defending
the action may give notice with his plea, that he defends as such and
admits the 1'ight of the plaintiﬂ' to an undivided share of the property
(stating what share), but denies an actual ouster of him from the property
which notice shall be copied as a part of the circuit record, and recorded
with the pleadings; and upon the trial of such issue, the additional ques
tion of whether an actual ouster has taken place shall be tried; and if,
upon the trial of the issue, it be proved that the defendant is such joint
tenant, tenant in common, or coparcener, with the plaintiﬂ', and no such
actual ouster shall be proved, then the plaintifff shall be non-suited, with
costs; but if it shall be proved either that the defendant is not suchjoint
tenant, tenant in common, or coparcener, or that an actual ouster has

Joint tenants‘
aclion, how prose
outed and cle
fended.
Ib., Q 60.
Denial of ouster.

Proceedings at
trial.

taken place, then the jury shall so ﬁnd by their verdict, and the plaintifff
shall have judgment, in accordance with the verdict, for the recovery of
possession and costs. (a)
0
do Bl LL OF PARTICULA RS.

25. That after issue joined in ejectment, either party may demand in
writing of the other a bill of particulars of his claim or title to the premises
in question ; and such bill of particulars shall be delivered in twenty days
alter the same shall be demanded, or within such further time as the court
or a judge on good cause shown may grant, and in default thereof no
evidence of such title shall be given on the trial. (b)
26. That the bill oi‘ particulars shall include an abstract of such docu
mentary evidence of title as the party may intend to give in evidence on
the trial ; and if any such documents may by law he recorded, it shall also
state where they are recorded, or if not recorded, then it shall include copies
of such thereof as are in the possession of the party, with the name or
names of the subscribing witness or witnesses, if any.
27. That the court or ajudge may, upon good cause shown, allow either
party to serve an amended bill of particulars; but in all cases the evidence
oi‘ title shall at the trial be conﬁned to the matters contained in the bill of
particulars.
'
*

Bill ofpartlculars
Ib., Q 56.

\\'hat to contain.
Ih., 2 56.

May be amended.

Ib., 9 as.
Evident».

3. Di-J.=\'l‘ii or P.-\it’1‘iES.
28. That the death of a plaintifff or defendant in ejectment shall not

Action not abated

by death.

cause the action to abate, but it may be continued as hereinafter provided. 1b., 1 61.

29. That in case the right of the deceased plaintiﬂ' shall survive to
another plaintifff, a suggestion may be made of the death, which suggestion
shall not be traversable, but be subject to he set aside if untrue, and the
action may proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintiﬂ; and if such sug
gestion bc made before the trial, then the plaintifff shall have a verdict, and

recover such judgment as aforesaid, upon its appearing that he was entitled
to bring the action, either separately orjoiutly with the deceased plaintifff;
la; if such joint tenant defends for the whole premises. it is
an admission of ouster and the plalnilif will recover whatever
his proof shows he is entitled to. Brmvn ads. Chmlur, 5 Dull‘)!
M. ﬂee Dim v. Brands, 8 Gr. 465. Proceedings where some oi’
the tenants in common reside out oi‘ the stale and ejecunent is
brought in a slate court. 1-tr parlr Turner, 8 Wall. Jr. 258.
(b) When the declaration is general and lhe deiendant la in
doubt for what the plaintifff means to proceed, the latter may

'

Proceedings in

case oi’ death of
pi ui n ii if.

0., Q 02.
Where right sur

vives l0 co
pluintiﬂ‘.
r"r‘

be compelled by rule to specify the preml=es smnrhl to be recov
ered. Dm, Phillipa v. Phillipa. i Z4111. 436. Aud the party is
precluded hy its delivery from selling up any oiher title. Gru
ham v. ll’/rltrly. 2 Dutrh. %. When a bill oi‘ particulars is

demanded. u plaintifff is not required by the statute to give
notice to his adversary of the docunienls which it may he-come
necessary i'or him to use in rehutial. Jililler v. Mead, 10 l'r. 588.

1286
Where right does
not survive.

Death of one oi’
several plsintiﬂs
after verdict.

n>., Q ea.

Death of sols
plaintifff before
trial.
Where right does
not survi\'e.
lb., I 6-I.

Action continued
in name of legal
representative.

Death ofsole
plaintifffattcr

verdict.
1b., 1 B5.
Judgment to be
entered.

EJECTMENT.
and in case of the death before trial of one of several plaintifffs, whose-right
does not survive to any other of the plaintifffs, if the legal representatives
of the deceased plaintifff shall not become a party to the action, in the
manner hereinafter provided, a suggestion may be made of tltc death,
which shall not be traversable, but be subject to he set aside if untrue, and
the action may proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintifff, for such share
of the property as he is entitled to, and costs.
30. 'l‘hat in case of a verdict for two or more plaintifffs, if one of such
plaintifffs die before execution executed by delivery of possession thereupon,
the other plaintifff may, whether the legal right to the property shall
survive or not, suggest the death in manner aforesaid, and proceed to
judgment and execution for recovery of the possession of the whole of
the premises in question to which the right of possession may be found
by the verdict; but nothing herein contained shall affect the right of the
legal representative of the deceased plaintifff, or the liability of the sur
viving plaintifff, to such representative; and the entry and possession of
such surviving plaintifff, under such execution, shall be considered as an
entry and possession on behalf of such representative, in respect of the
share of the premises in question to which he shall be entitled as such
representative, and the court may direct possession to be delivered accord
ingly.
31. That in case of the death before trial (a) of a sole plaintiﬂ', or of one
of several plaintifffs whose right does not survive to any other plaintifff, the
legal representatives of such deceased plaintifff may, by leave of the court,
enter a suggestion of such death, and that he is such legal representative,
and the action shall thereupon proceed; and the truth of such suggestion
shall be tried on the trial of the action, together with the title of the deceased
plaintifff; and such judgment shall follow upon the verdict in favor of or
against the person making such suggestion, as is hereinbefore provided with
reference to a judgment for or against such deceased plaintifff.
32. That in case a sole plaintifff die after a verdict in his favor, and before
execution executed by delivery of possession thereou,judgment shall never
theless be entered in his favor, and have the same effect as if entered in his
lifetitne; and the court, upon suggestion of such death, and application of
the legal representative of the deceased plaintifff, may order that n writ issue
for the delivery to such representative of the possession of the premises re
covered, and the same shall be delivered accordingly, subject however, to

Costs.

In case of verdict
for defendant and
death oi‘ plaintifff
before judgment.
Ib., Q 66.

Judgment to be

such terms as the court may impose; and the personal representatives of
such deceased plaintifff shall have like remedies for the collection of the
costs recovered by such judgment as they would have upon any other judg
ment for money in favor of said deceased.

33. That if, after a verdict in favor of a defendant, a sole plaintifff, or
one of several plaintifffs, die before judgment, the defendant shall never
theless he entitled tojudgment as if no such death had happened; and in
case of a sole plaintifff, the defendant may proceed for the recovery of his
costs, in like manner as upon any other judgment for money, against such
deceased ; and in case of several plaintifffs, the defendant may have execu

entered.

tion against the surviving plaintifff for his costs; and if, alter such verdict

F.xerutlon for

in favor ofa defendant, and beforejudgment, he shall die, judgment shall
nevertheless be entered in his favor, and have the same effect as if entered
in his lifctimc.
34. That in case of the death before judgment of one of several defend
ants who defends jointl_v,a suggestion may be made of the death, which
suggestion shall not be traversable, but be subject to be set aside if untrue,
and the action may proceed against the surviving defendant to judgment

costs, bow issued.

Proceedings in
case nfdeath of
one defendant
before judgmen t.
Ib. , E 67.
Action to proceed
against su rvivor.

and execution; but if such death happen before trial, the court,

in

its

discretion, may order that notice be given to the legal representatives of
such deceased defendant to appear and defend the action within a time to
be litnited by the court, the notice to be served in such manner as the

(a) The death oi the plaintifff's lessor after notice of trial, is no bar to the trtal.

Dru, Th-rll v. Say-re, Pen. ‘$98.

I
. . 1‘;-\\ U\'
-, -,\\\

court may direct; and in case such representative appear and plead he
shall plead the same plea, and the same proceedings may be taken against
him as if he had been originally admitted to defend the action; and if no
such order be made, or if one be made, and such representative do not

appear and plead within the time so limited, and an affidavit be ﬁled of
the due service of such notice, then the plaintifff suggesting the death, in
manner aforesaid, may proceed against the surviving defendant to judgment
and execution.
35. That in case of the death of a sole defendant, or of all the defend
ants, before trial, a suggestion may be made of the death, which suggestion
shall not be traversable, but be subject to be set aside if untrue, and the
plaintifff shall be entitled to a judgment for recovery of the possession of
the premises in question, unless some other person shall appear and defend
within the time to be appointed for that purpose by the order of the
court-, to be made on the application of the plaintifff; and the court, upon
such application, may order that the plaintifff shall be at liberty to sign
judgment within such time as the court may think ﬁt, unless the legal
representative of the deceased defendant ordefendants shall. within such
time appear and plead to the action; and such order may be served in
such manner as the

\\,
~ , .'I1.n
-iii,-i\\~="§(

EJECTMENT.

But if defendant
die before trial,
court may direct

his legal repre
sentative to
appear.

In case of death of
sole defendant
before trial.
1b., Q65.
Plainliﬂ‘ shall
have judgment

unless some other
person snail ap
pear and defend
as ordered by

court.

court, under the circumstances may direct; and in

case such person shall appear and plead he shall plead the same plea, and
the same proceedings may be taken against him as if hehad been originally
admitted to defend the action; and if no plea be ﬁled within

the

time

limited then the plaintiﬂ‘, upon ﬁling an aﬂidavit of the due service of such
order, shall be at liberty to sign judgment pursuant thereto.
36. That in case of the death of a sole defendant, or of all the defend
ants, after verdict against him or them, the plaintifff shall nevertheless be

entitled to judgment as if no such death had taken place, and to proceed
by execution for the recovery of possession without suggestion or revivor,
and to proceed for the recovery of the costs in like manner as upon any
judgment for money against such defendant or defendants.
37. That in case of the death of one of several defendants, who defends

separately for a portion of the premises in question, for which no other

In case of death
of sole defendant
after verdict.
Ib., Q 69.

In case of death
of defendant, who
defends sepa

defendant defends, before trial, or after a verdict against him, the same
rarely.

proceedings may he taken as to such portion as in case of the death of a
sole defendant, or the plaintifff may proceed against -the surviving defend
ant in respect of the portion of the premises in question for which he
defends.

38. That in case of the death before trial of one of several defendants
who defends separately in respect of property for which a surviving defend
ant also defends, the court, at any time before the trial, may order that
notice be given to the legal representative of such deceased defendant to
appear and defend the action within a time to be limited by the court, the
notice to be served in such manner as the court may, under the circum
stances direct; and in case such representative appear and plead, he shall
plead the same plea and the same proceedings may be taken against him,
as if he had been originally admitted to defend the action; and if no such
order be made, or if one be made and such representative do not appear
and plead within the time so limited, and an aﬂidavit be ﬁled of the due
service of such notice, then the plaintifff suggesting the death, in manner
aforesaid, may proceed against the surviving defendant to judgment and
execution.
39. That if, after verdict, a new trial be granted, then, for the purpose
of preventing an abatement of the action, the same proceedings may be
had as if there had been no trial.

Ib., Q 70.

In case of defend
ant who defends
separately in re
spect to property
which surviving
defendant also
defends for.
1b., E 71.
Court may order
representative to
appear.
Ifno order or ap
pearance, action
to proceed
against survivor.

Proceedings in
case of new trial
granted.
Ib., Q 7'2.

1-1.1 EL‘ 'r.\1 1-:.\' '1‘.

1288

III. Trial and judgment.
49. That after issue is joined, the parties shall proceed to the trial as in

Trial.
1b., Q 57.

other actions. (a)

Ifdefendant does
not appear.

if plaintlffdoes
not appear.
if both parties

appear.

If the plaintiffi' appears at the trial, and the defendant does not, the jury
shali render a verdict of guilty against the defendant, without any proof
of title by the plaintifff.
if the defendant appears, and the plaintifff does not, the plaintifff shall be
non-suited.
if both parties appear, the question at the trial shall be (except as
hereinafter provided), whether the plaintifff or plaintifffs, or either, and
which of them, is entitled to recover the possession of the premises, and

Verdict ofjury

for part.
1b., Q 57.

whether of the whole or of part, and if of part, then of which part.
41. That if a verdict be i'otmd for the plaintifff or plaintifffs, or either of
them,for the whole or a part, the jury shall, by the verdict, particularly
specify such part, (b) and judgment shall be entered thereon, that he or
they reco\'er the possession of the same, either in whole or in part, as the
case may be, with costs, upon which a writ of poscssion may issue. (c)

Yerdict and judg
ment in case pos

semion is severed
from title.

Q

Ifpl|\lntifY‘s title
expired pending
suit.
Ib.. I 58.

42. Provided, that if it shall appear at the trial, that the plaintifff is
entitled to the possession of the premises or any part thereof, but that the
title thereto (other than the mere possessory right) is in some one of the
defendants who, as landlord, remaindorman, l'e\'('l‘SiOli0l' or otherwise, has
been made a defendant by the piaintiii, the verdict shall be, that the
plaintifff recover possession thereof, and that the title (other than such
possessory right) is in the defentiants or some one oi‘ them, as the same
shall be specially found; and judgment shall be entered thereon in pursu
ance of such verdict, and a writ of possession shall thereupon be issued
accordingly.

43. That if at trial the title of the plaintiii" shall appear to have existed
as alleged in the declaration, in such manner that the plaintifff or plaintifffs,
or one of them, was, at the commencement of the action, entitled to
recover possession of the premises in question, or of some part thereof,
but shall also appear to have expired at the time of the trial, the plaintifff
or plaintifffs so entitled shall, notwithstanding such expiration, be entitled
to a verdict, according to the fact, that he was so entitled at the com

Judgment con
elusive.
Ib., Q 77.
Amended.

Saving rights of
infants, lunatics,
&c.

mencement of the action, and to a judgment accordingly, with his costs of
suit; and as to the premises claimed, the judgment shall be, that the
defendant go thereof without day. (d)
44. That a judgment in an action of ejcctment, commenced after this
act takes effect, shall be conclusive, as to the right of possession, and the
title to the premises (as the case may be), as the same has been established
by such judgment, upon the party against whom it is recovered, and upon
all persons claiming from, through, or under such party, by title arising
after the commencement of such action; prowdvti, that if any person
against Whom such judgment is recovered shall be, at the time of its‘
reco\'ery, an infant, idiot or lunatic, the judgment shall he no bar to an
action commenced by such person, or anyone claiming from, through,
or under such person, within three years after the removal of such
disability. (1')

(rt) The cause may be referred. Dm, (‘rrmmer v. Ihylor, Pen.
‘S75. Dm v. Brnnzla, 3 Gr. 4&5.
(In The plnlntiffniny recover several distinct tracts, claimed

under dill‘:-rent titles, if from all he has been uulatvlnlly ejected
h_\' the saute defetidunt.

Din, li'i'llinm.ton v .S‘nozt'hlll, l Gr. ‘L2.

Iftwn or more persons holding separate possessions are united
in the declaration and plead jointl_v,jud|.zment may be given
against I-hem separately, if their separate possessions are found
by the jury. I0. Bog/(:1-:1 v. Chi/or, 4 Iihsh. C‘. C. 38. if the
verdict be for an entire furm,judgment cannot be rendered for
a part only unless by consent. Den, Olmrt v. Hnmnzel. 3 Hm: 73.
(ri The plainiiﬁ in ejcctmem, upon his writ of ]')Oi>‘>.<13§Sili|I,
must point out to the oiiicer the premises to which he lias estab

lished his title. and take posessrion at his

eril.

Den, Jiv

Andrmvs v. 0‘lInnlin, 3 Ilar. 127. The serv cc of a writ of
Iuzbu-n,f(|v-£11.: must be by putting the tenant out of and the
plaintifff into the house, if there be one on the wemlses. Hm,

Smnlltmod v. Ii!/»ore>, 1 Hm‘. 497. Proceedings y defendant to
obtain restitution. Dl7l, Ilirl.-it v. J0/UIJOTI, 7 Hul. 275.
(Ll) A plaintifff in ejeclment, having a defeasible title, is enti

tlcd to It £1-neraljtuilzmenl if his llllc has not expired or been
determlm-d at ll|t- time ofthe trial. This '~4:t'iiu||, which author
i7.t-s it :<pt~cinl jtttigtm-tit, applu--t nni_\' to case-~< in which the
pluiutiii 'N title hits, in fact, 1-.\plred pi.-ndl|u_' the suit. Hunt \'.
()'.\'rill, lﬁ i'1'. Slit.
tr‘; Jutlgnient was not conclusive upon the rights of the par
ties \\'lli'i'\! the suit was cur|tul»_-tit'1>ti |1rv-\-i-m~xtotlu- pnrwtpze of
this section (.\lurch l7th. lK.55,|. Hm lilm-1-mu v. I\'i)|, 2 Dutrh.
3-52. Although at sin-.:le l'l*(‘ii\'e'|')', if the right was not fhriher
C<lilH‘i)\‘(*l'l4‘li nt law, was l‘l'L(atI‘li('(i in equity 2L\ tlecisive. Olwrl
v. (jIn‘l'l. 2 ~\‘!w'/i-. EN, I Imu. 42.3, The O])\‘I';liit|il of this l('Cli0!l
is only upon the rltzht of |m~~.-.~.~lon as it existwl at the termina
tion of the suit. null does imi <~um~ltul|' any \lli>iiPqllr*|ii. riltht of
possession. Il1,Iml.~.‘n Iv». v. .\!.|;/ur 0/ Jlolml.-ru, 7 l'r. 545. per
D1]1itI', J. This seclioti relates only to the right of possession
and the illlte as they e.vi~l-»<l at the termittation ofthc stilt. A
jtulgms-nt in Pjectnient will Hui conclude the <iei‘l-med part)" as

to n title or right 0f]IUSS€‘5$iUli .\iliJ.\04|Ui:llli}' accruing. Hunt v.
O'Neill, 15 V1‘.

EJECTMENT.

1289

IV. Mesne proﬁts and costs.
45. That after a judgment in favor of the plaintifff, an action may be
brought for the mesne proﬁts and damages in all cases where the defend
ant in ejectment would be liable for mesne proﬁts and damages, as hereto
fore, or the plaintifff may declare for and recover the same in the same
action, under such regulations as to the pleadings and proceedings as the
justices of the supreme court may prescribe, which regulations shall he
applicable to actions of ejectment in the circuit court, as well as in the
supreme court. (a)
46. That the action for the recovery of mesne proﬁts shall be brought
in the name of the plaintifff in the action of ejectment, or of his personal
representatives if he shall have died after judgment recovered.
47. That in the action for mesne proﬁts. the plaintifff shall be entitled
to recover of the defendant as damages the full value of the use and occupa
tion of the premises for the time such defendant was in possession thereof,
not exceeding six years before the commencement of such action; but
such damages shall not include the value of the use of any improvements
made by the defendant; and where permanent improvements have been
made in good faith on the premises by the defendant, or those under
whom he claims, while holding adversely to the plaintili‘ under color of
title obtained by a fair bona ﬁde purchase from some person in possession,
and supposed to have a legal right and title thereto, the value of such
permanent improvements shall be allowed to the defendant, and set oﬁ‘
against the damages of the plaintifff to the extent of such damages and no

Mesne proﬁts,
how recovered.
Ib., é 76.

Action, how

brought.

Damage! ln ne

tions ior mesne
proﬁts.

R. S. 964.
Amended.

Value oi’ perms.
nent improve
ments madeln
good faith to be
set oﬂ’ against
damages.

further. (b)

48. That in ejectment, the successful party shall in all cases, except
where it is otherwise provided in this act, recover his costs of the other
party, and may have like executions therefore, as in personal actions ex
delicto.
49. That if upon the issue joined, the plantiﬁ shall recover a verdict
either for the whole or a part of the premises in dispute. he shall recover

Costs.

P. L. I855, p. ass,
Q 59.

Costs ifverdict for
the whole or part.

1b., Q 57.

costs, and may include in the writ of possession an execution for the costs,

or may issue a separate execution therefore.
50. That if the plaintifff shall obtain judgment by default for want of a
plea, he shall also recover his costs by the same judgment, and have execu
tion therefore, including the costs on the writ of possession, against the
defendant named in the summons, which execution for costs may be
included in the writ of possession ; provided, it appear by the aﬂidavit of
service of the summons that the defendant was in actual possession of the
premises claimed, or some part thereof, at the time of such service, and

Costs onjdefault.
Ib., 54.

Amdavit
required.

that the same was served personally upon him, or upon some member of
his family above the age of fourteen years, at his ilwelling-house or place of
abode ; and if it do not so appear, then the plaintifff may recover his costs

in an action for mesne proﬁts against the defendant named in the summons,
as heretofore. (0)
51. That if by the plea ﬁled, the defense i_s limited to part only of the
premises claimed, and the plaintifff takesjudgment of the-part undei'ended
tor, and enters a discontinuance as to the residue, the costs of the plaintifff

in the ejeetment shall only be recoverable in an action for mesne proﬁts,
as heretofore.
'

Costs on plenlto
part only and dis
continuance as to
that part.

1b., g 5-1.

(a; Means proﬁts can only be recovered from the time oi’ the
demise laid in the declaration. Dm, Drlntmurlir v. Chubb, Core
486.
Dem. Bray v Mr.S'hanr, 1 Gr.
And the defendant must
be proved in have been actually in possession. Den. Hancock
v. Aikﬂl, -Ilnb. H5. Dcrrickmn v. IVIIIZF. 8 l'r. l37. S11-wart v.

actual ouster and after the title oi‘ the plaintifff accrued. H3/lion
v. Brown, 2 Il'nah. C. C. 165. See Sanderson v. Price, l Zab. 6-18,
per Um'p¢.'nta1', J’.

/hnulrn rmd Amlnry Railroad 02., 4 Vr. 115.

mons that the defendant was, at the time oi‘ the service, in
actual possession ofthe premisesclaimed. or some purl. thereof.
If it does not so appear, he must recover his costs in action for
mesne proﬁts. Hunt v. O'Neill, I5 Vr. 564.

PH. C‘. C. -I52.

Butttn v. Bi;/elmu,

See ﬁllmdlrum v. Prirr, 1 Z111. 637.

Den. Prim v.

Svmdrnwm. .1 liar. 429.
W,‘ The value ofthe improvements made by the defendant

ought to be ﬁrst set oﬂ against the mesne proﬁts prior to the

(c) A plaintifffis only entitled to his costs on a Judgment by
default where it nppeurs by the nilldnvit of service or the sum

1290

E.lEC'l‘.\ll§I\"l‘.

V. Miscellaneous provisions.
Wﬂt oferror.
Ib., Q 76.
Construction of
act.
Ib.. Q 89.

52. That error may he brought in like manner as in other actions, upon
any judgment in ejectment.

53. That wherever in this act, the words “legal representative" of a
deceased party, plaintifff or defendant, occur in relation to the effect of the
death of such party, they shall he understood to mean such heir, derisee,

Control of court
over action.

Ib.. g 1'9.

or other representative of the deceased person, as upon his (loath became
seized or possessed of or otherwise entitled to, the estate or interest in the
premises in question of which he was seized, possessed, or entitled unto at
the time of his death.
54. That the several courts in which actions of ejectmcnt may he pend
ing, may exercise over the proceedings there-in,the like jurisdiction and
control as heretofore exercised in the action of ejectment, so as to insure a
trial of the title only,(a) and of actual ouster when necessary, and for all

other purposes for which such jurisdiction may at present be exercised,
and may make such regulations concerning the said actions as may be
necessary more fully to carry into effect the intention of this act; and the
provisions of all statutes not inconsistent with the provisions of this act,
and which may he applied to the altered mode oi‘ proceeding, shall remain
in force and be applied thereto; provided, that nothing in this section con
tained shall authorize the said courts to exercise any control or jurisdiction,

or make any regulations inconsistent with the true intent and meaning of
this act.
VI. Schedule.
NO. 1. l-‘OR.\l OF SU.\i.\l0NS IN E-I['ICT.\lE.\'T.

New Jersey, ss.—The state of New Jersey to the sheriff of the county oi‘
, greeting :
We command you to summon C. D. to appear before our supreme court,
at Trenton, on the
day oi‘
next, to answer to the
[L. s.] complaint of A. B., who demands of him the possession of
the equal undivided one-fourth part of a tract of land, with the
appurtenances, situated in the township of
, in the county of
, containing
acres, more or less, bounded on the north by
lands of E. F., on the south by lands of G. H., on the east by lands of I.
K.,on the west by lands of L. M.

And in default of his appearing and defending this action, judgment
will be entered against him, and he will be turned out of possession of said
land.
And have you then and there this writ.
Witness
,esquire, chief justice, at Trenton, the
day of
, eighteen hundred and
i, Clerk.
, Attorney.
N0. 2.

FORM OF

DECLARATION

AGAINST THE DEFENDANT NAHED IN

THE SUHMONS.

New Jersey supreme court--of the [here insert the date of the sum
mons].
- county, ss.-A. B., the plaintifff in this action, by
‘*1
his attorney, demands of C. D., the defendant therein, the possession of
the equal undivided one-fourth part of a tract of land, with the appurte
nances, situated in the township of
—, in said county, containing
acres, more or less, bounded on the north by lands of E. F.,on
(a) A court ol‘ln\v, in
octment, can deal only with the legal
tide, and cannot inquire nto a title claimed under an Implied

trnat. Mu;/ord v. ﬂmu, 6 Vr. 256. See Dm, Gardnzr v. Qwm
4 IVa.lh. C. C. 600.

1291

EJECTMENT.
the south by lands of G. H., on the east by lands of I. K., on the west by
lands of L. M. And the plaintifff says that his right to the possession of
the same accrued on the
day of
, eighteen hundred and
in and that the defendant wrongfully deprives him of the possession

thereof, to his damage

dollars.
, Attorney of plaintiﬂ‘.

NO.

3.

FORM OF DECLARATION

WHERE

THE

LANDLORD, OR

OTHER PERSON,

IS ADHITTED TO DEFEND.

[State the title of the court. and time of commencing the action, as in
number two, and then proceed as follows] :
county, ss.-A. 13., the plaintifff in this action, by
,his
attorney, demands of C. D. and R. S.. the defendants therein (the sum
mons having been issued against the said C. D., and the said R. S. having
been admitted to defend), [and then proceed as in form number two, to
the end].
N0. 4. FORM

OF PLEA

BY THE TENANT IN POSSESSION, WHERE IIE DEFENDS

FOR. THE WHOLE PREMISES CLAl.\IED.

New Jersey supreme court.
C. D. )
adsm.
In ejectment, plea.
A. B.
And the said C. D., by
, his attorney. appears and defends this
action, and says that he is not guilty of the injury whereof the said A. B.
hath complained in his declaration, nor of any part thereof. and of this
he puts himself upon the country, and the said A. B. doth the like.
, Attorney of defendant.
NO. 5.

I.-‘ORH OF PLEA

I!‘

THE TENANT IN POSSESSION DEFENDS ONLY FOR A
PART OE THE PRENIISES.

[After stating the court and action. say] :
And the said C. D., by
, his attorney, appears and defends this
action as to a part of the premises claimed by the plaintiﬂ in his declara
tion, to wit,

acres thereof, situate and described as follows, to wit :

and as to the part so defended for, he says that he is not guilty of the
injury whereof the said A. B. hath complained in his declaration, and of
this he puts himself upon the country,and the said A. B. doth the like.
, Attorney for defendant.
NO.

FORM

Oi‘

PLEA

BY

THE

LANDLORD \VlIEN

DEFENDING

SEPARATELY.

[State the court and the action, as in form number four, and then say] :
And R. S., who is admitted to defend this action as landlord. by
,
his attorney, appears an'd defends the action, and so forth [as form num
ber four or ﬁve, according to the circumstances of the case].
NO. I. FORM OF PLEA ‘BY ANY OTHER PERSON THAN THE LANDLORD
ADMITTED TO DEFEND, AND DEFENDING SEPARATELY.

[State the court and the action, as in number four, and then say] :
And N. 0.. who is admitted as a proper person to defend this action.
by
, his attorney, appears and defends the action, &c. [as in form
number four or five, according to the circumstances of the case].

EVIDENCE.

1397

36. Party may receive and deliver it.

57. Husband or wife of person indicted may testify.

37. Return of foreign commission.

58. Public records oi’ any foreign state, &c., may be admitted in

16¢. Arnenried by section 66.
39. To what courts statute applicable.

evidence.
59. Testimony of witnesses dc bane cssc may

3. )[ISC‘ELLA.\'EOUS PROVISIONS.

be taken

stenographer.
60. Transcripts of returns of deaths, &c., to local

by

board of

health shall be admitted in evidence.

40. Exhibits may be annexed to depositions.
41. In supreme court may be sent to judge or clerk of circuit».

1 E1311-llnﬂllon V) be read in e"ld911°931_ How tmnscl-ipis shall be m9_de_
63, Repeal“-_

63. Notice required for taking testimony in foreign statesor

4-1. T0 b8 SUhj('Cl [O 0b_lC‘Cl.lOﬂ-S.

king(1Qm3,

44- T0 be Pam T0!‘ bi’ P8"? Faking it

GI. Under what circumstances any party to a civil cause may be

4-'1 Paniﬁ ma? 119-"9 (‘0DlP946- T113188 011! ﬂ00I11II1l8$l0l1 I10! *1 Sm!/5

examined in his own behaifde bane ¢".~:-vv.
.
65. Public statutes of foreign countries authorized to be pub

v_

EYAMIXATION BEFORE COMMITTFJES_

47. Amended by section 52.

lished shall be received in evidence.
66. R00grilqlt8nttlé)l1S for taking testimony of witnesses residing out

67. Deposition of non-resident party to any action may be taken

45. Fees of witnesses.

by commission.

\'I COLIAIISSIONS OUT OF COURTS OF OTHER
5TATE~,-_

‘ nI' MISCELLA‘\ EOUS ACTS'
68. Committees of either house of legislature may summon wit

“L Process for’ bow obmmem

Egsiegalaind employ secretaries and counsel.

Expenses,

50' How sewed‘

69. Copy of ofiicial record of notarles public in other states shall

"IL SUPPLEMENTS51. Husband or wife may give evidence, in criminal action
against either to prove marriage.
52. Committee of common council may issue subpoenas and

be admitted in evidence.
70. Legislative committees empowered tocompel attendance of
\\'lll1eS8e8
71. Obedience to summons, how enforced.

administer oaths. Obedience to subpoana, how enforced.
53. Party suing or being sued in a representative capacity may
be a witness.

72. In actions on sealed instruments, seal only presumptive
evidence of consideration.
73. Husband and wife may give evidence in proceedings for

54. Husband or with of person charged with murder or manslaughter may testify.
55. Repenler.

divorce on account ofadultery.
74. Repealer.
75. Witnesses before legislative committees to answer all

56. Justice of supreme court may make order awarding process

ofsubpmna for witness to appear before commissioner, &c.

questions.

76. Penalty for refusal to answer.

R.

957, 9.-">9, 961.

1'. L. isrz, p. us.
-- 1s49, p. 21:5.
" 1352, p. 155,

I. Witnesses.
"
"
“
,,

l. CO.\IPE'I‘l~I.\'CY AND EX.»\.\llNA'1‘l()~.\’ (Ii-‘.

2-56.
1855, p. 668.
I859. p.
1860, p. ‘

1865, ,§
p 709;
..~~ ,_.,,,,,_

An act concerning evidence.
Revi~sion—.-lpproved March 27, 187-i.

1. That no person oii'ere(l as a witness in any action or proceeding ofa
ciril or criminal nature shall be e.\'clnded by reason of his liaring heen
convicted of crime. hut such conviction may he shown on the cross-exaini

1870' l" 59' fla

..
(‘tm\'l(‘il0ri of

nation of the witness, or, by the production of the record thereof‘, for the

crime, not to dis
qualify witness.

pnrpose of aifecting his credit. (a)
2. That in all civil actions in any court oi‘ record in this state, the parties
thereto shall he admitted to be sworn and give t-\-idence therein; when

called by adverse

Party may be

party.

called as witnesses lry the adverse party in such action; and when any

party is called as :1 witness by the opposite party, he shall he subject to
the same rules as to exainiiiation and cross-e.\'aniination as other witiicsscs;

I’. II. 1819. I). 265.
“
lS~3'.’, p. ‘J56.
5 7.
Amended.

prov.-ziletl, that no party to a suit shall he compelled to he sworn or give
e\'i<lt-nee in any action lirouglit to reco\'cr a pcn:dt_\' or to eiiforcc a for
feiture; and p1'0vide:_i also, that this section shall not apply to suits for

divorce. (b)
3. That no person shall be disqualiﬁed as a witness in any suit or pro
ct-etlings at law or in equity by reason of his or her interest in the event of
the same as a party or otherwise, but such interest niay he shown for the
purpose of aiiecting his or her credit ; (0) /j»rovz'¢l<i'¢l 'lI(’.l‘I’)‘l/Il’{(’.s'.\.',_ that no party
shall be sworn in any case when the opposite party is proiiihited by any
Mi A \\‘llllf"‘~'! who has been convicted of a crime and, on

Disqualification
for interest as
party or otherwise
abolished, except
when otlit-er party
tllsqtiitlllletl, &C.

i’. 1.. 1-Q59, p. 4&9.
Amended.

(r) Previous to the passage ofthis act n. dc!‘--iid;nit was not a

fr. H-rainiti.i' ion, deriies it, cannot he contradicted by other

competent witnt-ss forthe llilitllllllf, if Cltllctl to 1u'o\'t-n partner

with ‘sees to whom he may have atlniitted the crime. Qm'7'_I/

ship or joint liability with iis co-defendant. 21!;/n-s v. }!ol£in;;.w~
worth, 2 I)u!/-Ii. 186. The fact that a party in n stilt does not bei

Can he be contradicted by the production of the record of his
com lotion? I’.4"11n v. Pullni, 16 Emu. 138.

0.; _\ppllP8 to all suits brought to trial aﬂer the act. went into
effect J nly 4th, 1949 ). Von l'nU:enhr1-g v. Dr n, Rahwn 1; Bank, 2-i
lab. -96. ':5ee,als0, Rn-rhers v. RcmJmﬂ', ‘.56 Yr. 475. .1!/t-/_'ur!iu v.
Trnfilingrn. 16 Sinv. 333.

Daw V. l'ru.'luml, 3 Stew. 5-12.. ’W00d V.

Chduood, 12 C. B. Gr. 313.

lleve that (ind will punish

,rjur_\', does not l‘i'2itli'l' such party

incompetent. as a witness w ien oitered in his own bi-half. The
statutory right to testify in his own hehali isn. civil right, the
eu_io_vment oi’ which cannot, under our constitution, be denied
to any person merely on account of his religious principleﬂ.
.Pr_%rce'_r/ v. Powers, 2?. I'r. 432.

E\'IIll~I.\'('l-I.

1398

legal disability (II) from being sworn as a witness. or either of the parties
in a cause sue or are sited in a ic||l'eSelltttti\'c capacity, (b) except as here
Party in a repre
sentativecapncity
P. L. 1866, p. 709.

inafter pro\'idcd.
4. A party to a suit in a representative capacity may he alltnitted as a
witness therein. and il' called as a witness in his own hehali'. and admitted;
the opposite party tnay in like ulanncr he admitted as a witness. (c) [See
Sec. 53, posh]

Husband and wife
cotnpetent.
P. L. 1970, p. 59.
Amended.

Except ill certain
nCtiui'n~'.
But not compelled
to disclose conti
dentinl communi
cations.

Complainant com
petent to disprove
answer.
P. L. 1855, p. 668,

Q2.

Person whose
name forized com
petent witness
upon trial of
indictment.
R. S. 957, Q 6.

Person indicted
may testliy in his
own behalf.
P. L. i.‘l7l, p. 12.

5. Ill ally trial or inquiry ill any suit. action or proceetliilg ill any court,
or hcfore ally person having hy law or consent of parties authority to
examine witnesses or hear evidence, tlle hushand or wife of any person
interested therein as a party or otherwise, sllall he colnpt-tent and (:OlIl
pellafile to _<_zi\'e evidence the satne as other iiituesses. on ht-hali' of any
party to sncll suit. action or pl'ot't-etlilig; (ti) }n'ot.':'¢le<1. that nothing herein
shall render any lltlSl):tlltl or wife cotnpctt-nt or conipcllafile to give
evidence for or again.-t the other lll any crilninal action or proceeding. (cl
or

in any action or

proceeding for divort.-e on account of adultery.(g1l

except to pl'o\'e the fact ol' lnal'l'i:i;_'c. or ill any action for crilninal
con\'ersation; nor shall ally llushand or wife he coinpcllafile to disclose
any coniidential counnunieation tnade hy one to the other during the
tnarria;_:e. [-\.'el- Secs. 51, ;'>~i_ :37 and Til, po.~'l.]
6. That the colnplaiuant or petitioner. in any action. or proceeding of an
equitable nature in any court. shall he a competent witness to disprove so
much oi’ the dei'eudant's answer as may he responsive to the alle_<__:ations
contained in the hill of complaint or petition.and any defendant. in any

such action or proceeding. shall he :1 competent witness for or :tgaiiist
any other defendant not jointly interested witll hitn in the matter in
cont-roversy. (ll)
7. That: upon the trial of any indit.-tlnent for l'al.-"ely tnal<ing,altering,
fOl'Q_'lll:_{. or couutcrfeitiugg. or for utterin;__-". or puhlisliiug as true any record,
deed, or other

instrutnent or writill;__g, no person

nanicd lll such record,

deed, or other instrument. or writing. or \\ hose name, or any part of whose
name, is, or ptll'pol'ts to lie \\'l'it.l.cll. or Sl_\_l'llL'tl illt‘l'L‘lll or tllcl't-to, shall on
that account he deemed or taken to he all iucolnpeiellt \\'illlcs5.

8. Tllat upon the trial of any inllictluent, :lll('_3_"ﬂi.itlll.()l' accusation of
any person t-ll:tl'3_re<l with crilne. the person indicted or accused shall be
admitted to testify as a \\'iLllt-ss upon such trial. if he shall oticr himself as
a witness therein in his own ht»hall'.

fa) Nor will such testimony be rendered competent by the
subsequent offer and ndtnis<ion of such disqualified witnesses.
Yrtman V. [My/, 4 V1232. Ht.-e ]f1|rllUI)Il{) V. HfIr'!to'.v, 1 l-'1". 69. If
either party die before the testimony on either side is taken, the
evitieuce oftlie survivor is inadmissible. L1.mnin_/1 V. banning,
2 C. 1-I. Hr. ‘.'..'s. 'l‘he operation of the proviso mustbe limited to
the cases in which the parties were rendered competent by the
enacting clause. Ib. Where the complainant was, by a decree
in ellanct-ry, declared to heot unsound mitid, and he appears in
a suit by his guardian dilly appointed, such complainant is the
real party to the suit, being under a " lPL':tl disability." and tho

party. Hm-(man v. Aim-11.5 Vr. 552. It’ the defendant ts an
executor and colnpiainnnt Offers himself as a witness and is
exinnined without ob ection by defenliant the subsequent ex
atnination ofthe defe dant wit not legalize such evidence, but
defendant must move to suppress it,otht-rwise he will be deemed

as not interposing any objection. "'61/\'1'7‘ V. Hill. 7 (". 1.‘. Gr. 513.
(ti) The relation of husband and wife will not protect her
from making n.<list‘u\'el‘y relating solely to her own conduct

and aifecting only her own interest.

.-lfrllrtr V. }l¢"tl¢"r. 3 C. B.

(.-Ir. 270. L'nder the act of April 17th, 1813:, a wife was not a com

petent. witness in a suit by or again.-t her husband. but only in a

defendant is incompetent as a witness. Demarut v. Vandt.-nburg,

suit by or nttaitiat herself.

12 S'!"m. 130, 13 Stctv. 3-Hi.
to) In a stilt by an e.\-eeutrix in her representative capacity,
the defendant cannot testify for lilmselfuuless the complainant
has llrst been sworn on her own bi-lialf.
15'/LI/1/111'!‘ V. ﬁll"! ‘loin,
3 C. E. Hr. l'_"5. But. the testimony of a deft.-ndunt, unneces
sarily made it party, is competent under such circumstances.
Htn~rl'.om v. J ».'m.ton, 3 (7. J-.‘. Hr. 4'30. The complainant is not a
competent witness where any of the defendantsaro sued in a

A wife, who was a party to a fraudulent deed, is competent to
testify whnt washer intent and purpose in 111“-king such deed.

|'(_‘Pl't'\'t‘|liall\'e capacity. Force V. Dulchcr, 3 ft E. Gr. 401.
Sttvrl v. For/crr, 7 C.
(Ir. 453. .1!ouryozru,_‘l/ v. Sinip.-ion, 4 Stew.
1. [W/y v. Pm’/, 4-$'(¢.'tv. S. The plaintifff in an action a.t,'a.inst
Gxeclltorﬂ of their own wrong. is'not competent. J’m-It-er V.

’1’hom;i.wrm, l Yr. 311. Equity will not assumejurlsdietion of a
case where the only claim to relief is the death of the plaintifff
at law after issue joined, and the consequent exclusion of the

defendant's testnnony and the loss of the plaint.iii"s.

Llnn v.

Netdon, 8 C. E. Gr. 169.
Where both parties appear on the
record in a rep:-l-set"itative capat-ity, each is qualified as a witness

in his own hehrili by force ot‘ this section. Ilriinm v. It'll//.-, 215
Vr. H9. The competency ofa witness depends entirely upon
his qualifications at the time he is examined, and not on the
condition ofthe suit as to parties at the time the hearing takes
place. li’il-Ilium v. Vrnwlrtn/F3 Er»-ell/rim, 3 Rh, w. 576. Joss V.
Jfohn, 26 l't'. 409.
(The cases referred to in this note must be
read with .~.e<:tloti -53, post, and the cases referred to in note (ti)
under section fxi.)

(Pl The complainant must have been first sworn on his own
behalf. -5'!“--p/u>.wl V. _1'l[1'C'!rtin, 3 I‘. E. Gr. 1'.‘“i. It must he upon
his own otfer; he cannot be called as a witness by the other

Van Jloutrn V. I'os!, 6 (.‘. L‘. Gr.

3-55.

Jllulford v, Tunllt, 6 V7‘. 237. A8 to the history of our legislation
concerning testimony by a wife for or against her husband, see

Jackson V. .Io.mi.-ton, 22 Vr. 459.
(r) A wire in asuit between others may not testify to any
matter for which, if true, her husband may be indicted. Dru,
Sirwart V. Johnson, 3 Har. 88. Nor can a husband, in acollateral
proceetlimt, be n witness directly to (.'il&ll'L{\' ills wife with an lu
dictafile oll'etise. Slate v. li'l'l_<on. 2 Fr. 77. A husband or n. wife,
inasuitin which neither isaparty. can be asked a question

for tlieplirposeof disgracing ordisereditlng the testimony of
the other, when the matter inquired into is not indictable.
liiu-1' v. Slate, 6 I-'1". 553. The testimony of a married woman
illegally elicited beforeagrand jury. on u charge of bltmmy

against her husband, is not 8.(lilllS‘*ll)lt't1i:£Lll1Sll her on a question
of property. li'iIx0n v. Hill, 2 Baas. 1-t3.
ép) Ante, p. 1274 note (I1).

h) The complainant may be a witness. under this section,
even after the death of the defendant. Lunning V. Lmun'n,r1. 2
C. E. Gr. 228.
Jlfarlaft V. Ii'Itrtt'ir'l.', -l C‘. 1'}. Gr. 439.
This sec
tion does not extend to the trial of an issue out of chancery.
Blow}: v. Lamb, 1 Bras. 110. This section only renders a com

plainant,otherwise ineompetent,competent ton limited extent,
and does not allow him to testify generally. "His evidence
must be limited to the disproof of so much oi‘ the defendant's
answer as is responsive to the alleirations of the complainant's

bill.

Williams V. l'rcelun<i‘.s lltrcttlora, 3 Stmc. 576.

EVIDENCE.

1399

9. That the interest of a witness in the event of the action or. proceed
ing, or his conviction of a crime, (0.) may be proved by an examination of
such witness or otherwise, and his answers upon such examination may

be contradicted by other evidence.
10. That a witness shall not be excused from answering any questions
relevant and material to the issue; provided, the answers will not expose
him to a criminal prosecution or penalty, or to a forfeiture of his estate. (b)
11. That when a party to any civil action in any court of record in this
state shall be entitled by law to be examined as a. witness in his own
behalf, or to examine as a witness any adverse party therein, it shall be
lawful to obtain such testimony by commission or examination de bene
esse, or in any other way that other witnesses may be examined in such
suits, and the attendance of such party maybe compelled by the same

Interest or con

viction of crime
may be proved

by witness.
P. L. 1855, I). 668.
Wilness, when

excused frmn
answering.

1b., g 4.
Testimony of par
ties may be taken
by depositions.

P. 1.. 1552, p. 225,
Q 1.
Amended.

process as is authorized in the ease of other witnesses; provided, that

nothing in this section shall compel any party to be examined as a witness
in any case where he cannot now be compelled by law to be so examined.
12. That in case of a new trial of any civil action wherein the parties have
been examined as witnesses, if either party shall have died since the
former trial, and the action shall have been duly revived, and proceeded
with at the suit of, or against the legal representativ_es of such deceased
party, the surviving party, and also such legal representative shall be com

Testimony ofa

deceased party at
a former trial.‘
P. L. 1871, p. 43.

petent witnesses on such new trial, and the testimony of such deceased

party on the former trial of said action, may also be proved and admitted
on the new trial thereof.
2. PROCESS roa.

PRIVILEGE.

13. That if any person on whom lawful process shall have been duly
served to testify, depose or give evidence concerning any cause or matter
pending in any court of this state, and to whom shall have been paid or

Process for wit
B88885.

R. s. 951, Q a.
Amended.

tendered at the time of such service, ﬁfty cents, if he is to attend in the

county, and one dollar, if he is to attend out of the county, shall not
appear according to the command of said process, having no lawful or
reasonable excuse for such default he shall, for every such offense, forfeit
to the party aggrieved any sum not exceeding ﬁfty dollars, to be ascer
tained and adjudged by the court in which he may be subpoenaed to
attend, and shall also pay to the said party damages equivalent to the
loss sustained by the want of his evidence, to he recovered by action of
trespass on the case, with costs, and shall, in addition thereto, be
punishable as for a contempt of the court out of which such process shall
issue. (c)

‘

14. Every circuit court, court of oyer and terminer and general jail
delivery, court of common pleas, court of general quarter sessions oi’ the
peace, and orphans’ court, is hereby authorized to issue process oi‘ subpoena
requiring the attendance of a witness who resides in any part of this state,
out of the jurisdiction of the said court, to give evidence in any cause or
matter pending in the said court; and every person who shall be dul_v
served with such subprena, shall attend at the time and place therein
mentioned, under the same penalties. and shall be liable to the same
action which he would have incurred or have been liable to in case of
non-attendance, if he had been within the jurisdiction of the said court at
the time of the service oi‘ the said subpmna.
’n) I-‘orlnerl
been '4"
cunvlc
Pm‘
R).

Penalty for dis
obeying.

a witnea could not he asked whether he had

Subp(ena to run
into every county
oi’ state.
Ib., 9 4.

(c) An attachment was refused in a. nerttorari, where the sub

and punished for peiii larceny. sum v. Badly,

poenas had been lmued by the attorney. Slule v. 1\'eu1n~I.-, &c.,
Turnpike 00., Pen. '338. So, where a subpoena dams trcum was

WI A witness at common law could not he asked n question
“ham! I0 disgrace herself.
Vaughn V. Pcrrlmr, Pen. ‘TE.

defective commandinf a party only lo appear ut a certain
place and time named n the writ, and to brim: with him a oer
tain book. but omitting the direction lo testify. Blur:-ay v.

ﬁn v, Bmgler, 7 Hut. 8-0. A bill ior discovery whether de
kndani sinus her marriage has not COII1!Xlll.(Elli\flUll£'i'}‘\\'ill;l

Elalmi, 8 C. E. Gr. 212.

II. must also appear clearly lhat the fee

"IF Demon whatever. and with whom unrl at whhr time and

of the witness was tendered w him.

P

'-532.

and under what circumstances is demurrafile.

A de

flndlnl is not hound to accuse he-rseiflofa crime, or to furnish
Ill! evidence whatever leading in such an nccusuiinn. Jllm-ah

'- -'1"'Ih.1 C. E. llr. 39!. A juror fails within the nuunie, and
Ill! he examined i0 prove the allesred cause oi‘ challenge,

“mwlb it lend l0 his own disgrace. State v. Rn, l Dulch. 566.

Ogden v. hilrtiom, 2 South.

And that the snbpmna was served within the jurisdiction

or the eon rt, and the disobedience lndicaled an lnieniion to con
temn its process and authority. State v. Thuntmll, i South. H39.

EVID li.\'CI-I.

1400
Privileged from
arrest.
Ib., l '2.
Amended.

15. That e\'er\' Witness shall he privile_'_:ed from arrest in all civil actions,
and no other, during his necessai'_\' attendance at au_v court or other place
where his attendance shall have hecn required h_v suhpo-na pre\"iousl_v
and (llll_\' served. and in going to and returning i'roni the same. allowing

It‘ privilege vio

one (lt1_\' for e\'er_v thirty inile- from his place of residence; an_v arrest

lated, court may

inade in violation oi‘ the privile;_:e in this section shall he a contempt of

discharge.

the court out of which the suhpu-na issued, and the said court,or any

judge thereof, i'na_v h_v an order, i'orthwith discharge such witness frotn
arrest. ((1)

II. Evidence in particular cases.
Fraud in consid
eration ofsealed
instrument.
P. L. l8Tl, p. 8.

.\'on-summons in
action on foreign
judgment.
P. L. 1862, p. l55.

Recital of appear
ance not conclu
sive.
Omission to
plead plene ad
mlnistravit.

..\'ot conclusive
evidence of a
devastavit.
P. L. 1865, p. 833,

4 1.

Comparison of
handwriting.

16. That in au_v action upon any instrument in writing, under seal, the
defendant in such action ma_v plead and set up as a dei'ense therein, i'|':\tu..i
in the consideration (ll) oi‘ the contract upon which recover_v is sought.
as i'ull_v and to all intents and [)lli'|m~‘cS as ii' such iustruinent were nut
under seal.
17. That in any suit upon a i'oreigu _iudgine,nt, or a judgment oi’an_v
court out of this state, the defendant, or person sought to he aifected by
such judgment, ina_v sho'w that the defendant therein was not summoned,
did not appear, or was not within the jurisdiction ofsuch foreign court,
notwitlistauding it ma_v he recited in the record of such proceedings that
he was summoned or did appear, or was within the jurisdiction of such
court: and such recital shall not conclude said dei'end:uit, or estop him
from proving that the same is not true. (1-)
18. That the omission to plead plene 'admiuistravit or plene administravit
przeter by executors or administrators in actions brought against them in
their representative capacity, shall not he held to be conclusive evidence of
a devastavit; (J) and in any action brought against them upon any judg
ment suggesting a dcvastavit, where such judgment was to be made and
levied of the goods and chattels oi‘ the testator or intestate. executors or
administrators may show that they have not eloigned, wasted and con
verted, and disposed oi‘ to their own use said goods and chattels, and that
they duly administered the estate of their testator or intestate, notwith
standing the omission by them to plead either oi’ said pleas in the original
action against them; provided, that notice oi‘ their intention to oﬁer such
evidence be given to the plaintiii‘ twent_v days before the trial of the action
upon such judgment.
19. 'l‘hat in all cases where the genuinencss of any signature or writing
is in dispute, comparison of the disputed signature or writing with any
writing proved to the satisfaction oi‘ the court to he genuine, shall be per
mitted to he made by witnesses; and such writings and the testimon_v of
witnesses respecting the same, may be submitted to the court or jury as
evidence of the genuineness or otherwise oi‘ the signature or writing in dis

(a) The privilege is not extended to persons attendingas wit
nesses, unless claimed under the protection ofasubpoena " pre
viously and duly served." Rogers v. Bullock, Pm. ‘.516. A
party to a suit in chance-ry, who resides in another state and
comes here to give testimony in his own behalfbefore a master,
is, while necessarily attending before the master and going to
and returning from the place of examination, privileged from
the service ofa summons in a civil cause, without any subptena
ad h?sti_rlc(uidum being served. Dungan ads. Jifillvr, 8 Vr. 182.
H11-km“ v. 1[u!r‘hk|'s.¢, l Watt. Jr. 289, overruling Blight v. .l"ialu'r,
Pa. C. C’. 41. Service ofa summons upon a person non-resident
in this state while going to. attending or returning from a trial
here as a witness or party will beset aside. Service upon a
resident witness or party is not a nullity, but will he controlled

give up the premises and rescind the lease, but in an action for
the rent may set up his damages from such fraudulent repre
sentations. 1)¢‘nm'.son v. (r'1‘!)|‘4', 23 Vr. 144.
(c) 'I‘o an action upon ajudginent recovered in another state,
it Isa good plea that the defendant was not served with pro
cess, that he did not appear in person or by attorney, and that
he was not resident within thejurisdiction ofthe court at any
time pending the sult.or whenjudgment was rendered therein.

Price ads. lilo-ll, 1 1)urrh.'..*l5.

It is proper to plead nil drhcz,

and to give notice that no summons had been served. Bmlr v.
.Brrr_r/nmri, 1 Vr. ‘Jill. \\’here a stilt is brought asminst two
deft-iiiiaiits, one ofthem can plead a want ofjurlsdiction in the

foreign court over his co-dei'emiaiit.
236.

See Jllmlin V.

Maekwy ads. (_r'I:I'!l'1!l. 5 i’r.

'I'rrn!on In.s-urnnrr (0.,-1 Zub. 22?.

If the

by the court in order to remedy any special disadvantage

record shows an appearance, the party must show that the

which such service emails upon the defendant.

attorney had no authority to enter such appearance.

llfvmsry V. (‘ol

Gifford V.

‘t'i'llr, 16 l-'r. I19. Service oi‘ a summons against a foreign cor.

TIun*n,] .5'!or'I:,'i'()3, _.\'i/‘hols V. l\'ir‘/I018, 10 1'. E. G7‘. 60. $96

poration upon its vice president, who comes into this stale to
give testimony as a witness for such corporation, will be set
aside. Jlulhrnrn v. Pi-ms Publi.-rhino 1%., ‘.14 l'r. 1-‘>3. A citizen
of another state who comes into this state voluntarily to give
evidence in a pending suit cannot he i1l‘l‘eSted while remaining
here as a witness. Jon’; V. ]i'nmz.s.w, 4 -8'/e 11'. 211.
(/1) 5'9? [Mn V, _-’lfr)orI’, 2 Nmilli, '-IT-'1, 7107/: (G). 8041 LOW! V.
Bl-on/.jri»'.’ii, 8 T’1'. 552. A itcneral Rlll‘i.,"1'lll(ill in pleading that a
sealed inst"umcnt was obtained by il':u|ri is not siiiiicii-lit: tho
fraud tnust be set out. (‘minor v. II//wt-I /‘M m‘/-/ll Ii?/~'Ir!,'2l
l'r. 237. A lPQ'~‘t'9 aﬂer ace:-print: a l--as-» and i-nterini: into
p(i<<t'\‘<‘lflll of the Pl""llllQP<, upon -liseovi-riuz; a frnuduli-nt rep
resentation by the lessor ofa male! iai fact, is not compelled to

IIur1‘i'.v0n
Ilevhlrrl V.V.]{»il1lrn,6
1t’owun,I’¢‘1.
C. E.C.H1‘.C.62.
489.I"ie"M
A judgment
V. Gibbs, HI.
rendered
P. (Y in

another state, when sued on here. can be impeached only on the
ground that the aiijinl<_,'ing court did not havejurisdiction over

the person of the defendant or the subject-matter. If the de
f--uiizmt was present in the foreign state when proceedings were
I»-~_'ii|i, and broeess was served upon him,nn irreg'nlnrit_vin
such service, unless such as deprived it of all citatory effect,

can be set up against lllv judgment ensuing thereon in a suit on
511:-h ‘]'l]llL'i"ilI'I][ in this state. J<n-dim v. R'in/arrl, i0 i’r. lit’)
0'!l Thai it xv-is i'or'nerl_V such admission, Bee Bar'm~li{YV.
(;'1‘(\'-‘/ml,

/‘fl 1'!

I65

1/001‘! /1 V.

l)’I,,I‘

S/W31.

ll'¢'zupiP, l6 i'r. ‘<7, 89; reversed, 17 Vr. 531.

1V0“

41l'I

"

EVIDENCE.

1401

pute; pro1:ided, nevertheless, that where the handwriting of any person is
sought to be disproved by comparison with other writings made by him,
not admissible in evidence in the cause i'or any other purpose, such
writings, before they can be compared with the signature or writing in
dispute, must, if sought to be used bci'orc the court or jury by the party
in whose handwriting they are, be proved to have been written before any
dispute arose as to the genuinencss of the signature or writing in con

Writings used by
way of com pari
son must be
proved to have

been made before
dispute an ose.

troversy. (a)

20. That the certiﬁcate oi‘ a notary public of this state, or of any other
state or territory oi‘ the United States, under his hand and oﬂicial seal
accompanying any bill of exchange or promissory note which has been pro
tested by such notary for non-acceptance or non-payment, shall be received
in all the courts of this state as competent and conclusive evidence of the
oilicial character of said notary, and also of the facts therein certified as to
the presentment and dishonor oi‘ such bill or note and of the time and
manner of giving or sending notice oi’ dishonor to the parties to such bill or
note; provided, that the party offering the same shall have annexed a copy
oi‘ such certilicate to his declaration. demand or other pleading; provided
nevertheless, that if the opposite party shall give 11otice with his plea. or other
pleading or when the action is brought in the court for the trial of small
causes, by ﬁling a notice on ‘the return day of the summons of the day
alter, that he intends to dispute the fact oi‘ due presentment or notice of
dishonor, then such certiﬁcate shall not be made evidence by this section,
but the facts necessar ' to fix the liability of such party shall be established
by proof as heretofore. (b) [See Sec. 51, post]
21. That in any prosecution for libel, either against the govcrnmentof this
state, or any of the officers thereof, or against any other person, it shall be
lawful for the defendant, upon the trial of the cause, to give in evidence
in his defense, the truth ol'the matter charged in the indictment, any law,
usage or custom to the contrar ' notwithstanding. (c)
Z2. That the printed statute-books and pampfilet session la\vs of any of

the United States, printed and published by the direction or authority of
such state, shall be received as evidence of the public laws of such state, in
any court of this state ; and the court may determine whether any book or
pampfilet, offered as such, was so printed or published, either from inspec
tion. or the knowledge of the judge or judges, or from testimony; and no

Certiﬁcate of
notary conclusive
evidence ifcopy
is annexed to
pleading.

P. L. iwz, p. 34.
Amended.

Proviso.

In prosecutions
for libel, truth

may be given in
evidence.
R. S. 964.

Statutes ofolher
slates.

P. L. 1847, p. 146.

error shall be assigned for the rejection of any book or pampfilet, offered

as such, unless it be proved on error that such book or pampfilet is
received as a statute-book or pampfilet containing the session laws of said
state, in the courts of such state whose statute-book or pampfilet con
taining the session laws, it purports to be; nor shall any error assigned
for the admission of such

book or pampfilet be sustained, unless it be

shown in support thereof, that the statute offered in evidence or some
material part thereof, was not in force in such state at the time of the
transaction or matter to which it was oﬂ'ered as pertinent or material. (d)
23. That the reports of the judicial decisions of other states and countries
may be judicially noticed by the courts of this state, as evidence of the

Report ofjudiciai
decisions ofolher
states.

common law of such states or countries and the judicial construction of P. L. 1860,11. 260.
the statutes, or laws thereof, and the usual printed books of such reports

shall be plenary evidence of such decisions.
la) All doubts rmpeciing the competency of the opinion of
up--rlsin huiidwrlllllg, based upon mere com rison,as evi
|l¢ll\:(>'.l1l\'0 been l'\:ii‘iU\'6:(l by this sec1ion.hut t still mustbo
e+u-erm-vi proofor lu\\' degree. Mutual Benz;/1114‘/6 Insurance

The pubiimtlon by a mercanfile agency of n notiﬁcation sheet

respecting the character and ﬁnancial standing of a trmier,
which is sent to its subscribers irrespective oi‘ their interest in
the trader’s standing and credit, is not a privileged communica

0'». v. Brown, 3i~i'.'nr. '.’1li.

lion.

(in ltlhe 0».-rtincuu-of a noinry is defective in substance in
not stating miiicieiii facts, the indorser may object to its com
i‘Ptenc_v as evidence, though he has not given notice with his

(d) The aws of other states can only be brought to the knowi
edge of this court by proof. Uhlcr v. Semplc,5 C. E. Gr. ‘L39.

plea that he intends to dispute the faCl ofpreseutnicntor notice

Oﬂllshmxor. 14";-A-v. 67:1-rw, ID i'v-. ‘ll-'1.
in The hurrlcn of proving :har. the occasion ofpubllmtion of
I no}-i was pnvil-,-2-»<l is on the del'envlauL Tbeoccnslon being
ﬁ3‘»'!lQsed.ilie hlIl'll(‘T\ is lhen cast upon the plaintifff of show
thav. tho words were published irum an mproper motive.

Kin

v. Patterson, 20 Vr. 417.

Bali v. Frankltnltc Co, 3 i'r. 104. Clzmpwn v. 117112, 1 .Il[cChrl.
‘Z29. Proof by an attorney ofsueh state is not suliicient. Van

Bunkirlc v. Jilulorh, 3 Hm-. 185, overruling Hale v. Ross, Pen.
‘S07.

But wheres defendant in ehaucerywas such attorney

his testimony in connection with primed copic~4 of llic laws oi’
that state, wasreceived. Ooadu V. Blaclrwclt, -1 C. E. ur. 196.

EVIDENCE.

1402

III. Inspection of property.
Inspection of
premises or
chattels by jury
or witnesses.

May be ordered
by the court or 9.
judge.

Either before or
during the trial.

24. That in any casein which it shall appear to the court or a judge, that an
inspection or cxatnination oi‘ any pretniscs or chattels in the possession
or under the control of either part_v.in rt-spect of which, or some right
in,0r injury from or to which the action shall be brought, would aid in
ascertaining the truth of any matter in dispute between the parties in the
action, it shall be lawful i'or the cottrt or a judge, to order that thc party
in whose possession, or under whose control such pi.'opci't.y shall be, shall
permit an inspection and e.\'atniuatiou ol' the said premises or chattels, by
the _jur_v or b_v the opposite par't_v. or by such persons as he shall name as
witnesses, at such times and under such regulations as the court or judge
1na_vprt-scribe; which said inspection or examination tna_v he ordered by
the court or judge, either before or during the progress ol' the trial.
IV. Depositions.
i. til‘ \\'l'i‘.\'l-l.~'.~'l-IS \\'l'i‘iil.\' 'l'lll'l >"l‘.\'i'E.

May be taken
before certain
oﬂlcers.
R. 8. 969, Q 6.
Amended.

Notice required.

25. That if au_v tnaterial witness in an action or suit of a civil nature (u)
in any of the courts oi‘ this state. be in this state. (ll) but is ancient or very
iniirm, or is sick. (0) or is about to go ottt of this state. (_¢I) then the deposi
tion of sttch witness ma_v_. at the option oi’ either part-_v. be taken dc belie

esse before any jttstice of the sttpretne court, or judge oi’ the court of
cotntnon pleas, or suprctne court cotnmissioncr, or master in chaneery;
])r0t'i'/.ImI. that the officer before whom the deposition is to be tal<en,shall
cause notice to be given to the adverse part_\_' (e) iilllllt‘til:liCl§', or at such
short day as the ease in the opinion oi‘ the said officer may require, to
attend and be present at the taking thert-oi‘, and to put questions and
cross-e.\;amine, ii‘ he shall think lit. (5/)

Witness com
pelled to appear,
&c.
1b., £5 12 and 13.

Compensation oi’.

ﬂow such deposi
-tion taken and
filed.
I b., ; 8.

Ilow transmitted

26. That any material witness of the description aforesaid, being in this
state, inay be cotnpcllctl to appear and be examined before an_v of the
said oiiicers, in the s:unc manner and under the same penalties as if sub
poenaed to appear and teslil'_v in the court. wherein the said action is pend
ing; and shall be allowed compensation for his time and attendance at the
same rate as if had pcrsonall_v appeared and given testimony in the cause
before the court in which itis pending. (Ii)
27. That e\'ct'_\' person dcposing as aloresaiil, shall be sworn or ailirtned
to testify the whole truth, (2') and shall subscribe the testitnou_v b_v him
given, alter the saine shall be reduced to \\'|'iti|ig, which shall be done only
by the oliicer taking the deposition. or by the deponeut in his presence: (Z-)
and the deposition so taken shall be retained b_v such oilicer until he deliver

to court.

the same, together with a ccrtiiicatc oi‘ thc reasons of its being taken, and

oi‘ the notice, ii' any was given. to the adverse pari_\', with his own hand
to a judge or the clerk oi‘ the court for \\'llicil it is i{li\'t'.ll; (I) or the saitl
(a) Appeals from orders of removal in settlement cases and
from orders ot’ atiiliation and maintenance are included. 11/1
dreth v. ()w.'er.~;e'u'.s' 0f1ll)[k.‘tL‘(l1, 1 Gr. 5. And
’ appeals before the
com mun pleas. Rnzrtxcy v. lIu1n(n'.\', 4 I171)‘. 66.
(Ii) Not nect-ssary that he be an inltubltunc oi‘ the state. Smt'Ut
V. 1t'imc.ns!I-(..', ‘.3 111:1. 361.
(c) That a witness is xi/-1; is not snfiicient ground to issue a
commission after the plaintifff has rested his evidence.
'.l‘ln
cotnmission must be applied for, executed and returned b¢°jOrr'
the trial. Uynlcn v. Rub¢‘I'(.ton. 3 Ur, 124. Since the decision in
U,')'I(.'lL v. It'uIn‘I'l.mn, the statute has been aitcrt.-ii so that now the
deposition ofa witness, who is in this state, but is ancient or in
ﬁrm or sick, or ls about to tro out ofthe state, may be taken, on
notice, under the twenty-iirth section above, dnrlnt: the trial of

the iause. Jo/msrm v. Arnwinr, 13 l'r. -1.32. \Vhere a deposi
tion lb: hmtr (axe has been taken npon'short notice under this
section, the reasons for the taking oi‘ the same and the require
ment ofthe commissioner in re!-'peCt to the notice, together with
a copy oi‘ I he notice itself. can appear only by the certiﬁcate oi’
tine S1:IDlui5'§i0UOI‘ and not by oral proofs. (Jase v. Garrctson, 25
r. '...

(ill If“sbout to go out of the state," the deposition may be
taken by thejustice belore whom the cause is pending. _Bttrtv."_y
V. Kitchcl-I, ispcn.

(fl .\'0liC9 I0 the ttlfuriu I1. ll Set-ltlil, 18 suiiicient. 1.ml{¢mt \'.
Brod» r'ir‘It', 3 til‘. '.’ti!l. Iitll M-1* ]l[ul.It'1 (on V. 15!]/l'Hr, CD11’-H-3, and
Arnold v. ltrnslmtc. 6 Hui. 317. Sec >t-c. 31, ).o.<!.

to; Ifno notice be given of the time and place of examina
tioa, the depositions must be suppressed.
C. .. U1‘. 136.

kin-/.-cr v. Jlayts, 8

(It) The commissioner has no power to nriiourn the evaminn
tlon, but must continue it from day to day. J’ur1t:u'v. Jluy-ts,
U (‘. 1:’. Gr. 11:7-U.
ill Acertilicate ofa Iilﬂslvr in l'il.lilCPT_\' that the witness was
duly sworn is snilicient. .\'- iv J- my .h'.:pw.<s (‘-1. v. .\'m'wls, 3
l'r. 166,4 Vi. 43-l. The canuouint: in-ed not appear on the lace
Of the ticpositlonﬁ. Ltullum. \'. 1$l")(l‘ ric/.', 3 Hr. ‘loll. Iituicy V.
1t't'lv'hrfll, 15'/Mn. 805. But we 5'/t’tI.‘1l7‘( v. limrm’, I’: n. "J60.
(Ir) The statute doesnot r-»-iuire the tiiatnstrate to certify to

this, however prudent it may he to du so. o'ti_un v.t\‘o_t/re, :1 Gr.
-I-"57. See Dru, !'rou'!hr I’ \'. L//mil. ‘Z 1'1‘. 395. The cupfion may
he drawn .~uibsc~|uenti_v. Ib. But when drawn. in a -it-position
from the supreme court. cannot be altered bya jutlgt: at the
circuit. Jfmmvill V. BI'i;)_u.\', 1 Zith. 53.

in It is necessary that the certiﬁcate oi‘ the commissioner
siionhi set forth the reasons fortai-ting the deposition and of
t’he {notice given to the adverse party. Cusc v. Garreison, 3
1'. ‘-.

EVIDENCE.

1403

deposition and certiﬁcate shall be by the said oﬁlcer sealed up, directed
and transmitted either by mail or private messenger, to such judge or
clerk, who shall open and immediately ﬁle the same, in the office of the
said clerk, there to remain as of record.
28. That the person by whom such deposition shall be transmitted to
the judge or clerk, as authorized in the preceding section, shall make oath
or affirmation that he received the same sealed up from the hands of the
oﬂicer by whom it was taken, designating the time and place, when and
where received, and that the same has not been opened or altered since he
so received it. (a)
.

Oath in such case.
1b., Q 3.

2. OF WITNESSES RESIDING OUT OF THE STATE.

29. That if a material witness in any action or proceeding of a civil
nature (b) in any of the courts of this state reside out of this state,(c) it

Commission,
when and by
whom issued.

shall be lawful for the court in which such action or proceeding is pending, IL s. 959, Q 1.
or for any judge thereof, in term or vacation, on affidavit or proof thereof Amended
to the satisfaction of the said court or judge, and on such terms as the court
or judge may direct, to award and issue, under the seal of the court, a coni
mission to such person or persons, as the court or judge may think ﬁt,
authorizing such person or persons, or any two or more of such persons,
to examine de bene esse the said witness on oath or ailirmation.
30. That the name oi‘ every witness, to be examined by virtue of such Name of witness
to be inserted in
commission, shall be inserted in the said commission; and the interroga commission.
tories for the examination oi’ such witness shall be drawn and signed by the Ib., Q l.
parties or their attorneys, or counsel in the cause in which the testimony
is to be used, (d) or such of them as shall request the said commission, and
be approved of by the court or one oi‘ the judges thereof, and shall be
annexed to the commission; and each party shall be at liberty, with the Interrogaiories to
be approved and
approbation (e) of the said court or judge, to insert in the said interroga annexed.
tories such questions as he or she may think proper or necessary
3].. That a party intending to apply for a commission to~ examine a Notice ofappiica
witness or witnesses in any cause, shall give eight days’ notice of such tion for.
application, and of the name or names of the witness or witnesses to be
examined, and of the place of his. her or their residence, and also oi‘ the
name or names of the person or persons whom the party applying intends
to nominate as commissioner or commissioners, and shall serve therewith Copy of proposed
interrogatories to
a copy of the interrogatories intended to be annexed to the said commis be
served there
slon. in order that the adverse party may examine the same and submit with.
cross-interrogatories ii‘ he think proper; (1/) the notice mentioned in this

section shall be served on the attorney or solicitor, when the party appears
by attorney or solicitor. (I1)
32. ’l‘hat the issuing of the commission may be ordered and the inter
rogatories may be approved upon shorter notice than is directed by the
foregoing section, by consent of parties, or upon matter being made to
appear to the said court or judge to excuse the want of full notice, and
that shorter notice is necessary to prevent delay.
Im The statute is satisﬁed when, upon the commission pro
ducwi by the clerk and appearing duly ﬂied, is indursed a cer
tiﬁ<1iu- by one of the justices of the court from and by whom
Ind when he received it, with his name subscribed thereto, and

annexed is an ulﬂdavit made on the same tia ' in the terms of
the statute. although the Justice does not certi
in the indorse
rneut that he had opened it and delivered it to the clerk of the
wort. Hlldreth v. Otvraeern of Hopewell, l Gr. 5.

bl In-positions taken when no suit is pending, are inadmis
llfile. Dm, Birkham v. Ptmmt, Cora 2:0. A deposltilion regu
llfl." taken in a former cause between thesame parties is not of

iuelrevidt-nee in a subsequent action between them. 7';-_lmmer
v. Lon-mm. 3 llnl. .56. it may be made competent by proof
lhli the nut: was between the name parties and related to the
rune matter, and by producing a compared or duly-certiﬁed
9097- "Ilm1lm and Amhoy Railroad Cb. v. Slrwurt, 4 C. 1-.'. Gr.

H3. I P. 1'1 Gr. 48-i. The deposition ot s. deceased witness.
llken in the premrstlve court, on n ratvnt against the will.
ml be rrui in an eiectment, where the plaintifff in ejectment

C

ms title under the person who was executor oi’ the will and

Notice, how
served.
Commission may
be issued on
shorter notice.

tlhe delfenciant was one oi‘ the cuveatols. Turner v. Hmtd,8
'(tll. 1:98.
(v) Non-residence alone of a material witness is snilicient
ground for a commission. Lennard v. Sulphm, 3 Hnl. Ch. 545.
(ll) Interropzatorles must be signed by the parties or their
counsel.

Graham v. Whilely, 2 Dutch. Z54.

rw.-, s 01-. 259.

Luzilmn v. Brode

.

(F) The "approbation" merely extends to the discretion and
judgment which the court must exercise as to the legality and
admissibility oi‘ the questions proposed. Witmn v. ﬁn-nelt, 1
South. ‘U6.
(g) Nuticr of the application was always necessary. Wilson v.
(‘/Jrnell, i South. ‘I17. Dm v. I"i11'k*_1/, 1 Smtlh. °l24. Oﬂtlen V.
Robertson, 3 Gr. 124. Ludlmn v. Br0<i4’1'ick, 3 Gr. 289. But the

n_[!hlm'|'l to show that the witness lives out ofthe state need not
he taken on notice. Ilen v. Wood. -5 Hal. 62. Such aﬂidavit
must be produced. Henzirlrk v. Graig. 2SouUt ‘-368. The aﬂ"l
davlt and notice are ﬂied. Drn, Wlulcnack v. Voorhers, 2

Har. M.
(h) Ante, Sec. 25, note (e).

I'I\'lIlE.\'Cl~l.

1404
Oath of
commissioner.

Ib., 5 2.
Amended.

33. That the coinniissioiier or commissioners appointed under this act,
or under the general power or authority of the court of clianccry, or such
of them as shall act. shall, hcfore they enter upon their duties, take an
oath or ailiruiatiou i'aitlii'iilly, l'airl_\' and iinpartiall_v to execute the said
commission, which oath or atlirination may he taken before any person
lawt'ull_\' authorized to administer an oath or affirmation in the state, terri
tory or kiiigdoiii_ where the said coniinissioucr or coiumissioners reside or
may he at the tune. ((1)

How examination
taken.
Ib., Q ‘.2.

34. That the said counnissioner or commissioners shall and may examine
every witness named in the said commission, or such :is can be met with,

How commission
returned.
Ih. , Q 2.

iipou the iiiterrogatories annexed to the said coniinissiou, on oath or
atlirniation, to he administered to each and evci'_v witness by the said
commissioner or commissioners, and cause the examination of each witness
to be reduced to writing and si_¢_»'ned by such witness; and the said com
missioner or coininissioncrs shall also sign the saine. (Ii)
35. That the said commissioner or commissioners shall annex such ex
amination to the said coinmission,and close the same up under the hand
and seal of the said commissioner, or under the hands and seals of the said
coiiimissioncrs, or any two of them, and direct the same to the chancellor

Indorsemeut by
Judge or clerk.

Party may re
ceive and de
liver it.

or jiiilges of the court out of which the same issued, at the place of holding
the said court; and may place the same in any post-office, certifying
thereon the time when,and the post-oliice in which the saiuc may be so
placed; and the chancellor, or any one of the judges of the court out of
which the said commission issued. or the clerk oi‘ the said court, may take
the same out of the post-otlicc in which it may he found in this state, and
open the same, and indorse thereon when and how he received it; and the
said chancellor, judge or clerk shall immediately lile the said commission
and return in the office of the clerk of the court out of which the said
commission issued, there to remain as a record. (0)

36. That if it shall be more convenient for the party in the said commis

Ib., 4 3.

sion, his attorney or agent to receive the said commission and return closed
up and directed as aforesaid, from the hands of the said commissioner or
commissioners, (<1) it shall be lawful for him so to do, and he shall there
upon deliver the same to the chancellor, or one of the judges or the clerk

Oath in such case.

of the court, out of which the same issued, making oath or ailirmation that

Of the return of
foreign com

he received the same sealed up from the hands oi‘ the said commissioner or
commissioners, designating the time and place when and where received,
and that the same has not been opened or altered since he received it ; and
the said chancellor, jud_~_;e or clerk shall thereupon indorse and file the said
commission and return, and the said affidavit, as directed in the preceding
section of this act.
37. That where a commission issued hy virtue of this act shall he
executed in any foreig_1n state, nation or ltiiigtloin, such commission and
the return thereto. closed up and directed as aforesaid, may he transmitted
to the party on whose application such commission issued, his agent or
attorney in the Fnited States; and the person to whom the packet con
taining the said commission and return snail be transmitted as aforesaid,
may deliver the same to the chancellor, or one of the judges, or the clerk
of the court, out of which the commission issued, inaking oath or atlii'ma

missions.
I b., § 4.

Oath in such case.

tion, when and how he received it. and that the same has not been opened
or altered since he received it, and
(a) A_n oa-h “ faithfully " to execute. &c., oiniiiiiiu the other
terms, is insiiliicient. Dru, l’¢‘rr7/ V. Thonipsrm, l Jim‘. '.".'. So.
“ truly, faithfully and without hartialilyi to take the cxa.iniuations and depositions.” &c., is had. Luirrfnrr v. F'iu¢‘h, 2 I". I-3.

Hr. 235. Such oath taken before a person who st_\‘l+-s himself
" one of the peace of the county." is izood, if the coiuniissioner

certiﬁes that he had taken the oath [)I'4.‘\('l'll)t‘tl, before ii person
authorized to administer an oath at the place of his resuh-iice.
1.iIv.!I(mi V. Brmlv ri"/E‘. 3 /ii". ‘Q69. So, if lliejuru! he sigiis-(I "A,
H., justice oi the supreme court oi‘ N. 9.," the court will intend
that he had power to administeranoath,:iitlioin:h it llt'llli\\'ll1'l'6‘
averred in the proceedinrz. In II, .\'ul!/n" v. Appliymh , 3 Z110. ll-5.
it is not iiece.si~‘:ir_\' that the I‘!/H!‘/l show that such iilllccl‘ had
authority to administer the oatii,hut. the court inns: he ~ati~lied
by competent evidence that he had. Lou rum \-'. I-'lnr‘I~. '_’ I’ 1;‘.
Hr. ‘Iii-'». It is sufficientlf, on the /lll'1Ifi\lll\'('ll to the oath of a
coiiinnssioner named in a coniniission sent to the state oftihio,

_

J-._._-_

that he verily believes that it has not

the noiar_v public before whom the oath ls taken,certities under
his ollicial seal that he " was lawfully authorized to ndniiiiister

an oath in the said state oi Hhlo." JlIr';'r'al v. Braun, '.'-S 1'1‘. 618.
.1, sec Sec. ‘.27, Huh‘. note ikl.
vi 'l‘lu- l_‘(\lllf]ll'i~lt\ll may he opened by a judzein vacation.
II-‘n v. “'(¢l'l‘!, 5 I{uI 6'3. Wlien to he filed with the clerk ofthe
court. 1"-.4/no H v. 1-’ri_-ms, i Zuh. 5?».
As to the acts to he done
h_v the jud::e and clerk, the statute is only ilir-m~mr_i/. and any
omission on their part. as ll lllt‘_llltlIIO ne_i:l(-cts to file it or the
clerk peruiitr~ ii to be taken from his files, will not deprive the
|)nrl_\' oflli~- ln'llt‘lll oi ll. .lIorvm \'. I-‘run, l Zulu. 5*‘-‘.3
ill A di-po~il ion liandcd h_\' the iiittulstnite to A.. and by A. I0
H., lrv \\l|\I|'li it xvns kept lnl‘\4)lllt"' time and then l'i’lllI'|lHl to
the llltll_'l\ll‘lll(' and b_\' him lrunsinilled to the court, with his
ulliihnit that it did not appear to lniveheen tampered wltli.
cannot he lend. .5'u_r/1'» V. -Soy/Iv, 2 I-‘r. 487.

EVIDENCE.

1405

been opened or altered since it was closed up and sealed as aforesaid
the said chancellor, judge or clerk, being satisﬁed that it has not
opened or altered since it was closed up and sealed as aforesaid, shall
the same, and indorse thereon when and how he received it, and

; and
been
open
shall

immediately ﬁle the said commission and return, and the said affidavit, in

the oﬂice of the clerk of the court out of which the said commission issued,
there to remain as a record.

38. [Amended by Sec. 66. posh]
39. That the provisions of this act in relation to the examination of wit

nesses by depositions shall apply to any proceeding in the court ofchancery,
supreme court, circuit court, court of common pleas, or orphans’ court,
wherein the testimony ofwituesses may he' required as the basis of judicial
action by virtue of any statute or other law of this state.

To what court
statute applicable.
P. L. 1573, p. 73.
Amended.

3. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

4Q. That documentary evidence exhibited before any oﬁicer, commis
sioner or commissioners, taking any deposition or exhibits proved by any
witness may be annexed to, and returned with the depositions of the wit
nesses so taken ; or the said officer, commissioner or comlnissioners, shall,

if requested by the party exhibiting such documentary evidence or pro
ducing such exhibit, mark it as an exhibit in the suit, and return it to the
party offering the same, and the same shall be received in evidence in all
respects as if annexed to and returned with the said depositions.
41. That depositions taken by virtue of this act, in any cause in the
supreme court, may be transmitted to thejudge holding the circuit court
of the county in which the venue is laid, oi" to the clerk of such circuit
court, to be by him ﬁled, instead of being ﬁled in the office of the clerk of
the supreme court.
42. That the examination of any witness by commission or deposition
taken, returned and ﬁled, as provided for in this act, or a. duly-certiﬁed
copy thereof, (a) shall be as competent evidence in the cause in which it
shall be taken, as if such witness had been examined in open court, on

the hearing or trial thereof, proof being ﬁrst made to the satisfaction of the
court that such witness resides, or is out of this state, or is dead,or by
reason of age, sickness, or bodily inﬁrmity, is unable to attend the said
court, and if the testimony be taken under the thirty-eighth section of this
act, proof being made that notice of the taking thereof was given as therein
prescribed. (b)
43. That any deposition or examination taken under this act, shall be
subject to be excluded or overruled, wholly or in part, according to the
opinion of the court, upon any objection taken to the competency of the
witness, the materiality or competency of the evidence given, or the regu
larity of the questions put; but shall not be excluded for any irregularity
or informality in taking or returning the same, if the court in which the
same is oil'ered shall be satisﬁed that the testimony of the witness has been
i'airl_\' and truly taken and returned; and if such deposition or examina
tion shall be admitted in evidence by the court, no exception shall be taken
in the admission thereof, on the ground of any irregularity or informality
in taking or returning the same.
44. That the party requiring such examination or deposition shall be at
the sole expense thereof, and shall not have any allowance for the same in
the taxation of costs. (0)
(u) The old practice was to nerve a subpmna dues: [mum on
the clerk, who would attend in person, send his under clerk 0|‘
the tho attorney in the cause to take charge of the com
m ion. Tapper v. Wnlon, l Zab. 572, nolz.
H1) It is necessary to the admissibility of the deposition to

Exhibits may he
annexed to depo
sitions or marked
as exhibits.
P. L. 1870, p. 12.
R. S. 959, Q 2.

if taken in
supreme court
may be sent to
and ﬂied with

clerk oi’ the
circuit.
Examination to
be read in
evidence.
R. S. 959, Q 10.
P. L. 1862, p. 225,
I 4.
Amended.

Deposition shall
be subject to
objections as to

competency, M2.
But shall not be
excluded for
informality.

No exception on
grou nd of
informality.
To be at expense

of parry taking
such examination.

R. s. 959,; 12.

was competent when given, the death of the witness or of the
other party before the trial will not exclude it.

v. Dmnar.!,4 Ear. 66.
E. Gr. 439.

lb.

Rams

llfarlatt v. Warwick, 3 C’. E. Gr. 108, 4

(cl The expense paid for the commimion and to counsel on

show that all the requirements oi’ the statute have been com

executing the oommhuion was disallowed in Jluin v. Main, 5

plied vim.

Dirk. 7l‘.’.

lau-rem: v. Pinrh, 2 C. E Gr. 235.

If the evidence

1406

EVIDENCE.

Parties may have
copies.

1'b., Q 9.
Takln

out a

comm salon not
a stay of pro

45. That the parties to the action shall, at their respective costs and
charges, be entitled to copies of such deposition, as soon as the same is
ﬁled in the clerk’s oﬂlce.

46. That the taking out of a commission for the examination of wit
nesses shall not be a stay of proceedings in the action. (a)

ceedlngs.

V. Examinations before committees.

47. [Amended by Sec. 52, posl.]
Fees of witnesses.
1b., Q 3.

48. That witnesses subpoenaed by virtue of the preceding section, shall
be entitled to the fees of witnesses in civil actions, to be paid out of the
city treasury upon certiﬁcate of such committee.

VI. Commissions out of courts of other states.
Process for, how
obtained.
R. S. 959, I 14.

How served.
Ib., 4 15.

49. That in case a commission issued out of any court of the United
States, or of any state or territory in the United States, shall be directed to
any person or persons in this state, authorizing such person or persons
to examine or take the deposition of any witness named in such com
mission, and the person to be examined under such commission shall
refuse to attend and give testimony before such commissioner or com
missioners, any justice of the supreme court of this state, may upon
application made to him by or on behalf of such commissioner or commis
sioncrs, and upon proof being made of such refusal, make an order
awarding process of subpoena out of the said court for such witness to
appear and testify before such commissioner or commissioners; and, upon
ﬁling such order in the clerk's oﬂice of the said supreme court, it shall be
the duty of the said clerk to issue process of subpoena under the seal of
the said court, requiring such witness to appear and testify before such
commissioner or commissioners.
50. That the process of subpoena authorized in the last preceding section,
shall be served in the same manner, and be of the same force and effect as

Penalty for re

fusal lo attend.

like process in any other case; and any person attending in pursuance of
such subpozna, shall be entitled to the same fees as witnesses in other
cases; and any witnesses disobeying such process shall be subject to the
same penalties as are provided for in cases pending in the supreme court
of this state.
VII. Supplements,
Supplement.

P. L. 1377, p. 173.

Husband or wife
may glve evidence
ln crlmlnal action
agalnsi either to
prove marriage.

Approved March 9, 18'-‘T.

YVHERE.-\s. Doubts have arisen as to the construction of the ﬁfth section
of the above-mentioned act,
51. SEO. 1. That the said ﬁfth section of an act entitled “ An act con

cerning evidence,” approved Harch twenth-seventh, one thousand eight
hundred and seventy-four, be construed to authorize husband or wife in
any criminal action against either. to give evidence to prove the fact of
marriage.
Supplement.

P. L. 1877, p. 180.

Approved March 9, 1877.

52. SEO. l. That section forty-seven of “ An act concerning evidence" v
[Revision], approved March twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and sev
enty-four, and which reads as follows [see Sec. 47, supra], be and the same
is hereby amended so as to read as follows :
(a) The cause may be notlced for trial,and if the judge thinks
there has been am le time for the return of the commission,
he may order on t e trial, unless good cause ls shown tor delay.

Stoker v. (Farr. 2 Har. 451.
ﬂlrlry, 1 South. “lZ4.

See Den v. Wood, 5 Hal. 61.

Dm v.

EVIDENCE.

140'!

[Whenever the common council of any city within this state shall have
appointed a committee of members of their body upon any subject or
matter within the jurisdiction of such common council, or to examine any

oﬂicer of the city or member of said council in relation to the discharge of
his official duties or conduct, or concerning the possession or disposition by
him, in his oﬁicial capacity, of any property belonging to the said city, or

Committee of
common council
authorized to
issue subpoenas
and administer
oaths.

to inspect or examine any book account, voucher or document in the

possession or under his control as such oﬂicer, relating to the affairs or
interest of such city, such committee is hereby authorized to issue a sub
poena ad testiﬁcandum, or subprena duces tecum, to any person within this
state to appear before them to give testimony or information required for
the purpose above mentioned; and any member of such committee is
hereby authorized to administer oaths to all such witnesses as may appear
or be brought before them; the subpoenas herein provided for may be
served by any police oﬂicer or constable of the said city; and in ease any
person summoned shall rel'use to obey such subpoena, or to give testimony,
or to answer questions as required, or to produce any books, papers or

In case oi’ failure
to obey subpoena,

writ to issue out
of supreme court

documents as required, any justice of the supreme court of this state may,

upon application made to him and upon proof being made of such refusal,
make an order awarding process of subpoena, or subpmna duces tecum, out

of the said court for such witness to appear and testify before such com
mittee, and may make an order or orders that any party give testimony
and answer questions as required, and to produce books, papers or docu
ments as required, and upon ﬁling such order in the clerk’s office of the
said supreme court, it shall be the duty of the said clerk, under the seal of

said court, to issue process of subpoena to appear before said committee at
a time and place named therein, and so from day to day until the examina
tion of such person shall be completed; and said subpmua may contain a
direction that such witness bring with him to such examination any books,
papers or documents therein mentioned, and it shall also be the duty of said
clerk to issue, under the seal of said court, such other or further order in
reference to the examination, appearance, production of books, papers or

documents before said committee as said justice shall direct; and in case
any person so summoned by subpoena issued by said clerk as aforesaid
shall refuse to obey such subpoena or any direction therein, or to give testi

Proceedings to

enforce obedience
to writ.

mony, or to answer questions as required, or to produce any books, papers

or documents as required ; or in case any person shall refuse to obey any
order made by said justice as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for such com
mittee upon aﬁidavits proving the facts, to apply to said justice of the
supreme court for an attachment against such person as for a contempt;
and it shall be the duty of such judge to hear such application, and if sat
isfactory proof be made of such refusal, to issue an attachment, directed to
any constable or police officer of such city, for the arrest of such person,
and, upon his being brought before him, to proceed to a hearing of the
case; and the said judge shall have power to enforce, by imprisonment in
the county jail, obedience to such subpoena, and the answering of any
question that may be proper, or the production of any book, paper or
document that the witness would be compelled to produce in a court of
law. and also to compel such witness to pay the costs of the said proceed
ing, to be taxed by the judge; and any person who shall willfully and
corruptly testify falsely to any material matter, upon oath or aﬁirmation
administered b_v any member of such committee, upon such investigation
or inquiry, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalties of
perju|'y.]
Supplement.
,

Approved February 25, 1880.

53. SEC. 1. That in all civil actions in any court of law or equity of this
state, any party thereto may be sworn and examined as a witness. notwith
standing any party thereto may sue or be sued in a representative capacity ;

P. L. 1880, P. 5‘-'.
Party suing or
being sued in a
representative

capacity may be
a witness.

= ‘Ci m~:.\' c 1-:.

1408
Proviso.

]H‘01‘ll'Il¢’<l. Ilcl'c/'/liclv.-'.~', that this supplement shall not extend so as to permit
tcstiinony to he given as to any transaction with or statement h_v any
testator or intestate represented in said action. (Ill
Supplement.

P. L. lssi, p. i6.
Husband or wife

of person charged
with murder or
mnnsiaugliter
may testify as

""'““”‘°Repeaier.

Approved I-'ebruar)' 5, 18-ii.

54. SE1‘. i. 'l'hat upon any trial licrcaftcr had, oi‘ an_v indictment of any
person cl|ar;_'cil with the crime of murder or inanslaugliter, the lii|.sh:uid or
wife oi‘ the person so cli:ir;;ed shall he adiniitcd to tcstii'_\' as a witness upon
such trial. if he or she oli'er himself or hersclias a witness therein on behalf
oi the pcrsoil so cli:i1'gt~<l.
55. SEC. ‘.3. 'l'hat all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro
visions of this act he and the sanic arc hcreh_\' repealed.
Supplement.

1‘. L. 1891, p. 1'5.
Justice of supreme
court may make
an order awarding

process oi‘ sub
poena for wit
nesses to appear
and testify.

Appr oved February 16, 19-51.

56. SEC. 1. That in case of notice given or other proceeding taken for
the purpose of cx:iiiii|iiiig or takin_<_r the deposition oi" any witness within
this state, pursuant to the laws of the l'nite<l States, to be used in any civil
action or ])l'U('t'(*(llll_‘__I pending in any court oi‘ the l'nited States, or pursuant
to the laws oi‘ any other state or territory, to he used in any civil action or
proceeding pendin_; in any court oi‘ such state or territor_v, any justice of
the supreme court of this state nia_\". upon application nnule to him with
proof by affidavit that the testiinony of such witness is material to the
applicant. make an order awarding process of suhpu-na out of the said

(‘ierk to issue
proct as, tire.

court, for such witness to appear and tcstil'_v in pursuance oi‘ such notice or
other proceeding, and ht-fore such coininissioncr or person as shall be
named in such (_il'(lcl', and upon tiling such order in the oilice oi‘ the clerk
of the supreme court, it shall be the duty of the said clerk t.o issue process
of Sill)l)lL’llI1, under the seal of the said court, requiring such witness to

mi On exceptions to an executor's account, the executor la
not u c.nnpen-lit witness, when he offers hlmselfns a witness in
his own bciiulf, to tcsiiiy as to any transactions between him
self and his testator. Smith V. Bm'1u*(l, 7 &rw. 219. 8. C.
atiirmed, 8-S'trw. 31-L See, also, Ctawmn V. Ru--_u. 7. .\.‘rru.'. 348.
Ellicolt V. I.’/uunbc‘rlin. 10 Slrw. -I73. Bunting’; Administrator V.
Brru/, 11 Slew. -I00. (,’ium'n{] V. Robins, 12 S!--w. 48. Sherman V.
.l.mu'e'r, 12 SI:--u‘. 2.'>3. Schiz-Ir V. Grofe, 15 Strw. 3-32. ()..¢P.nn‘ric V.
()'1l’r.=iIl__u. 15 Stew.-171. Woolvertrm V. Van S3/ckal, 28 Vr. 393.
I'l1ttl1l4linV. Limi,25 Vr. In a suit for an account by a sur
viving partner against the executor of his deceased partner, the
survivor is competent to prove that the decedent applied part
nership funds to his own use, but statements of personal trans

mim V. (Hmmim, ifi S1/'20. 86, decided in 1887, the court of
chancery held that since the passage ol'the not of 1s.-o, a widow

in a suit ngaiiist the heirs-at-law oi‘ her deceased iiush.-inii was a
competent wline.-_m to testify as to transactions \\ iill and state

ments made by her husband. In Smith V. b‘im'th,‘z3 Vr. 2i'J7,
decided in IR:-‘.1, a widow in an action fordower I.-'3\'1‘1h£‘ Uni)’
direct proof in the case ofan actual marriage. The defendants
were devisees under the will of her ailcized husband. The
court of errors said “ demandant was a competent witness to

testily against these defemlants, for they are sued as devises-s
having title to the land under the will, and not as executors and

legal representatives" But in Joss V. MoIm,26 i'r. 407, decided

and property in the defendant as administratomhe defendant is
not su/_v_l in a representative capacity, and thereforee the plaintifff

in 1893, the supreme con rt, in an action bronchi by Joss against
the devisees of Frederic.-kn Mohn, the plaintiil‘ was permitted to
testiiy, under objection, to her transactions with the dc-visor,
and to siateim-nts made by him. The court held that the testi
mony should have been excluded, saying “ it seems entirely un
deniable that in actions like the present, the heir or devisee
stands instead of,aud so represents, the deceased debtor." The
View of the supreme court seems to have been taken by the
court of chancery in trnmieood V. Jlrnry, 7 Dick. 4-50, decided
in 159-i. In Tiriumor V. Tinluvior, 16 S11 u‘. 163, it was held that
where a devisee and legatee is also an executor, and excepts to
his co-executor’s account, in his capacity as devisee and iegatee,
his testif_ving as a witness docs not remove the statutory bar
that prevents his co-e_\<-cutor from being a witness in his own
behalfto establish his individual claim against the estate at the
hearing of the exceptions to his account.
Tins case was
atiirmed by the court of errors and appeals, but without de
termining whether the accounting executor was competent to
testify to transactions with or statements by the testator. .\'ee
Tichcrwr V. Ti!‘/|I_°‘1l07', I8 b'(e’w. 303. If the representative oﬂ‘ers
himself as a witness on his own behalf, and testifies to any
transaction with or statement by his testator or intestate. the
other party may be a witness on his own behalf as to all trans
actions with or statements by such testator or intestate which
are pertinent to his case ; but if the representative offers him
self on his own behalf, and does not testify to any such trans
action with or statement by his teslator or intestate, the other
party is excluded from testifying with regard to any such

is a i'ull witness in the case. Jlmlye V. Oorirll, 15 Vr. 456. S. (.‘.
niiirmed, 17 Vr. 354. \Vhere neither party to an action represents
a. testator or intestate, although one of the parties to the trans

aﬁirming }i[c(i'nrtin V. T raphaycn, 18 Sta-iv. 323. The testimony
of oﬁicers or directors of a corporation, called as witnesses in

actions of the suvivor with the decedent must be excluded.
Be‘-Wm V. (‘~-r. 8 S1110. 87. Neither the proponent nor the cavea
tor, in a contest over the admission ofa will to probate, is, as

such, in any way limited in his testimony by the fact that he la
a party to the proceedings. Such proceedings are not a suit, but
ajudical int uiry whethertheinstrument before the court. is the

last will am testament of the deceased. Jfarkin V. lilo:-It-in 10
St‘-w. 534. The act does not exclude a party from testifying
with respect to a contract made by him with the deceased (ar
ccutor oi‘ the represented testator. Pulmattr-r V. Tillon, 13 .su.»u».
535; overruling 12 St. w. 40. \Vhene,ln a suit brou ht b the
representatives ofa deceased person, the testimony 0 thei Vlng
defendant concerning conversations and transactions had with
the decedent is admitted without objection, it is not in the
power of the court afterward to strike it out because its admis

sion is opposed to the statute. The court mu strike out testi
mony so admitted only when its exclusion is demanded by

some consideration of public policy. Roeclarirl V. Rowland, 13
S.’/‘u'. 28!, overruling .i{oun!f0rd’s Adm£m.x!ral0r V. Rowland, 11

Slew. lSi. In a suit brought by the guardians of a lunatic, the
lunatic is the real party; the guardians are not considered as

plaintiil"s suing in a representative capacity, and t-helunatlc
being under a " legal disability,” the opposite party cannot be

sworn. 1)»‘.‘Ind7‘t’-'l'C V. Vandenburg, 12 Slew. 130. S. C. ailirmed,
13 Srl-.~w. 3-ii. In repicvin, when the plea of non crpi! is pleaded,

action out ofwliich the suit grows is dead. the living party is com
potent to speak asawitnessas to what was said and done by the
oth ir. L"lu"_'h Coat and Nari-nation (.I'o. V. (.hitrat Railroad (b.,
14 -S'.'rw. 167. But his evidence, in order to be worthy offull credit,

transaction or statement. .Zi{cCarh'n V. .Mc(.'artin,18 Strw. 265,
its behalf in an action in which it is a party, is not testimony
given by the corporation, and consequently is not rendered in

competent b_v the proviso of the act of 1880. New Jersey Trust
and Sq!» I)Ipo§'i! C0., I.‘.1-rculor, (CT. V. (hmdcn Safr .Drpo.si'! and

should either be corroborated on material points, or be so full

T H1-it (.‘v., .\'0i:-':re_hm- Term, 1595.

and convincing as to persuade the court of its entire truth. Ih.
I{('il‘*‘s-1ll~lll\\’ are within the purview of the statute excludinr:
parties as witnesses where any party to the suit sues or is sued
“in :1 rcpr.-.-ent:~.tivo capacity." ('o!_frz_r v. fblr'n.r, 5 SI-'10. '_‘I.¥i,

petent witm-ss, under the act of 18%), to testify adversely to an
other party suing in a representative capacity. as to a trarimciion

A party to a suit is not a com

decided in 1880, prior to the passage of the above act. In (‘rim

ests are divisible. JIM”/¢1'lI'8 V. Jioaglund, 3 Dick. -I56.

of the deceased with a person other than the \\'liiif'.'*'\'l, in which
the witness and such persoii are interested, although such inter

EVIDENCE.

1409

appear and testify accordingly, which shall be served in the same manner
and be of the same force and effect as like process in any other case, and
any person attending in pursuance of such subpoena shall be entitled to
the same fees as witnesses in other cases, and any witness disobeying such
process shall he subject to the same penalties as are provided for in cases
pending in the supreme court of this state.

Supplement.
Approved March 3, 1681.

57. S120. 1. That upon the trial of any indictment, allegation or accusa
tion of any person charged with crime, the wife or husband of the person
indicted or accused shall be admitted to testifv as a witness in behalf of
such person upon such trial, if he or she shall he offered and produced as
a witness therein by the person so indicted or accused.

P. L. 1881, p. 69.
Husband and wife
of person indicted
to be admitted to
testify as witness.

Supplement.
Approved March 24, 1881.

58. S1-:0. 1. That any public record of any foreign state, county or city, or
of any court therein, or any copy thereof, which is admissible in such state,
county or city, or in any court therein, to prove the facts therein contained,
shall be admitted in evidence in the courts of this state, and shall be evidence
of the facts therein contained to the same extent as though the original
papers, of which the record thereof is a copy, had been produced and
proved ; provided, that wherever a copy of any such record shall be offered

P. L. 1881, p. 210.
Public records of
any foreign slate,
&c., to be admitted
in evidence.

Proviso.

in evidence, the same shall not be admitted, unless the same shall have

been ﬁrst exempliﬁed according to the laws of the United States of America.

Supplement.
Approved April 8, 1887.

59. SEO. l. That in all cases where the testimony of a witness de bene
esse is taken upon notice, pursuant to the thirty-eighth section of the act
to which this is a supplement, it shall be lawful for the same to be taken
by a stenographer, in presence of the judge or commissioner named in the
notice; provided, that before the taking of the same the stenographer shall
be sworn by the said judge or commissioner to carefully, faithfully and
impartially take said evidence and to make a true and correct transcript
thereof, which oath shall be in writing and shall be attached to and be a
part of the return of the judge or commissioner. [See Sec. 66, post.]

P. L. 1887, D. 146.
Testimony of wit
nessesde bene esse

may be taken by
stenographer.

Supplement.
Approved March 21.1888.

60. SEC. l. That all transcripts of returns of deaths, marriages and
births made by any physician, clergyman or other person, according to

law, to any county board of health or local board of health of any muni
cipality in this state, empowered by law to receive such returns, or trans
cripts of the record of such return recorded by such board, and made as
hereinafter directed, shall be received as legal evidence in any court of
law or equity in this state.
6].. SEC. 2. That said transcripts shall be a copy of the return as origi
nally made, or a copy of the record thereof as recorded by the clerk or
registrar of said board, and shall be signed by said clerk or registrar and
by him certiﬁed to be a true copy of said return or record, and that there
upon such certiﬁed transcript shall be received as prima facie evidence of
the matters and facts therein stated.
62. SEC. 3. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro
visions of this act be and the same are hereby repealed.

89

P. 1.. 1888, p. 182.
Transcripts of
returns of deaths,

&c., to county
or local board of
health, legal

evidence.

What transcript
to be, and by
whom certiﬁed.

Repealer.

1410

EVIDENCE.
Supplement.

an 1m,p.m.

Approved April 8, 1&1

63. SEC. l. That it shall not be lawful for any party in a civil cause to

Notice required
for taking testi
mony in foreign
states or king

doms.

Under wnni. cir
cumstances any
party to a civil

cause may be ex
amined ln his own
behalf de bene
esse.

take the testimony of any witness de hene esse residing in any foreign state
or kingdom upon less than forty days’ notice in writing of the time and
place of such examination, and of the names of the witnesses to be exam
ined to the adverse party, his attorney or solicitor, that he may be present
and put interrogatories, if he shall see ﬁt.
64. Sec. 2. That no party to any civil cause shall be examined in his
own behalf de beue esse under the provisions of the act to which this is a
supplement, except upon the written consent of the attorneys of all the
parties thereto, unless the court in which the action shall be pending or
any judge thereof at chambers, shall upon the petition of the party apply
ing therefore, upon notice to the other side, order in his discretion the
examination of such party, nor shall any testimony of such party taken or
to be taken de bene esse be used or read at the trial of said cause, unless

taken upon such order.

[See Sec. 67, post.]
Supplement.

P. L. 1893, p. 86.
Public statutes or
laws offorelgn
00Dl'lI.I'|€SlUi.l10l‘
ized lo be pub
lished received I!
evidence in Ill
courts of this
slate.

Court may deter
mine as to
authenticity.

Approved March 1, 1893.

65. Ssc. l. That the printed statute-books and pampfilet session laws or
other laws of any foreign country or of any province or subdivision thereof,
printed and published by the direction or authority of such foreign country,
province or subdivision thereof shall be received as evidence of the public
statutes or laws of such foreign country, province or subdivision thereof in
any and all courts of this state, and the court may determine whether any
such book or pampfilet offered in evidence was so printed or published,
either from the inspection of such book, or the knowledge of the court, or
from testimony in support thereof, and no error shall be assigned for the
rejection of any such book or pampfilet so oifered, unless it be proven on
error that such book or pampfilet oﬁ'ered as such in evidence is what it

purports to be; nor shall any error assigned for the admission of such
book or pampfilet be sustained unless it be shown in support thereof that
the statute or law offered in evidence or some material part thereof was not
in force in such foreign country, province, or subdivision thereof at the
time of the transaction or matter to which it was offered as pertinent or
material.
Supplement.
P. |.. less, p |as

'

Approved March 10,1888.

66. SEO. 1. That the thirty-eighth section of the act to which this is a
Regulations for
taking testimony

of witnesses
residing out of
stale.

supplement be and the same is hereby amended so that the same shall read
and be in the words following, to wit:
[That any party in a civil cause desiring the testimony of any witness
who resides out of this state may, instead of taking his testimony by com
mission take the testimony of such witness de beue esse before anyjudge
of any supreme, circuit or district court, or court of common pleas, of

the state where such witness is, or before any commissioner of deeds
appointed by the governor of this state, resident in the state where such
witness is, or before a commissioner specially appointed for that purpose
'by the court in which such action is pending, or any judge thereof, or
Proviso.

before a master in chancery of this state; ]n~ov2'd0<l, that notice in writing

of the time and place of such examination, and of the names of the
witnesses to be examined shall be given to the adverse party, his
attorney or solicitor, that he may be present and put interrogatories if

Proviso.
Proviso.

he shall see ﬁt, which notice shall be served, allowing time for attend
ance after service not less than at the rate of one day (Sundays
excluded), for every ﬁfty miles of travel; provided also, that in all cases at
least ten days’ notice, exclusive of Sundays, shall be given; and provided
further, that in cases where such testimony is desired to be taken of wit

EVIDENCE.

1411

nesses residing in any foreign state or kingdom, or in any state or territory
of the United States, situate upon the Paciﬁc ocean, so many days‘ notice
shall be given as shall be directed by the court in which said cause shall
be pending, or any judge thereof, at chambers; the officer taking such
testimony shall ﬁrst take an oath or aﬁirmation fairly and impartially to
take the same, before some person authorized to administer an oath in the

state, territory or kingdom where he shall reside; the testimony of such
witness shall be taken on oath or afﬁrmation, administered according to
the law of this state, upon interrogatories to be then and there put by the
parties, or any of them, or any person authorized in their behalf, and such
interrogatories and the answers thereto shall be reduced to writing by the
oﬂicer taking such testimony; and shall be subscribed in his presence by
the deponent; and thereupon the same shall be certiﬁed, sealed up, in
dorsed, directed and forwarded, as is required in case of depositions taken

under the twenty-ninth section of this act, or if the testimony of such wit
ness be taken before a master in ehancery, such testimony may be certi
ﬁed and delivered by the master taking the same to the clerk of the court
in which such action is pending, or to any judge thereof.](u-) [See Sec.

59,ante.]
Supplement.
Approved March 18,1893.

67. SEO. 1. That the deposition of any party to any action in any of the
courts of this state, who resides out of the state while such action is pending,
may be taken by commission or upon notice in the same manner and upon
the same terms as provided in case of witnesses residing out of the state;
and that such deposition may be read and used upon the trial of such cause;
it being the intention of this amendment to give the parties to actions who
reside out of the state the same privilege to have their depositions taken out
of the state as to other witnesses in such actions residing out of the state.

P. L. 1893, p. Z49.
Deposition of non
resident party to
any action may be
taken by com

mission.

VIII. Miscellaneous acts.
An act concerning fees.
Approved March 19, 1874.

68. S1-:c. 1. That any joint committee of the legislature, any standing
committee of either house. or any special committee which shall have been,
by resolution,directed to enter upon any investigation or inquiry, the
pursuit of which shall necessitate sending for persons and papers and
the examination of witnesses, shall have power to summon before them
such persons as they may deem necessary and proper to testify in the
matter under investigation, and shall also be authorized to employ such

P. L. 1574, 1). 54.
Committees of
either house of
the legislature to
have power to

summon witnesses
and employ secre
taries and counsel.

legal and clerical assistance as they may deem necessary, and the persons

Witness fees.

so testifying shall be entitled to receive the like witness fees and mileage
as are now allowed to persons summoned to testify in the courts of this
state; and the treasurer of this state is hereby authorized and directed to
pay upon the warrant of the comptroller, such fees and compensations

Chairman of com
mittees to certify

for the above-named purposes as shall be certiﬁed to have been correct and

bills, and state

treasurer shall

necessary by the chairman of the committee under whose authority and by
Whose order such expenses shall have been incurred, and approved by the
governor.
Kai Where n deposition was taken in another state. under the
authority of this section and section 39, ante, on behalfoflhe
mlnpiainsnt, it Wu suppressed because the witness, who was

37. The court of chancery may, in proceedings for contempt,
order the evidence of witnesses resident in foreign jurisdictions
taken by commission or otherwise, and use the evidence so

Iue defendant. refused to answer some of the complainant's

taken on the hesrlns

quetinns, though they vs are proper.

Dodd v. l‘ruI, 13 Slew. 673.

Fulton v. Goulrn, 1 Slrw.

pay them.

Uiuz v. Dodd, ii stew.-100. See, also,

l4l2

EVIDENCE.

An act ooncerning the records of notaries public of other states and
territories.
P. L. I874, p. 57.
A duly-proven

copy of the ofﬂclal
record of nolarles
public of other
states shall be re
ceived as evidence
In the courts of
this state.

Approved March 21, 1874.

69. SEC. l. That whenever the register or other book of any notary

public appointed and qualiﬁed under the laws of any state or territory of
the United States containing a record of the oillcial acts of such notary
public by him done in pursuance of his oﬂlce shall have been, or shall
hereafter be, in pursuance of the law of such state or territory, by reason
of the death, removal or other disability of such notary public, deposited
in the oﬂ‘lce of the clerk, prothonotary or recorder of deeds of the city or
county in which the said notary public resided at the timc of his acting
as such notary public, a copy of such record or of any part thereof
respecting the protesting of any note or bill of exchange protested by
such notary public, and the time when, place where and upon whom
demand of acceptance or payment was made, with a copy of the notice of
non-acceptance or non-payment (if a copy of such notice shall appear on
said record), how the notice of non-acceptance or non-payment was
served, and time when, or if sent, in what manner, and the time when,
and to whom, duly certiﬁed under the hand and seal of such clerk, pro
thonotary or rccordcr of deeds, or otherwise proved to be truly taken
from said record, shall be held and received in all the courts of this state
as conclusive evidence of the facts therein recited, and also of the otlicial

Proviso.

character of said notary public; and whenever it shall appear from such
record that the said note or bill of exchange had been protested for want
of acceptance or payment thereof, and that the said notary public making
such_ protest had duly notiﬁed the drawer or indorsers, by mail, of the
demand or payment or acceptance and refusal thereof, without specifying
the names or the post-oﬁlce address of such drawer or indorsers, the copy
of such record certiﬁed or proved as aforesaid, shall be held and received
in all the courts of this state as conclusive evidence that the drawer and
indorsers of such note or hill of exchange were duly notiﬁed of such
demand and refusal; provided, that the party otfering the same shall have
annexed a copy of such record to his declaration or other pleading, or
shall, at least twenty days before the trial of any cause where such record
is to be offered in evidence, serve upon the opposite party or his attorney
a notice that he intends to oﬂ'er in evidence upon said trial such record or
a copy thereof, setting forth the cause ; and provided further, that any party
may contradict by other evidence any of the matters appearing upon the
said record in all cases where such party shall give notice of his intention
so to do within ﬁve days after a service of the notice mentioned in the ﬁrst
proviso of this section.
An act to deﬁne the powers of legislative committees of investigation.

P. L. 1875, p. 26.
Legislative com

mltlees empow
ered to compel
attendance of
wltnessm.

Approved March ll, 1875.

7Q. SEO. 1. That any joint committee of the legislature, any standing
committee of either house, or any special committee which shall have been
or may be by resolution, directed to enter upon any investigation or
inquiry, the pursuit of which shall necessitate sending for persons and
papers and examination of witnesses, shall have power to compel the
attendance before them of such person or persons as they may deem neces
sary and proper, to testify in the matter under investigation, and any
member of said committee may swear any person who shall come to testify

Expenses, how
paid,

before said committee; and any person who shall have been so sworn, and
who shall swear falsely shall be guilty of perjury; and said committee
shall be authorized to employ such legal and clerical assistance as they
may deem necessary; and the treasurer of this state is hereby authorized
and directed to pay, upon the warrant of the comptroller, such fees and
compensation for the above-named purposes, and for the expenses of the
sergeant-at-arms in the execution of the warrant mentioned in section two
of this act, as shall be certiﬁed to as correct and necessary by the chairman

_.._ an!
_
'_-nil‘-lwlﬁ l‘

141a‘.-lg»:

EVIDENCE.

"hrs

_ of the committee, under whose authority and by whose order such expenses
shall have been incurred; provided, such certiﬁcate be ﬁrst approved by
the governor.

71. SEO. 2. That if any person or persons shall be summoned in writ
ing, by order of any such committee. to testify before it and shall refuse or
neglect to obey said summons, it shall be lawful for the speaker of the house
of assembly or the president of the senate, upon application to him, by war
rant under his hand, to order the sergeant-at-arms of the house over which
he shall preside to arrest such person or persons and bring him, her, or

Proviso.

Obedience to
summons, how

enforced.

them before said committee; and it shall be the duty of the se|'geant-at

arms to whom such warrant shall be directed to execute the same.

An act concerning sealed instruments.
Approved April B, 1875.

'72.
l. That in every action upon a sealed instrument, or wherea
set-oﬂ' is founded upon a sealed instrument, the seal thereof shall be only
presumptive evidence of a sufficient consideration, which may be rebutted
as if such instrument was not sealed; and that all instruments executed
with a scroll, or other device by way of a scroll, shall be deemed a sealed
instrument. (a)

P. L. 1875, p. 56.
In actions on
sealed instru
ments, seal only
presumptive evi

dence of consid
eration.

An act providing that any husband or wife may give evidence in
their own behalf, or for or against each other, in proceedings for
divorce on account of adultery.
Approved February i6, 1861.

73. SEC. l. That any husband or wife may give evidence on their own
behalf, or for or against each other, in any proceedings in this state for
divorce on account of adultery, any law of this state to the contrary not
withstanding; provided, this act shall not apply to any proceedings for
divorce commenced before the passage of this act. (b)
74. Si-‘.0. 2. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions
of this act be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this shall be a
public act and take effect immediately.

An

P. L. 1881, p. 24.
Husband and wits
may give evi
dence in proceed

ings for divorce
on account of
adultery.
Proviso.
Repeaier.

act respecting the examination of witnesses before legislative
committees and providing for the punishment of witnesses refusing
or neglecting to appear or give evidence before such committees.
,

Approved March 5, i895.

75. Sac. i. That in any investigation or inquiry by any joint committee
of the legislature, any standing committee of either house, or any special
committee which shall have been or may be by resolution directed to enter
upon such investigation or inquiry, all witnesses sworn or afﬁrmed before
such committee shall truly answer all questions put to them which the
committee shall decide to be proper and pertinent to such investigation or
inquiry; and no witness shall be excused from answering any such ques
tion on the ground that to answer the same might or would incriminate
him, or tend to crimiuate him ; but no answer made by any witness to any
such question shall be used or admitted in evidence in any proceeding
against him, except in case of a criminal proceeding for perjury in respect

P. L. 1895, p. l6Z
\\’itncsses before
legislative com

mittees to answer
all questions.

Evidence given
shall not he used
against witness

unless in case of
perju ry.

(<1) This section, together with section 16, aniz, puts contracts
nndi-r seal on the mme footing as contracts not under seal, with
rwpeet to the method ofmnking the defense of an inﬁrmity in
the c-msaderatlon, except that there cannot be recoupmentin
lmmus on sealed instruments. Wake-man v. Jllingsworth, ll

l'r- 4<ll.decided in H78. Becoupmeutsof damages are. however,
new extended to actions on contract-Iunderseni by rule 83 ofthe

wpreme court, pmmnlgated in 1855. The above section and
mmlnn l6, aw, establish new rules of evidence, but were not
intended to abolish all distinction between simple contracts

Ind specialties. It L1 not a goorl defense ton promise inwritinpz
wvlrr "Ill. in pgy a Burn or money, for value received, that it
was voluntary. All:-r v. Aller, ll Vr. 446. The act of 1875
(section 7'2 above) was not intended to invalidate instruments

where the consideration intended to pass by the parties was
gala: nor does it apply to a release under seal. Braden v.
ard, 13 Vr. B18. Walnv. Waln, 24 V1-.429. A reiease,cxecuted
in Pennsylvania, with a scroll in place of a seal will he re
garded as a simple contract in this state, the law ofthe former
slate not being shown. lb. The act of l875<loes not of itself
avoid a voluntary conveyance. Oompoelt v. 7b1npki]]§, 5 Slew.
170 : nﬂirmed, 6Slew. 862.
(b) Prior to the passage of this act neither husband nor wife,
in a suit for divorce for adultery wnsa comp:-tent witness to
rove or disprove the chanze.

hlnrsh v. .'IInrsh,2 Strw.296.

ghunhty v.I)ou,qN:u, 5 Slew. 3?.
Well: v. Wells, 6 Stew. 4.

Frrmze v.Fran.-e, 5 Stew.483.

E.\'ECU'i‘l().\'S.

1414

Penalty for refusal
IO IIDBWQP.

to his answer to such questions; and if any such witness shall refuse to
answer any question so decided to he proper and pertinent he shall be
deemed guilty of a inisdeiueanor.
76. Si-:0. 2. 'i'hat if any witness summoned to appear before any su ch
committee shall willfully neglect or refuse to appear in obedience to the
summons, or shall refuse to be sworn or aiiiriued, he shall be deemed

guilty of a misdemeanor.

Executions.
\'I. IilS(‘()\'l~Zll\' I.\' AID OF.

I. FORM OF A.\'D Ill-I(‘ﬁRI)I.\lll.

Z3. Amended by sections 39 and 4i.
1. Form of writ against goods and lands.
2. Execution against lands to be recorded.

.’$!3.‘-?§l. 3.‘3§

Amended by section 40.
Amended by section 37.
1-Zxamination to be certiﬁed to judge.

ll. \\'lIAT MAY BE I.i'I\'Il-II) OX.

Receiver.

Dlsniissal ofpetitlon.
Penalty for d isobeyim; subpmna.

Money.
Notes, stock, ttc.

Filing of papers and 1-err:/writ-i‘.
Fees of commissioner.

99*?‘ Clerk or cashier ofconipaiiy to give certiﬁcate.
Proceedings when clerk, cashier, &c., ofjoint stock com

VII. SA LP. l'.\'I)l-IR.
puny is non-resident.
Sui-ii clerk. J;c.. to return statement and certiticate.
llow proprietary rights levied on and sold.

-0
G4

°9°.*‘
. Repealed.

Advertisement ofsaie oi goods.
\'liI. I’l{()Cl-Ii-ll)i.\'(}S t)_\' ('LAl.\[ OF I"l{i')Pl'IRT\'.

82. Ad_ioiirtimeut by sheriff.

Application to and trial byjudgie.

33. Verdict protects slierltf.

Ill. PR(')I’l~IRTY E.\'E.\(!’T 1-'R().\I.
I X. SI'l’I’Ll!I.\l i'I.\'T§.
10. Amended by section 3.1.
11. t-.iherlil' to make inventory and appoint appraisers.

34. Execution azainst municipal corporation or township , how

12. Duty ofnppruis-ei s.
13. Fees ofsheriffand appraisers.

' '" \\'hat property exempt from seizure under execution.

served.

14. Exemption win-re executions issue into diiferent counties
17». By wiioui selection to be made ifdefendant absent.
16. Selection, how made ifdefeudant die.
17. Section 9 ofact 0flS-I6 repealed.

36. l-lxecutlon against school district, how served.
37' \\'ituesses required to testify on discovery proceedings.
fendant may have counsel.

I re

38. Repealer.
Amended by section 41.
Proceedings to obtain order fur discovery.
Order for discovery may be made if execution i< returned

.1‘-$3
IV. I"R(').\I \\'HAT TIME P.l.\'I).~i I’ROI'ERTY.
18. Goods bound from delivery of writ, time to be iudorsed.

19. Priority as to lands.

unsatisfied.
42 Certain household goods and

furniture exempted from

seizure in attachment proceedlm:-<.
43. When provisions oi act to apply to income ofproperty held

20. \\'hen purchase of goods before levy, good.

\'. “'1-Il~Il{E PIKISONPIR FOR DEBT EWCAPEB UR
DI ha
21. lfdebtor escape, plaintifff to have new execution.

22. I t‘ lie die, plaintifff may have execution against estate.

in trust for debtor.
H. \Vlien execution is satisfied clerk shall cancel tliejndgment.

45. Clerk’! tee On canceiiiigjiulgiiieiit.
Clerk required to canceljudgmeut on request of interested
party.

I. Form of and recording.
R. s. ass. sso, 976,
979.

P. ‘L. 1850, p. 301.
‘
“
"

An act respecting any execution.
Revision-—Approved March 2'2‘, 1874.

185i, p. ‘Z78.
l85‘.‘.. p.
I854, p. li)ﬁ..

1. That in every writ of execution. which shall be issued against lands,

1855, p. '.'.s-i.

tenements, hcreditanients and real estate. the sheriff or other officer to

“

1858, p. 409.

"

ism, p. :n.

"

1869, p. 498.

wliom the said writ may he directed. shall he commanded, that of the
goods and chattels in his county. of the party against whoin such execu
tion issues. he cause to he made the debt. dainages and costs or sum of
money mentioned in the said e.\'ecutiou; and if sutiicient goods and chat
tels of the said party cannot he found in his county, that then he cause
the whole or the residue, as the ease may require, of the said deht, damages
and costs or sum oi‘ money. to he made of the lands. tenements. heredita
nients and real estate. wliereof the said party was seized on the day when

"

Form of the writ
against goods and
lands.
R. S. 660, § 4.

the said lands. teneineuts, liereditaineuts and real estate became liable to

such debt, (l:tlll{t_Q'tfS and costs or sum of money, specifying the day particu
l:l.l‘l_\', or at any time ai'tei-waiwls, in whose hands soever the same may

EXECUTIONS.

I415

then be ; (a) but when such execution shall be issued against terre tenants,

or heirs, or devisees (unless they shall have made their estate liable
by false

pleading or otherwise), it shall only command the sheriff

or other oilicer, that of the

lands,

tenements,

hereditaments

and

Form, when
against terre ten
ants, heirs or
devisees.

real

estate, whereof the ancestor, testator or person deceased, was seized on
the day when the said lands, tenements, hercditaments and real estate
became liable as aforesaid, or at any time afterwards, or at the time of
his or her death, as the case may require, he cause to be made the debt,
damages and costs or sum of money in the said writ mentioned. (b)
2. That every writ of execution which shall be sued forth against lands,
tenements, hereditaments and real estate, shall, before it be delivered to
the sheriff or other officer, be recorded in a book by the clerk of the court
out of which the same was issued; and the record of such writ so made,
shall be as good evidence as the writ itself. (c)

Execution against
lands to be
recorded.
Ib., Q 2.

II. What may be levied on.
3. Money belonging to a defendant in execution may be levied on and
returned by virtue of such execution,as so much money collected, without
exposing the same to sale.
_
4. That bank notes, bills, or other evidence of debt, circulated as money,
or any share or interest in any bank, insurance company or other joint
stock company, that is or may be incorporated under the authority of this
state, or incorporated or established under the authority of the United
States, belonging to the defendant in execution, may be taken and sold by
virtue of such execution, in the same manner as goods and chattels. (d)
5. That the clerk, cashier, or other officer of such company, who has at
the time the custody of the books of the company, shall upon exhibiting to
him the writ of execution, give to the ofﬁcer having such writ a certiﬁcate
of the number of shares or amount oi‘ the interest held by the defendant
in such company; and if he shall neglect or refuse so to do, or ii‘ he shall
willfully give a false certiﬁcate thereof, he shall be liable to the plaintifff
for double the amount oi’ all damages occasioned by such neglect or false
certiﬁcate. to be recovered in an action on the case against him.
6. That when the clerk, cashier, or other ofﬁcer oi‘ any joint stock coin
pany that is or hereafter may be incorporated under the authority of this
state, who has the custody of the books of registry of the stock thereof, shall
be non-resident in this state, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other
officer, receiving a writ oi" execution issued out of any court of this state
against the goods and chattels of a defendant in execution holding stock
in such company, to send by mail a notice in writing, directed to such
non-resident clerk, cashier or other officer, at the post-office nearest his

Money.

R. s. mo, Q 0.

Notes, stock, &c.
I b., Q 7.

P. L. 1869, p. 493.

May be sold as
goods, drc.
Clerk or cashier of
company to give
certiﬁcate, &c.
R. S. 976, Q 8.

Proceedings when
c1erlr,cnshier,<itc.,

ofjolnt stock com
pany is nonresi
dent.
P. L. 1858, p. 409,
Q1.

reputed place oi‘ residence, stating in such notice that he, the said sheriff

or other officer, holds such writ of execution, and out of what court, at
whose suit, for what amount, and against whose goods and chattels, such
writ has been issued, and that by virtue of said writ. he, the said sheriff
Or other officer. seizes and levies upon all the shares of the stock of such
company held by the defendant in execution on the (lay of the date of
(cl A levy may be made on lands acquired after the date of
the judgment, or which have been conveyed to other persons

lafxmnlaiie dale of the execution. Den, Green v. Stulman, 5
lb) Ajndrrment szainntnu heir or devises upon hinindlvidual
debt, and levy of an execution issued thereon upon lands de
scended or devised prior to the commencement of an action
Ntninsi the heir or devisee upon n debt oi’ the ancestor or testa
tor. is not un alienation within the meaning of the " act for the

relief of crv-dliors against heirs and devisees." Jlfuldoon v.
Jlomv, an l'r. 410. The supreme court has mu power to set
nlds and annul, for good cause, levies and sales made by
sheriﬁs and other oiilcersin execution ofﬂnui process issued
out of mid court, when proper parties are or can be brought
before lhe ('mIrL l'norhI.n v. Iirrhune, 2i I'r. 1-l7.
tr) it mim. be m-mnuy recorded. A mere entry of the tllis
and due of entry in the book ofexecutions is not Bilﬂiclent.
irrrllen v. L‘hn,{fr-rw, 4 Zab. 507. Elnmr V. Burgm .Pvrn. ‘H6.
The clerics certiricate indorsed on the execution issudicient

evidence that it was recorded before it was delivered. Den ,
Vzmdervere v. Gaston, 4 Zal). Hi8, 1 Dull.-h. 615. Although the
lainiiifcan rove that an execu ll0l1 delivered to and indorsed
y the sheri , previous to the delivery of the plaintifff's execu
tion, was not rrewdcd unili after his was delivered. Jolnuton
v. Dnrrah, 8 Hal. 282. The one ﬂrstacinaliy recorded is en
titled to priority. 1b. Clement v. Kniyrhn, 2 Jill.-Chrl. 48. Without
such recording the sheriffhus no authority to lev_vor sell. Dm,
Vandn-vera v. Gaston, 4 ﬂlb. 818. The plnimlif in ajunlor
udgment, by suing out and l£‘\‘_\'lnqih9 ﬁm execution upon

an , acquires a riority oflien. ii'I!lx v. M1-Khmry, 1;: l'1'. 120.
See, also, B0geri)v. Lyzlccker, iii V1". 814. Clement v. Kulyhn, 2
Air/‘411'I. 43.

(<1) shares ofsiock in a hank or other incorporated Mmnnny
are not bound by the delivery ofaji./u. to the sherii'i‘m_znln.~t
their owner, but may be transferred before an acinai levy.

1c:’|;ir1z..rrlon Bank V. Orozer, 2 Zak. 883. Rogers V. Slcveru, 4 Hal.
67.

I-IXECUTIOXS.

H16
Sin:-rill l0 mall
notice and set up
notice on com~
plny's place of
bnslnms.

such written notice; and it shall also be the duty of such sheriﬁ' or other
oﬂicer, on the day of mailing such notice, as aforesaid, to nﬂix and set up

upon any oﬁice or place of business of such company, within his county,
a like notice in writing, and on the same day to serve like notice in writing
upon the president and directors of said company, or upon such of them
as reside in his county, either personally or by leaving the same at their
respective places of abode; and the sending, setting up, and serving of
such notices in the manner aforesaid, shall constitute such levy taken, a

Transfer by de
lcndant In execu
tion thereafter
void.
such clerk, &c.. to
return statement

and certlﬂmte, &c.
Ib., Q 2.

valid levy of such writ upon all shares of stock in such company, held by
the defendant in execution, which have not at the time of the receipt of
such notice by the said clerk, cashier or other oﬁicer, who has custody of
the books of registry of the stocks thereof, been actually transferred by the
defendant; and thereafter any transfer or sale of such shares by the defend
ant in execution, shall be void as against the plaintiff in said execution,
or any purchaser of such stock at any sale thereunder. (a)
7. That the non-resident clerk, cashier, or other oﬂlcer in such company,
to whom notice in writing is sent, as prescribed in the preceding section,
shall thereupon send l‘orth\vith, by mail or otherwise, to the oliicer having
such writ, a statement of the time when

he received such notice, and a

certiﬁcate of the number of shares held by the defendant in such company
at the time of the receipt by him of such notice. not actually transferred
on the books of said company ; and the said sheriff or other oﬁicer shall on
receipt by him of such certiﬁcate, insert the number of such shares in the
I-‘or refusal of, or
mlse certiﬁcate
liable lo double
damages.

How proprietary
rights levied on

and sold.
R. S. 660, Q I3.

Executions to
issue out ofsu
preme court to
sherlifof Burling
ton or Middlesex.

sale of, how
mdvenlaed.

inventory attached to said writ ; and if such clerk, cashier, or other oﬂicer

in such company, neglect to send such certiﬁcate, as aforesaid, or if he
shall willfully send a false certiﬁcate, he shall be liable to the plaintifff for
double the amount of all damages occasioned by such neglect or false
certiﬁcate, to be recovered in an action on the case against him; but the
neglect to send, or miscarriage of such certiﬁcate, shall not impair the
validity of the levy upon the stock.
8. That all proprieties, rights, share and shares of propriety, and rights
to unlocated lands, shall be and hereby are made liable to be levied upon
and sold by executions, to be issued on judgments, for the payment of the
debt or damages, and costs or sum of money thereby recovered, in the same
manner as lands, tenements, hereditaments and real estate are made liable
to be levied upon and sold; but every such execution shall issue out of the
supreme court, and if the said shares or rights be within the western
division, shall be directed to the sheriff of the county of Burlington, and
if within the eastern division, shall be directed to the sheriﬁ‘ of the county
of Middlesex; and further, that the said sheriﬂ‘ shall give notice by adver
tiscments, signed by himself and put up in ﬁve or more public places in the
said county, and by an advertisement in one of the newspapers published
in this state, of the time and place of exposing such shares or rights to
sale, at least two months before the time appointed for selling the same.

9. [Repealed by P. L. i879, p. 292.]

III. Property exempt ﬁom.

10. [Amended by Sec. 35, posh]
Proceedings to

sex oﬂ‘.

P. 1.. l85l, p. 27s,
Q 2.
P. L. 185-I, p. 108.
Amended.

Sherlﬂ‘ to make
In ventory.

11. That if any sheriff or other officer shall have an execution or civil pro
cess against any defendant entitled to exemption as aforesaid, it shall be the
duty of such sheriﬁ‘ or other oﬂicer to make a careful and particular
inventory of the goods and chattels of every kind and description of such
defendant which shall be subject to levy under an execution, and there
upon to appoint, in writing, three discreet and judicious persons of his
county, indifferent between the parties in said execution, to make a just
and true appraiscment of the goods and chattels so levied upon; which
persons shall, before they enter upon the duties of their appointment,be

(a) As to the duty of the sherlifin levying upon the stock of nu Incorporated company under a writ of execution, see Iber
hL! V. Terliune, '.’l V1‘. H7.

1417

EXECUTIONS.
severally sworn before said sheriff or other officer, or before any person
authorized to administer an oath, faithfully, honestly and impartially to
appraise such propert_v, according to the true and intrinsic value thereof,
and without reference to what the same might be supposed to bring at a
sale by veudue under said execution or process, which said oath shall be
indorsed upon said appointment and ﬁled, together with the same, in the
clerk’s oﬂice of the court of common pleas of said county.
12. That the said appraisers shall appoint a time and place when they
will proceed to make the appraisement aforesaid, and shall cause at least ﬁve
days’ notice, in writing, thereof to be given to the plaintifff in said execu
tion, or to his attorney; and shall at the time and place so appointed,
proceed to make the appraisement aforesaid, in the presence of the plaintifff
in such execution, or his attorney, if he shall see ﬁt to attend, and shall
set down in writing a particular account of the articles and things
appraised, with their respective values annexed,and sign the same; and
if the said appraisement shall not exceed the sum of two hundred dollars,
the said sheriff or other ofﬁcer shall suffer the same to remain in the
possession of the defendant for the use of himself and his family; but in
case the amount of said appraisement shall exceed two_ hundred dollars,
then the defendant may select from such inventory articles to the amount
of two hundred dollars to be reserved for the use of himself and his
family; and shall annex a written statement thereof signed by himself to
said inventory; and the said sheriff or other oﬁicer shall proceed and sell
the residue of such goods and chattels or tools of trade or other property
in payment, or towards payment, of said execution; and in either ease it
shall be the duty of such sheriff or other ofﬁcer to annex the said inven
tory and account made by said appraisers, and the debtor's statement, if
an_v.to the execution or process, and return the same to the court from
which it was issued (a)
13. That the sheriff or other oﬂicer having the execution or process, shall
be entitled to the sum of ﬁfty cents for making the inventory aforesaid,
and for the appointment of the appraisers and drawing and administering
to them the oath aforesaid, the sum of ﬁfty cents; the clerk for ﬁling the
same. eight cents; and the said appraisers for the services required of
them, the sum of ﬁfty cents each, to be paid by the defendant.
14. That when several executions into different counties shall issue on
the same judgment, the proceedings to set oﬁ‘ the property under the pre
ceding sections for the beneﬁt of the family of the defendant, shall be had
in the county in which his family resides. and not in any other county to
which execution shall have issued, except for the deﬁciency of goods and
chattels of the defendant in the former county, to make the amount which
is reserved by law.
15. That if the defendant in execution shall be absent from his place of
residence when the appraisement by the said appraisers is completed and
cannot readily be found, or shall refuse to make selection from the goods
and chattels inventoried and appraised, as above required, such selection
may be made by the wife or family of the defendant, or by the appraisers,
and the statement annexed to and returned with the execution, shall be
Bi edaccordingly.
6. That in case the defendant in execution shall die after execution
issued, and a levy and sale of goods and chattels be made thereafter, the
selection of goods and chattels to be reserved for the use of his family shall
be made by the person or persons entitled to make the selection under the
act entitled “ An act respecting the orphans’ court, and relating to the
powers and duties of the ordinary, and the orphans’ court and surro
gates;"(b) provided, that if the property reserved for the beneﬁt of the
family of the deceased shall be set off under the provisions of the latter act,
the property so set off shall also be the property exempted from sale under

A nd appoint

appraisers.

Oath of
appraisers.

Duty of
appmisers.
P. L. I851, p. 278,
Q ‘Z.
Notice of plaini.lﬂ'.

Statement oi‘
goods selected.

Residue to be
sold.

Fees of sheriﬁ‘
and appraisers.
Ib., Q 5.
Paid by defendant.

Exemptlonlin

ease of executions
into diﬂerent
counties.

By whom selec
tion made if de
fendant absent.

How set oﬂ' in
case of death or
defendant.

such execution.
ill] The nfﬂcer has a right to seize and hold the goods of the
0|’ until an appraisement can be mude,and will not be

'5“! in lnspass, although their value be less zhan P-00. Bon

nu v. Dunn, 5 Dutch. 485. See Ktrkpatrbclc v. Caron, 1 V1-.
83°Eub) See 0nPmms' Comvr, Sec. 52.

1418
Ninth aeclion of
act of 1846 repealed
except as to eon
trscts before
Mitch Hth. 185i.

EXECUTIOXS.
1'7. That the ninth section of an act entitled “ An act respecting execu
tions and regulating the sale of personal estate by virtue thereof” [Revi
sion], approved April sixteenth, one thousand eight hundred and forty-six.
is hereby repealed. except so far as relates to contracts made before the

fourteenth of March, one thousand eight hundred and ﬁfty-one.

IV. From what timabinds property.
Binds goods from
time of delivery.
ll. S. 976, Q 8.

Note of time
indoned.

Priority of.

Priority as to
lands.
Ib.. i -i.

Time received to
be indorsed.

Vifhen purchase of

goods before levy
good.
Ib., I 5.

18. That no writ of execution shall bind the property or the goods of the
person against whom such writ is sued forth, but from the time that such
writ shall he delivered to the sheriff, under-sheriff, coroner or other oﬂlcer,
his deputy or agent, to be executed; and for the better manifestation of
the said time, such sheriff, under-sheriff, coroner or other oﬂicer, his deputy
or agent, shall, upon thc receipt of any such writ, indorse thereon, with

out i'ee for so doing, the day of the month and year when he received the
same; and if two or more writs of execution shall be delivered against the
goods of the same person on the same day, that which was ﬁrst delivered
shall be ﬁrst executed and satisﬁed. (a)

19. That where sundry writs oi‘ execution shall be issued against the
goods and chattels, lands, tenements. hereditaments and real estate of the
same person,and suiiicient cannot be found to satisfy all the sums com
manded to he made, then the like priority and preference shall be given in
such cases as is given by the preceding section in writs of execution against
the goods only, and all disputes respecting thc same shall be adjudged and
determined accordingly ; and for that purpose the like indorsement, as afore
said, shall bc made on the said writs, by the proper otilcer, of the time
that he shall have respectively received the same. (b)
20. That if any person shall purchase, in good faith,of a defendant in
execution, any goods or chattels, and pay for the same prior to the actual
levy of such execution, and

without notice thereof, the title of such

purchaser shall not be divested by the fact that such execution had been
delivered before such purchase was made. (c)
V. Where prisoner for debt escapes or dies.
if s debtor escapes
from prison,

plainiiffrnny have
a new execution.
B. B. 33.5.

Ifdebtor die in
prison, upon a

ca. sa., plaintifff
may have execu
tion against his

estate.

21. That if any person who is or shall be committed, in execution, to any
prison, shall escape therefrom, the creditor or creditors, at whose suit
such prisoner was charged in execution at the time oi‘ such escape, may

retake such prisoner by any new capias, or capias ad satisfaciendum, or
sue forth any other kind of execution on the judgment, as if the body of
such prisoner had never been taken in execution. (d)
22. That the party or parties, at whose suit, or to whom any person doth
or shall stand charged in execution for any debt or damages recovered,
his, her or their executors or administrators, may, after the death of the

said party so charged and dying in execution, lawfully sue forth and have
new execution against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, 0!‘
any of them, of the person so deceased, in such manner and form, to all

(Ir) A tax warrant issued and delivered to thecollector before
s 11.11:. is delivered lo tne sheriff, but not levied until alter rue
lovy under the yr. fa , shall huve riorrty over it. Evan: v.
ii'u.l.sIr, 1': Vr. ‘Zsi. In il.\9 absence o u. volunurry accepurncc h

a defendant in execution of the position of baiice l0 the sheri

ﬁrst judgment and execution. Richard: v. N01-ri: Oran! 01..
Span. 136. Where a subsequent execution gains priority throlllll
the inches or fraud of the first execution creditor. (bot V

Wood, 1 liar. 254. Crrrrrlwrland Bank v. Hana, 4 Hm-. rar. W
liamsrm v. Jolt
1 Hal. as Sterling v. i’andevc.7 Rat. ﬂﬂ

or constable holding the writ of execution, there can be no

tc) The goods of the defendant are bound, even against sub

valid levy unless the oﬂioer take actual possession of the goods,
or assert such dominion over tnem as would make him a tres
pasaur in the absence of the writ. Nelson v. Van Gazelle Valw
Mxrrufirrtazring (.b., l8 Slew. 594.
(b) An aria: execution first delivered to thesheriff. is entitled

sequent bnnu jute purchasers, unless sold under cirurmslsnvﬂ
equivalent to u. sale in market overt. Jame: v. Bunret, 61”‘

to priority over an alias u
sequently. as against inn

n an olderjudgment delivered sub
uired by the defendant after the

date of both judgments and
Barnnwi \', IVal.9on,‘Z i'r. ‘L87.

fore the issue of either alias.
After judgment by default en

635. Nvwrll v. Sibley 1 Soullr. '38l. Upon lev
under the execution la good even as

ﬂzle purchasers.
l33.

made. ll!-W

suhsexierrtww

ii'lllinm.<on v. N. J. Southern B. B.

., 29!"

See, also, (be \'. N. J. Jiﬂdland Railway 00., 4 ﬂiers. 126.

(1!) An atlas ca. .ra. may be imued against ldefendantvrhﬁvw

his arrest under the original ca. rm, gave bond to the Bil?!“
Under the insolvent debtors act, and was released from custodii

tered, cxccution issued and placed in the sheriIi's hands, but

and was afterwards reihsed a discharge under the insoiveni

before levy made, the defendants were allowed to come in and
plead, and proceedings on the execution were stayed ; and the
execution against the defendants meanwhile came to the sher
iﬂ"s hands, under which he sold defendant's ropcrty. The

bring an action on thejudgment.

proceeds were ordered to be first applied in sa

ihction of U18

law.

in such case the pialntiﬂ may sue on the bond, or ill"

an nllaa rcr. xa.,or issue execution against goods or isrljiﬁkgl
reversing 10 Vr. GL2.

Du val v. Blumieu, ll lr- 1-v

1419

EXECUTIONS.
intents and purposes, as he, she or they, or any of them might lia\'e had
by the laws of this state if such person so deceased and never been taken
or charged in execution; provided always, that no person or persons, his,
her or their executors or administrators, at whose suit or suits any party
shall be in execution, and die in execution, shall have or take any new
execution against the lands, tenements or hercdltaments of such party so
dying in execution, which shall, at any time after the judgment or judg
ments against such party so dying, and by reason whereof such party was
taken or charged in execution, be by him or her sold, bona ﬁde, for the
payment of any oi‘ his or her creditors; and the money, which shall be paid
for’ the lands so sold, either paid or secured to be paid to any of his or her

But such execu
tion not to atfect
any estate bona
ﬂde sold for pay
ment oi‘ debts.

creditors, with their privity and consent, in discharge of his, her or their

debts, or of some part thereof, nor against any lands, tenements or here
ditaments of such party so dying in execution, which shall have been sold
by reason or any other judgment against him or her so dying in execution.

VI. Discovery in aid of.

23. [Amended by Secs. 39 and ~ii,post.]
Z4. [Amended by Sec. 40, posh]
25. [Amended by Sec. 37, pos-1.]
26. That when such examination of a judgment debtor or oi‘ witnesses
shall he taken by a commissioner, it shall be certiﬁed to the judge making
said order under the hand oi‘ said commissioner; and thereupon, after
considering the evidence of said party and witnesses, taken before said
wminissioner, or by himseli', it shall be lawful for said judge to make
order appointing a receiver (a) of the property and things in action
belonging or due to or held in trust for such debtor as aforesaid, at
the time of the issuing said execution, or at any time afterwards, who
thereby shall receive authority to possess, receive, and if need be, in his
own name as such receiver, sue for such property or things in action; and
it shall be the duty oi‘ such receiver to apply the same in payment oi‘ the
said judgment, and the costs of the proceedings thereon and the reasonable
compensation of said receiver to be taxed by the judge, and to pay the

Examination
certiﬁed to Judge.
Ib., Q -l.

Receiver

Duty of receiver.

rest into said court wherein said judgment was recovered or dockcted, to

be there disposed of according to law; and such judge shall order said
judgment debtor to convey and deliver to such receiver all such property
and rights in action and tlie evidence thereof; and said receiver shall be
Subject to the authority and orders of said court from time to time to be
given, and shall on the fulfillment of his duties, or at other times when
called upon, make report in writing to said court of his doings in the

Order for convey
B1109.

premises.
(ill Tint-uiiogatlons l’I1lli~'l be established by proof, but lfthere

is mi)! evidence, the decision of the judge appointing u. receiver
will not he reversed.

Join-nzay v. Brmrn, 2 Dulch. Ill.

Equity

willnoi lnleriere alter the appointment of a receiver where
only qul-sliODJ oflatv are involved. New].-irk v. Morris, l Ben».
61 Acmaa. cannot be issued wbilo the proceedings are de

WMIIIZ-_ Bmrria v. Sr.-udilcr, 1. Vr.B-i0. A receiver appointed
under lhl! act may ﬁle a. bill in his own name to have ilic prop
erlydbcovered freed from claims and liens put. u
n it in favor
Ofcredilors. )!i'1lr.1' v. Jlurjrmzle, Zﬁlew. 201. Be orea receiver

will oenppolnied. it must appear thatthe execution has been
returned unsalisilcd. It is not enough that the pro rt levied
ﬂnhas been claimed by others and thatthssnle as enin
I.l€\[iitllI-ly adjourned. I-‘mnlmore v. Brmi'n,1l N. J. L. J. 23.

U. "Wu ll19X&i‘nlllllll0ll,|I. does not appear that the debtor has
Dmp-.~rty orthings in nctlon which the receiver would be enti
tled lo l‘0llK'i. u l’€\‘(fl\ er will not be appointed. Van 1i'c.r.i v.
Bwvtiz N. J. L. J. 85. Arcoeiver appointed upon supple
mental proceedings under the execution act, ha.-i, by virtue of

wen appointment merely, no interest in real eslulo held in
lriist lur the jiidgment debtor. Bold V. Dean, 8 DI:-I.-. 193.
“ MR! an order for the examination of a udgment debtor has
he:-ndniyserved on the debtor. and he allb to appear for ex
lirilnniinri, the judgment creditor may
roceed to examine
WlZil('F~('*.ﬂI'l(l an order nppolnllnx B rere ver nmy be made on

lllchexrniizniion withoutexamininglhcjudgmentdebtor. In
Rich ]Il'lr‘9f'11lil{! the Judgecannot determine the rights oflhird

Wm.-is in the prv-port)’ reepeciing which A receiver is applied
iur, but the l'ec1'l\‘cl' may iinililule action for the settlement of

such rights. Ii’ there be a disputed or contested right, a re
ceiver should be a|;_polnted. Cotton v. Bi;/stow, 12 Vr. ".166. On
ilie appolntmento arecelver the title to personal properly,
choses in action and equitable interests of the debtor passes to

the receiver, in virtue of hisa pointnient, without any formal
assignment by the debtor. §(H‘1“I,-7015 v. 11/01-1r+:u,15 Vr. 316.
An order appointing a receiver, made u n ajudgment against
u debtor who has been discharged in ankruptcy ai‘ler_iudg
inent recovered, will be sot aside ifthe debt for which thejudi;
ment was entered was such as to be discharged by the debtor's
discharge in bankru tcy. Gibson v. Gorman, 15 V1-. 825. An
assignment of chases lb action made by n. defendant in execution
alter proceedings for discovery taken under the execution act,
made to an assignee having notice ofthe(procei-dliigs, is void as
against a receiver subsequently appointe . Lblmiun v. Boy‘, 16
l-"r.'l. A receiver may mnlniainn bill to set aside nssignmeiits

Of 111011811888 If 1Y8-lliillien 1, and to discover the debtor's prop
erty which is concealed.

Bergen v. Litlrll, 14 Slew. 18.

Where,

at the time the receiver was appointed, the judgment debtor
was execuilng a building contract, the work being unﬁnished
and the payment under the contract not yet due, it was held
that the execution act does not operate upon such an inchoute

right and that the receiver acquired no title to the payment
which subsequently became due. Williann v. Salmon, 18 Stew.
Z57. A receiver cannot lnierfr-re to an unreasonable extent or
collect an iinreaaonnfile amount for the satisfaction oi‘ the Judg
rnciit creditor's claim and the costs ofproeeedliigs. Dirk-son v.
Shay, 18 Slew. B27. Bee, H.150, llaclcerisuclr Savings Bank v. lbw
lnme, 5 Dick. 297.

EXECUTIONS.

1420
Petltlon dls
missed.
Ib., E 5.

Costs taxed.

Penalty for dia
obeylug subpoena.

Ib., k 6.

Papers, when
ﬁled.
Ib., i T.

Proceedlngs
amended on
cerllorarl.
P. L. 1855, p. ‘:83.

Fees of commis
aloner.

27. That in case the judgment creditor shall not appear and examine
the debtor at the time and place speciﬁed, or after examination of the
party and witnesses, no such property or things in action shall be dis
covered, the petition of such judgment creditor shall he dismissed, with
costs, to be taxed by said judge, which shall be allowed either party after
the rates provided in actions at law; provided, that no att0rney’s fees shall
be taxed or recoverable on either side.
28. 'l‘hat if any party or witness disobey any order‘ of the judge, or any
subpn-na issued as above authorized, and duly served, and the fees of such
witness paid, or refuse on attendance to answer and testify, such party
or witness may be punished by the judge as for a contempt of the court
whereof he is such judge.
29. That the petitions, orders, examinations and reports, made and
taken as above provided, shall be ﬁled with the clerk of the court whence
the unsatisﬁed

executions

issued; and whenever a certiorari shall

be

brought to remove any of the proceedings, the court out of which the
ccrtiorari issued may amend the proceedings in matters of form, and shall
give such judgment and make such order as the judge before whom the
proceedings were had ought to have given or made.
30. That the commissioner shall, for every certiﬁcate under this act, be
allowed the sum of ﬁfty cents. and shall be allowed for taking examina
tions the same fees as are allowed in the court of ehancery to masters and
examiners in ehancery for the like services.

VII. Sale under.
Adverllsemenl of
sale ofguods.

P. L. 18-S3, p. 409,
'4 10.

31. That no sale of any goods or chattels shall be made by virtue of any
execution, unless previous notice of the time and place of such intended
sale shall have been given by the otllcer making the levy, by advertise
ments, signed by himself, and put up in three or more of the most public
places in the township where they were taken, at least ﬁve days before the
time appointed for sale.
VIII. Proceedings on claim of property.

On claim of prop
erty ln wrltlng,

32. That in all cases where any sheriff shall by virtue of any writ of exe
cution, issued out of any court in this state, levy on or take into his posses

aherltf l0 adjourn
and apply lo a

judge for a venire.
Ib.,Q1l.

How right tried.

Verdict shall
protect sherlﬂl
Ib., Q 12

sion any goods or chattels, which shall be claimed by notice in writing, de
livered to said sheriff, by any other person than the defendant, he shall,
immediately upon such claim, delay his sale of the same for the space of ten
days, that the said claimant may within the said term apply to one of the
judges of the court of common pleas, in the county where the goods and
chattels were so seized, for a venire to summon a jury of twelve men, to
try the right of said claimant to said property ; and it shall be lawful for
such judge to issue the same, and direct a return thereof to be to him
made, and to proceed therein as in other cases of trial by jury; but the
claimant shall in all cases give at least eight days’ previous notice in
writing to the plaintifff or his attorney, of the time and place of the said
trial; and either party shall be entitled to process of subpoma. out of the
court from which such execution issued, to compel the attendance of wit
nesses; and the judge before whom such inquest may be held shall have
power to adjourn, upon the application of either party, for a reasonable
time, upon good cause shown for such adjournment. (a)
33. That the verdict of such jury shall be reduced to writing, and signed
by the jury and judge before whom the matter shall be tried, and shall be
ﬁled in the office of the clerk of the court out of which the said execution
issued; and the iuquisition so taken shall protect the said sheriff from any
action, for taking and seizing such property or delivery thereof to the

go) The sherlﬂ‘ has authorlty to reject unlawlhl evidence.
39 , T Vr. 528. Cb: v. Dunham, 4 Hat. Ch. 594.

Obare v. Let-90n,2 J-Iar. 78.

See, also, Harris v. L"nrkpuLric&-,6 'l'r.

EXECUTIONS.

1421

claimant; and if the said property shall be found to belong to the
claimant, the sheriff shall proceed no further with the same; but if it shall
be found to belong to the defendant, he shall proceed to dispose thereof as
is directed in such process; and the costs attending such trial shall be
taxed by the said judge as in other cases, and shall be paid by the plaintifff
at whose suit the said property was taken and seized, if the claimant obtain
a verdict in his favor, and by such claimant, if the verdict is found against
him; provided, that if the plaintifff, upon notice being given to him as
aforesaid, shall indemnify the sheriff against the command of the claim
ant, then he shall suspend any further proceedings therein, and proceed to
sell. (/1)
~

Costs, by whom
paid.

Sheriifto sell, if
indemnified.

IX. Supplements.
Supplement.
Approved March 27, 1878.

P. L. 1878, p. I82.

34. Sec. 1. That when any execution shall he issued against any town,
township, borough or other municipal corporation of this state. by any court

Copy of execution

authorized to issue the same, upon any judgment against such town, town
ship, borough or municipal corporation, whether upon a judgment recovered

ration to be served
on the collector
sud assessor of

before the passage of this act or subsequent thereto, and there shall be no
property belonging to such town, township, borough or othermunicipai
corporation suiiicient to satisfy the same whereon to levy, then the
oﬂieer authorized to execute such process shall serve a copy of the same,
not only on the collector of such town, township, borough or other munici
pal corporation, as is now required by law, but also upon the assessor
thereof, who is by law required to assess the taxes in and for such town,
township, borough or municipal corporation ; and upon receipt of such
cop_v of execution it shall be the duty of such assessor to assess and levy,
in addition to the regular taxes, the amount due upon the said execution,
with interest to the time when the same shall be paid to the officer serving

issued against any
municipal corpo

such munlcipality_

Duty of the as

sessor on receipt
oi’ such copy.

such process, upon all the property within such town, township, borough,

or other municipal corporation ; and this tax shall be assessed and collected
at the same time and in the same manner and under the same conditions,

restrictions and regulations as taxes for other purposes are required to be
assessed and collected in such town, township, borough or municipal cor

poration, and when collected shall be paid over to the oiﬁcer serving the
said process. (b)
Supplement.
Approved February 18, 1879.

P. L. 1879, p. Z5.

35. S1-:0. 1. That the tenth section of the act to which this is a supple
ment, and which reads as follows, to wit [See Sec. 10, ante], be and the
same is hereby amended so as to read as follows, to wit :
[That goods and chattels, shares of stock or interest in any corporation, What property
and personal property of every kind, not exceeding in value (exclusive of °"mP""°"'
under
wearing apparel) the sum of two hundred dollars, and all wearing apparel (0) seizure
execution.
the property of any debtor having a family residing in this state, (d) shall
(u) A shrerlfi holrilnz nu execution has no right, where the
properly levied on is claimed by a third party, £0 require abond
from the piaintiifexeculed by a surety, f the plmntiﬂ himself
is of unquestionable suﬂlcieucy. Harrison v. Allen. ll. V1‘. %.
But. it the pislnliif fails to give ample indemnity after personal
property has been levied on and claimed by a third party, the
sheriff will not he amerced for neglecting or relhsing to adver
use and sell.
Writer V. Lann1ng,1Z V1". 477. Where B sheriff

has taken an ample bond of indemnity from the plaintiff in
clecution he must look to the bond as security against the
claim or third persons.

Admns v. Dmlnn, it Vr. 862.

(0) The execution must be served by the sheriff or oﬂicer
authorized to nerve legal. prooea. A haillﬂ‘, with only a verbal
appointment. is not such authorized oﬂllcer. Gabkr v. Eliza
MA. 12 l'r.3lil, 13 Vr. 79. Property used by L municipal cor
pzmlinu in the exercise of its functions of government cannot
- taken in execution upon n judgment against the corporate

under the act oflifarch 20th, 1884 (P. L. 1884, p. Ml, to levy n. tat
for the pa ment ofajudgmeut.

Thompson v. Wile_v, 17 Vr.-176.

A writ o maniiamu.r served on the assessors of taxes after
their duties were completed for the year will not be quashed,

gpt‘the2;ime for its return will be extended. llruivn v. Jtahway,
'1‘. 9.
(c) A lace shawl is wearing apparel and exempt from execu
tion—rings and Jewelry are not. Frazier v. Barnum, 4 C. E’.
G1‘. 316.

(:1) If the family reside here. the goods of an ahsconding
debtor are exempt. Donnell v. Dunn, 5 Dutch. 435. ()u s. judg
ment against a married womun,s. sheriff seized her chattels.
She was living with her husband, who was insolvent and con
tributed hut little to the i'smi1_v's support, and she hmi for sev

eral years almost entirely maintained him and her children.
Jirld, that her right to claim exemption as “ a debtor having B
family residing in this state" not einlz clenr, she was not en

rm-am of payment out of the puhilc revenues, W rich duty is

titled to an injunction restraining the sherltl’ from selling the
chattels which she claimed were exempt. Muir v. Hm:-rll, 10
Stew. 39. A mother living with her married daughter and the

enforceable by 1nnndamu1.

daughter's husband, the rimuzhter being a minor, is not the

body, The cmuiwr may establish his claim by ]u<igment,ani1
It then becomes the duty oi’ the proper olilrers to rovidc the
l.'i9.

In/cm V. CH1! "I Hlzllbl-’Ul, 14 V1"

Jlunliny v, Iznlimrm. H i’r. 3-14.15 l'r. 395.

N0 mamkimua

will be allowed to compel commissioners of taxation appointed

head oi’ the family, especially when the mother has no more
means than the son-lu-law. Briggs v. Jlrll, 8 N. J. L. J. ‘:51.

EXECUTIONS.

1422

be reserved, as well after as before the death of the debtor, for the use of
his} family, and shall not be liable to be seized or taken by virtue of any

Proviso.

execution or civil process whatever, issued out oi‘ any court of this state,
except the same be issued on a judgment founded on a contract made before
the fourteenth of .\larch, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one; pro
vided, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed or held to protect
from sale, under execution or other process, any goods, chattels or property,
for the purchase whereof the debt or demand for which thejudgment on
which such execution or process was issued, shall have been contracted; (a)
or to apply to proccss issued for the collection of taxes.] [See Sec. 42,
posh]
Supplement.
Approved March 7, I881.

P. L. 188i, p. N.
Executions
against school
districts, how

served.

Assessor to assess
and levy amount

due upon execu
tion upon inhabi
tants, &c., of
school district.

Tax, how assumed
and coliecled, and

to whom paid.

. 36. Sac. 1. That when any execution shall be issued against any school
district of this state, or against the trustees of any such school district as‘ a.
body corporate representing such school district, by any court autiiorized
to issue the same, whether upon a judgment recovered before or subsequent
to the passing of this act, and there shall be no property belonging to said
school district or body corporate sufficient to satisfy the same liable to be
levied on, then the oﬁicer authorized to execute such process shall serve a
copy of the same upon the assessor or assessors of the township or townships
in which said school district is situate, and also upon the collector or col
lectors of such township or townships; and upon receipt of such copy or
copies, it shall be the duty of such assessor or assessors, at the time of the
next regular assessment of school taxes in such school district. to assess
and levy in addition to said regular school taxes. the amount due upon
said execution, with interest to the time when the same shall be paid to the
oﬁicer serving such process, upon the inhabitants of said school district
and their estates, and upon the taxable property therein; and this tax
shall be assessed and collected at the same time and in the same manner
and under the same conditions, restrictions and regulations upon the asses
sor or assessors, collector or collectors as other taxes for school purposes are
required to_ be assessed and collected in such school district; and the

amount of this tax when collected shall be a separate fund, and shall be
paid over by the collector of the township in which such school district
shall be situate, or if such school district be situate in two or more town

ships then by the collector of that township in which the fraction of the
school district containing the school-house is situate, to the oﬁicer serving
the process.
Supplement.
Approved Marci: ‘.22, 1ss2.

P. L. issz, p. 154.

37. SEO. 1. That section twenty-ﬁre of the act to which this is a sup
Witnesses re
qtllred to testify
on iilscovery

proceedings.
Defendant may
have counsel.

Repealer.

plement be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows:
[Witnesses may be required to appear and testify concerning said mat
ters, by either party, by process of subpoena ad testiiicandum, issued out of
the court whcrcin such judgment shall be iccovercd or docketcd,and the
defendant or defendants to any judgment shall bc entitled to be represented
by counsel at any examination under this act, and cross-examine any wit
nesses sworn an(l examined, and the judge or commissioner may adjourn
the examination from time to time, at the instance of either party, as may
be needi'ul.] (b)

38. Si-:0. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act be
and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act shall take effect
immediately.

(a) The articles must have been purchased with the purpose
or definudinz the plaintiﬁ, or the credit therefore obtained by
false or fraudulent representations. Sloulniburgh v. Kurlklr, 2
)llr(l1rt. 33. On a judgment and execution obtained by the

the oﬂicer other chsttels which he said he owned, and which
‘l;eli'e<‘.|’uc;led the officer to levy upon. N1 nry v. Hinddey, -t .\'.

payee against the maker ofa note given in part payment nr the

examination of Wlill9S‘4£'8 be had \\'lihDi.llJ)El'D0lill notice to the
defendant. the proceedings will be set asi e as irregular. Mn»
non v. J!-.\!ur!ri¢', iii i'r. 427.

price ofa horse.the horse was levied on in the hands ofthe maker
oi’ the note. Ilrld, that the maker of the note could not claim
the horse as exempt from execution, although he pointed out l0

.

4. . i i.
(1)) if under an order for discovery in uld of execution an

1423

EXECUTIONS.
Supplement.
Approved March 17, 1887.

P. L. 1887, p. ea.

39. Sec. 1. [This section,amending Sec. 23, ante, is amended by Sec.
41, pos-L]
Supplement.
Approved April 7, 1890.

40. SEC. l. That section twenty-four of the act to which this is a sup
plement be and the same is hereby amended so as to read as follows :
[That the judgment creditor, before he shall be granted such order, shall
present to said judge a petition, veriﬁed by the oath of such creditor, his
agent or attorney, (a) in which he shall state the amount due on said execu
tion, the return made thereon by the officer to whom it was issued, and
his belief that said judgment debtor hath property or money, or things in
action due to him, or held in trust for him, where the trust has been
created by or the fund held in trust has proceeded from himself(b) over and
above such property as is or may be reserved by law, to an amount exceed
ing ﬁfty dollars, on presentation whereof said order shall be made; and

the said judge shall further, on allegation in said petition, or in one sup
plementary thereto, and proof by the oath of the party, or any other
person, of facts and circumstances, showing that any person owes the said
debtor otherwise than for his labor or personal services, (0) or the labor or
personal services of any member or members of his family, or holds
money or property in possession or action in trust for him, or i'or his.use
as aforesaid, make order forbidding the payment of such debt, or the
transfer of said property or money by or to the said debtor, or any third
person, until further order to be by him made; aﬂldavits verii'ying said
petitions, may be taken before any ofﬁcer authorized by law to administer
oaths; and if any person, in any aﬁidarit or examination taken under
this act, shall willfully and corruptly swear falsely, he shall be deemed
guilty of perjury.] [See Sec. 43, post]

P. L. 1890, p. ms.

Proceedings to
obtain order for
discovery.

Injunction.

False swearing,
perjury.

Supplement.
Approved March 27, 1893.

41. Sec. l. That section twenty-three of the act to which this is a sup
plement [sec Secs. 23 and 39, ante] be and the same is hereby amended
so as to read as follows :
[That when an execution against the property of any debtor, individual,
corporation,(d) unincorporated company or voluntary association, upon a
judgment recovered or docketed in the supreme court, or in the circuit
court, or court of common pleas in and for any county in this state, or
which now is or hereafter shall be docketed in the court of common pleas
from any of the courts for the trial of small causes in this state, or from
any of the district courts in any of the cities in this state, shall be returned
by the oﬂicer to whom it is delivered unsatisﬁed, in whole or in part, it
shall be lawful for any judge of the court out of which said execution
issued in term time or vacation, on application by the judgment creditor
in manner hereinafter provided, to make order requiring the judgment
debtor to appear and make discovery, on oath, concerning his, its or their
property and things in action, before such judge or a supreme court com
nu) An execution returned in the manner pointed out by sec
tion 23 (now amended by section 4|), and n peiiiion in compli
ance with the requirements ofseclion ‘M (now amended by sec

P. n 1Bi)3,p.-150.

Order for dis
covery if execu

tion returned
unsatisﬁed.

reached by a Judgmentcreditorof the iegatee by supplementary
roceedinga.

Linn v. Dams, is N. J. L. J. 207.

ncome oi’ such trust mud exceeds $4,000, see Sec. 43,

Where the

I.

Uon 401. are ihe jurisdictional facts upon which lhe power tn
make an order for discovery rests. Service of the order may

Lion act is not entit ed to wages due lo the defendant in execu

be made beyond the

tion tor his personal services.

the line.

urlsdlclion of the court, and even out oi

Bsyffrl v.

Lyon, I8

Vr. 428.

Prior to the amend

llillll oi I-eciion 24 by section 40, the peiiiion by the piainliﬂ's
I81‘!!! Wu not authorized. Wm!/all v. Dunning, 21 Vr. 459.
(bi Where the rrusr has proceeded from any person other

ihan ihe dobior himself. it is exempt.
4 C L‘. Hr. 3i7.

Fruzirr v. Me Wdlimm,

Accumuinlions ofimerest upon a fund held by

s inlsiee which haa not

roceeded from the debtor cannot be

reached by ihe (lEhl0I"§ udgment creditors under supplemen

!lP! Droeeedings taken under the execution net. Hardenlmrgh
"- Blair. 3 Sb u‘. M6. Where n ﬂind is given to executors to
KPQP invested and pay over the interest to a iegntee during his
iiie. I trust is created and the income of such mud cannot be

(c) A receiver appointed under the provisions oi’ l e execu
Howe-u v. Mclwu-cu, 18 Vr. 859.

A receiver will nor. be a pointed for monies due to n physician
for his professionnl serv ces, as they are included in the excep
tion of mone s owing to the debtor for his " labor or personal
services."
nlmore v. Bmum. ll N. J. L. J. B.
(cl) Yrior to the amendment oi’ this section by the act of 1893
the property of acorporntion being a judgment debtor could
not o reached under supplementary proceedings taken under
the execution net. (bnmr v. Tbdd, Ii) Vr. 861. In aproceeding
for a discovery under this statute it is not a necessary pre
requisite that an execution dr bomls cl !m*ri4 shall have been
issued; n/Lfa. against personaity alone will suﬁice. Wes(/alt
v. IJunnln{1,2i V1-.459.

EXECUTION S.

1424

Proviso.

missioner, to be designated in said order, at a time and place in said order
speciﬁed ; provided, nevertheless, that no such order shall be made when the
amount due on such judgment shall be less than twenty-ﬁve dollars]

Supplement.
Approved March 22, 1%

P. L. 1595, p. 697.
Certain household
goods and furni
ture exempted
from seizure in
attachment pro
ceedlngs.

Proviso.

42. Sac. 1. That the household goods and furniture of every kind, not
exceeding in value the sum of two hundred dollars, of any absconding
debtor having a family residing in this state, shall be reserved for the use
of his family, and shall not be liable to be seized or taken by virtue of any
writ of attachment or civil process whatever issued out of any court of this
state, except the said writ of attachment shall have been issued on a debt
or demand for which said household goods shall have been sold and
delivered; ]n'ovidw1_, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to
apply to process issued for the collection of taxes.
A supplement to an act entitled “ An act to prevent fraudulent trusts
and assignments," approved March seventh, one thousand eight

h un dred

an

d ﬂft y .

(

1)

Approved March 12, 1821).

P. L. 1880, p. 27-l.
When provisions
oi’ act to apply
0 income of prop
erty in-id in trust

for debtor.
Proviso.

43. S1-:c. l. That the provisions of the act to which this is a supplement,
and of all supplements thereto, shall apply to the income of all property,
or money or things in action hold in trust for the debtor, where the trust
has been created by, or the fund held in trust has proceeded from, some
other person than the debtor himself; provided, the income of such trust

property shall exceed four thousand dollars.

An act respecting executions.
P. L. 1894, p. 22.
When execution
is satisﬁed, clerk
shall cancel the

Passed March 21, 184.

44. Sso. 1. That when an execution against the property of any debtor,
upon a judgment, recovered or docketed in the supreme court, or in the
circuit court, or court of common pleas for any county of this state, or

judgment.

Clerk's fee on can
-mlingjudgmeut.

which now is or hereafter shall be docketed in the court of common pleas
from any of the courts for the trial of small causes or district courts of
any city of this state, shall be returned by the officer to whom it is deliv
ered, satisiied,it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court out of which
such execution issued to enter on the margin of record of the judgment
for which execution issued, the following: “canceled by execution re
turned, satisﬁed,” and to sign his name thereto.
45. SEC. 2. That the clerk of the court who shall enter such cancellation
as aforesaid shall receive for such service the sum of twenty cents to be

Clerk required to
cancel judgment

paid by the oﬂlcer returning such execution, which sum of twenty cents
shall be taxed by the oiiiccr aforesaid as part of the execution fees.
46. S1:-:0. 3. That it shall also be the duty of the clerk aforesaid, upon
request of any person interested in any judgment entered in any of the

on request of
interested party.

said courts, upon which an execution has heretofore been returned, satis

ﬁed, upon receipt of said fee, to enter a cancellation on the record of such
judgment as above mentioned.
1) The act entitled " An wt to prevent fraudulent trusts and assignments,” approved March 7th, 1850 may be found in Nix. Dig.
A . 1&8), p. 297, which act is now embodied in sections 23 to 29, ante, of the act entitled "An act respecting executions," approved
‘M arch 27th, 1 874 .

p-I

622

HABEAS CORPUS.

. Prisoner must be produced, unless in case of sicknem.
. Proceedings in case writ is dlsobeyed.

225;:

l’r0ceeding.~' ifuttuchment is issued against sheriff.
. Prisoner to be produced.
. Power of the county when called in aid

42. Wﬂl‘f8DI for person detaining him.
43. Service oi‘ warrzuu.
H. Proceedings against person detaining prisoner.
-‘I5. Prisoners not to be removed from prison except by Imbeas
-I6.

corpus, tic.
To prevent and punish ilio-gnl imprisonments of citi/.ens of

47.

Limitation ofsuita.

V. HEARING ON RETURN’ OF WRIT AN!) Oitlirlii.
TO DISCHARGE OR REMAND.
The hearing on retum.

When prisoner to he discharged and when remanded.
If committed on criminal charge, court, &c., may inquire

this state carried out of state.
-IS. General issue may be pleaded.
49. Prisoner not to be removed after opening ofoyer and ter
miner.

Information not to be exhibited.

into cau~e
Ifproccss founded on contract, inquiry to be made.

Discharge on criminal charge not to affect civil prone.-Rs.

. Prisoner entitled to speedy trial.

The right to writ in such n case.

Notice to parties interested.
VIII. IIIHIIT OF APP]-I.\I..

All p-(!!‘.\0I|5 buiiable entitled to writ.
Production oi‘ person may be waived.
Proceedings to take ball.

Recognimnce and certificate of commissioner to be ﬁled.
Custody oi‘ prisoner pending proceedings.

In case oi sicltnas of prisoner.

In criminal cases the prisoner may appeal. In ci vii cameo,
either party.
On appeal, prisoner may be discharged or rs-committed.
. Act not to nppl y to huhwu corpus mi tcsllﬂcandum.
Act to be liberally construed.

VI. EFFECT OF DISCH ARGE, I‘I‘I.\'Al'.'I‘I}~IS, &('.
IX. FICPIS.
Prisoner not to be re-imprisoned for same cause.
57. I-‘een of oﬂiicers for services.

Penalty for reimpris-toning.
Penalty for removing, &c., prisoner to elude \vrit.
. Penalty for pcrsms assisting.

X. SC PPLEMENTS.

. Penalty for refusing to obey writ.

Law judges of common pleas may grant writs oi‘ habra:

Punishment.

corpus.
59. Vice chanceiiors may grant writs of habrrn cm";-u~'.

VI I. M ISCELL.~\l\'EOUS PROVISIONS.

Chancellor declared to have and to have had the power to
issue writs of habca: corpus.

Duty ofjmtice oft-"supreme court to iasiic writ.
. Warrant ii'pri.~»oner is about being curried out oft-unto.

I. Who entitled to the writ of‘ habeas corpus.

R.

:>.s.'s, 005.

An act for preventing the injury of illegal conﬁnement, and better
securing the liberty of the people.

P. 1.. ism, p. 312.
Who may sue out
“. rit

Revision -Approved March 27, 187-I.

1. 'l‘hat every person committed, dctaincd, conlincd or restmincd of‘ his
liberty, within this state, for any criininal, or supposed criminal matter,
or under any pretense wiiatsocver, except. in the cases in the ncxt section

speciiicd, nmy prosecute :1 writ oi’ lltlll(.'tlS corpus, according to the provisions
of this act, to inquire into the cause of such imprisonment or restraint.
W ho may not.

2. Tiiat the i'ollowiu_<__>; persons shall not he entitled to prosecute such
writ:

I. l’crson.=» committed or detained by virtue of any process issued by
any court oi‘ the l.'nitcd States. or any judge tlicrcof. in cases where such
courts or _jud_1cs have exclusivejurisdiction under the laws oi‘ the United
States, or shall have :tcquil'cd exclusive jurisdiction by the commencement
of" suits in such courts.

ll. Persons committed or dctnincd by virtue oi‘ the ﬁnal judgment or
decree oi‘ any competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or by
virtue of any execution issued upon such judgnicnt- or decree, unless such
_jii<*lgi1ictit or dccrcc he founded upon contract; hrt no order of commit
ment for any ﬂll(‘gt'_‘(l contempt. or upon proceedings as i'or contempt. to
enforce the ri_<_zhts or remcdics oi‘ any party. slrall he deemed a judgment

or decree within the incuiiing oi’ this section; nor shall any attachment
or other process issued upon nny such order, be deemed an execution
within the meaning of this section. ((1.)
'
III. Persons in custody or detained for any capital crime, plainly and
spccially cxpressed in

the warrant. or commitment. unless the court or

iu<lge. to whom the application may he uiadc sliull, as an act of discretion,
direct the writ to issue.
(a) Where a defendant was sentenced by the quarter SQSSIOIIS
court to a term in tho stale prison in excess of that prescribed
by statute, he \vas,afu.-r the period of legal sentence had expired,

discharized on hnhms corpus.

E1‘ pnrlc jiﬁlrs Fury, 19 .-V. J. L,

J. H. Sec. also, Slnfr v. lfirrty. 8 Vt‘. 368.
l'r. 6122 reversed, ii Vr. 372.

Dririd v. Blundell, 10

HABEAS CORPUS.

1623

II. The application for the writ, its form, &c.
3. That application for such writ shall be made by petition, signed
either by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some person in his
behalf, as follows:
I. 'l‘o the supreme court during its sitting; or,
II. During any term or vacation of the supreme court, to the chief
justice, or- to any one of the associate justices thereof, at chambers.
4. That the petition must state in substance:
I. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for is imprisoned
or restrained in his liberty; the oﬂicer or person by whom he is so con
ﬁned or restrained, and the place where; naming both parties, if their
names are known, or describing them, if they are not.
II. The cause or pretense of such conﬁnement or restraint, according
to the best of the knowledge and belief of the party.
III. If the conﬁnement or restraint is by virtue of any warrant, order,
process, or commitment, a copy thereof must be annexed; or it must be
averred that by .reuson of such prisoner's being removed or concealed
before the application, a demand of such copy could not be made; or that
such demand was made, and the legal fees therefore tendered to the oﬂicer
or person having such prisoner in his custody, and that such copy was
refused.
IV. If the imprisonment be alleged to be illegal, the petition must also
state in what the alleged illegality consists.
V. It must be veriﬁed by the oath of the party making the application.
5. That the court or justice-to whom such petition shall be presented
shall grant such writ without delay, unless it shall appear from the petition
itself, or from the documents annexed, that the party applying therefore
is, by the provisions of this act, prohibited from prosecuting such writ;
the writ shall be made-returnable forthwith.
B. That every writ of habeas corpus issued under the provisions of this
act shall be substantially in the following form:
“ The state of New Jersey to the sheriff of, &c. (or to A. B.): W'e
command you that you have the body of C. D., by you imprisoned and
detained, as it is said, by whatsoever name the said C. D. shall be called
or charged, before our justices of our supreme court, &c. (or before E. F.,

Application for
writ.

Contents of peli
tiun for writ, and
how veriﬁed.

Writ lo be granted

forthwith.

Form of writ.

justice, &c.), at, &c., immediately after the receipt of this writ, to do and

receive what shall then and there be considered concerning the said O. D.
And have you then there this writ. Witness, &c.”
7. That such writs of habeas corpus shall not be disobeyed for any defect
of form.
8. That all writs of habeas corpus shall be under the seal of the supreme
court, and shall be indorsed with a certiﬁcate that the same has been allowed
and with the date of such allowancc;and which indorsement, if the writ

Not to be dis
obeyed from d4.~
feet. of form.
How writ sealed
and certiﬁed.

be awarded by the court, shall be signed by the chief justice, or, in his ab
sence, by the presiding officer of such court; if it be awarded by ajustice
of said court, the indorsement shall be signed by him.

III. The service of the writ.

9. That every writ of habeas corpus issued under this act, may be served
by delivering the same to the person to whom it is directed ; if he cannot
be found, it may be served by being left at the jail or other place in which
the prisoner may be conﬁned, with an under oiﬁcer, or other person of
proper age, having charge for the time of such prisoner.
10. That if the person upon whom such writ ought to be served, con

Servlce of writ.

ceals himself, or refuses admittance to the party attempting to serve the

conceals himself.

same, it may be served by affixing the same in some conspicuous place en
the outside, either of his dwelling-house, or of the place where the party is
conﬁned.
1b., where person

1624
Fees must be
tendered.

And bond,

when required.

HABEAS CORPUS.
11. That the service of the writ shall not be deemed complete, unless the
party serving the same shall tender to the person in whose custody the
prisoner may be, if such person be a sheriﬁ, coroner, constable, marshal,
keeper of the jail, or other oﬂicer, the fees allowed by law for bringing up
such prisoner, together with the charges for carrying him back; nor
unless he shall give bond to such sheriff, coroner, constable, marshal, or
other officer, as the case may be, when, in the order allowing such writ, a.

But not applicable

when writ sued
out in behaifof
sure.
Officers, &c., to
obey writs served
on them.

bond is required to be given in a penalty double the amount of the sum
for which such prisoner shall be detained, ii‘ he be detained for any speciﬁc
sum oi‘ money, and ii‘ not, then in the penalty of one thousand dollars
conditioned that such prisoner will not escape by the way, either in going
to or returning from the place to which he is to be taken; and if said
prisoner shall be discharged, such oﬁicer shall repay the monies, which
he may have received, for the charges of carrying back such prisoner.
12. But the last section shall not apply to any case where the writ is
sued out by the attorney-general, or by any prosecutor oi’ the pleas, or
where the court or justice acts therein on his own motion.
13. That it shall be the duty oi‘ every sheriﬁ, coroner, constable. marshal or
keeper of the jail, or other oiiicer, upon whom a writ of habeas corpus shall
be served, whether such writ be directed to him or not, upon payment or
tender of the charges allowed by law as aforesaid, and the delivery or ten
der of the bond herein prescribed, whenever such bond is requisite, to
obey and return such writ according to the exigency thereof; and it shall
be the duty of every other person upon whom such writ shall be served,
having the custody of the individual for whose beneﬁt the writ shall be
issued, to obey and execute such writ, according to the command thereof,
without requiring any bond or the payment of any charges, unless the
payment oi‘ such charges shall have been required by the officer issuing
such writ.
IV.

Return, when
to be made.

Con tents
of return.

The return of the writ, and the proceedings
thereupon.
"

14. That the person upon whom any such writ shall have been duly
served, shall return the same forthwith according to the command thereof,
ii‘ the place at which the prisoner is to be produced be within twenty miles
of the place of service of the writ, such return shall be made and such
prisoner shall be produced within twenty-four hours; and the like time
shall be allowed for every additional twenty miles.
15. That the return shall state plainly and unequivocally :
I. ‘Whether he has, or has not the party in his custody or under his
power or restraint.
II. Ii‘ he has the party in his custody or power, or under his restraint,
the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint, setting
forth the same at large.
III. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant or other
written authority, a copy thereof shall he annexed to his return; and the
original shall he produced and exhibited on the return oi’ the writ, to the
court orjustice before whom the same is returnable.

IV. Ii‘ the person upon whom such writ shall have been served, shall
have had the party in his power or custody, or under his restraint, but
has transferred such custody or restraint to another, the return shall state
particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause and by what authority
such transfer took place; the return must he signed by the person making
the same, and except where such person shall be a sworn public oﬁicer,
and shall make his return in his oiiicial capacity, it shall be veriﬁed by his
oath. (a)
Person making

16. That if, upon the return coming in, the court or justice shall deem

return may be

it advisable so to do, he may examine under oath the oﬁicer or person
examined.

making such return, with respect to the subject-matter thereof.
(a) As to amendment of return, see Pallercrm v. sum, 20 Vr. 326, 21 Vr. 421.

HABEAS CORPUS.

1625

17. That if a writ of habeas corpus be issued, the oﬂicer or person on Prisoner must be
whom it shall ha\'e been served, shall also bring in the body of the person produced, unless
in case of sickness.
in his custody, according to the command of such writ, except in the case
of the sickness of such person, as hereinafter provided.
18. That if the person upon whom such writ of habeas corpus shall have Proceedings in
been dilly served shall refuse or neglect to obey the same, by producing case writ is
disobeyed.
the party named in such writ of haheas corpus, and making a full and
explicit return thereto, within the time required by this act, and no sui'
ﬁcient cause be shown for such refusal or neglect; it shall be the duty oi‘ Attachment lo
the court or justice before whom such writ has been made returnable, upon issue.
due proof of the service thereof, forthwith to issue an attachment against
such person,directed to the sheriff of any county within this state, and
commanding him forthwith to apprehend such person, and to bring him
immediately before such court or justice; and on such person being so
brought, he shall be committed to close custody, in the jail of the county
in which such court or justice shall be, until he shall make return to such
writ, and comply with any order that may be made by such court or
justice in relation to the person for whose relief such writ shall have been
issued.
19. That if a sheriﬂ‘ of any county shall have neglected to return such Proceedings if
is
writ. the attachment may be directed to any coroner, or other person, to attachment
issued against
be designated therein, who shall have full power to execute the same; and sheriﬁ‘.
such sheriﬂ', upon being brought up, may be committed to the jail of any
county other than his own.
20. That the court or justice by whom any such attachment may be Prisoner to be
issued, may also, at the same time or afterwards, issue a precept to the produced.
same sheriff, or other person to whom such attachment shall have been
directed, commanding him to bring forthwith before such court or justice,
the party for whose beneﬁt such writ of habeas corpus shall have been
allowed; who shall thereaiier remain in the custody of such sheriff or
person, until he shall be discharged, bailed or remanded, as such court or
justice shall direct.
21. That in the execution of such attachment or precept, or either of Pnwer of the
when
them, the sheriff or other person to whom they shall be directed, may call county
called in aid.
to his aid the power of the county as in other cases.

V. The hearing on the return of writ and order to discharge
or remand.
22. That the court or justice before whom the party shall be brought on
such writ of habeas corpus, shall immediately after the return thereof pro
ceed to examine said return and the facts as set forth therein, whether the
same shall have been upon process or commitment for any criminal or

The hearing on
rem rn.

supposed criminal matter or not.

23. That if no case be shown for such imprisonment or restraint, or for
the continuation thereof. such court or justice shall discharge such party

When prisoner to
be discharged.

from the custody or restraint under which he is held ; but ifthe party he not
entitled to his discharge, and be not hailed, the court or justice shall remand

When remanded.

him to the custody, or place him under the restraint, from which he was
taken, if the person under whose custody he was, be legally entitled thereto ;
if not so entitled, he shall be committed by such court or justice to the

custody of such other oﬂicer or person. as by law is entitled thereto.
24. That if it appears that the party has been arrested or‘ committed for
some criminal offense, or supposed criminal offense, it shall be lawful for
the court or justice in its or his discretion, to inquire into the cause and

Ifeommitted on
criminal charge,
(‘0Ul‘i, &c., may
inquire into cause»

grounds of the conﬁnement or restraint of such party; and for this pur

pose may summon witnesses and take their depositions; and may by an
order in writing require, of any person, the production of all affidavits,

documents and writings relative to the premises; and if upon such exami
nation it shall appear that such party is not entitled to his discharge, he
shall be bailed or remanded in the manner directed in the next preceding

May take evi
deuce.

1626

If process be
founded nu con
tract, inquiry to

be made.
P. L. 188i, p. 3i2.
Amended.

HABEAS CORPUS.
section; when this coursc is taken the party shall not be entitled to his
discharge by reason of any informality or insufficiency in the original
arrest or commitment.
25. That when it appears by the return, or otherwise, that the prisoner is
in custody by virtue of civil process, issued out of any court of law or equity
in this state, whether such process be a capias ad respondendum or capias
ad satisfaciendum,or other precept whatsoever, in any action of debt, or

other action or proceeding, founded on contract, express or implied, it
shnll be lawful for the said court or justice to make an order for the taking
of testimony concerning the truth of the affidavit, or aﬂidavits, and proofs
upon which the order for said writ was made, and said writ was issued;
which testimony shall be taken orally before said court or justice, or in
writing before any supreme court commissioner; which testimony, when
taken before such commissioner, shall be filed in the otﬁce of the clerk of

Bight to writ in

such case.
lb.
Notice to parties
interested.

Ail persons bail
able untitled to
writ.

the supreme court; and if from the testimony so taken, the said court or
justice shall be of opinion that the said writ was improperly or improvi
dently issued, or should not have been issued, against the defendant therein,
the said court or justice shall order the defendant to be discharged; in
case said imprisonment shall be upon a capias ad respoudenduu_i, the said
court or justice may order the defendant to be discharged upon common
bail, and may take such order for his discharge from arrest or imprison
ment, and the discharge of his bail, as the nature of the case may require,
and as may be deemed equitable and just. (a)
23. That when any person is arrested or detained by virtue of the pro
cess mentioned in the preceding section, he shall have a right to a writ of
habeas corpus as provided for in this act.
2'1. That when it appears, on the return of a writ of habeas corpus, that
the party named therein is in custody on any civil process, under which
any other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or re
straint, no order shall be made for his discharge until it shall appear that
the party so interested, or his attorney, if he have one, shall have such
notice of the hearing under such habeas corpus as the court or justice
allowing the same shall direct.
28. 'l‘hat all persons who are or may be in conﬁnement on a charge of a
criminal oﬁense, which is ofa bailable nature, shall be entitled to a writ
of habeas corpus, as provided for in this act, for the purpose of putting in
such bail; and if, upon the return of said writ, it shall appear that the
prisoner is entitled to be bailed, the said court or justice, within two days
at the farthest after such return, shall discharge said prisoner from his im
prisonment, taking his recognizance with one or more surety or sureties,
in any sum at the discretion of said court or justice, having regard to the
quality of the prisoner and the nature of the offense, for his appearance in
the supreme court the term following, or at the next session of the court
of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery of and f01' such county or
place, where the commitment was, or whcre the offense was committed, or

Production of
person may be
waived.

in such other court, where the said offense is properly cognizable, as the case
shall require, and shall then certify the said writ with the return thereof,
and the said recognizance or recognizauces, unto the said court, where such
appearance is to be made.
29. That when any person, who is imprisoned or who is under restraint,
is desirous of testing the validity of the same, or of being discharged upon
hail, without being brought in person before the said court or justice, he
shall signify such desire in his petition for the writ; and thereupon, in the
allowance of the said writ, a waiver of the production of the body shall be
-inserted; the rcturn, and all other proceedings in other respects, shall be
the same as in other cases, with the exception as to the mode of taking

bail, which may be taken, in thc discretion of the said cour_t orjustice, in
the manner provided for in the next following section.
(a) The twenty-ﬁfth section of the habezu crrrpux act does not
authorize the court or justice before whom n writ of Ilubms

decide upon the sufﬂciency in fact ofthe proofs upon which the
order for the capias was founded. Set: v. Preubm-yer, 20 W.

6017111-l is returned showing that the prisoner is detained by

396.

virtue of a legal cﬂplar ad rcmondendum, to examine into and

HABEAS CORPUS.

1627

30. That in case of proceedings by force of the next preceding section, if Proceedings to
-it shall appear that the prisoner should not be discharged, but is entitled take ball.
to be admitted to bail, the said court or justice, if it is deemed advisable so

"to do, is hereby empowered to direct, in writing, the sum for which such
p‘erson shall be held to bail, and the court, and at what term thereof’ at
which he shall be required to appear; and in the same order shall author
ize a supreme court commissioner to take the recognizance of the person

Before supreme
cou rt com mis
sioner.

so imprisoned, and of two sufficient sureties, in the sum so speciﬁed, with

a condition for the appearance of such prisoner at the court designated in
such order, and that he will not depart from such court without leave;
but previous to taking such recognizance, such commissioner shall be
satisﬁed, by the oath of’ the persons offering themselves as sureties, that
they are residents in the county in which the court before which the
prisoner is to appear is held, and are severally worth double the sum in
which they shall be required to be bound, over and above all demands
against them; and such recognizance so taken, shall be as valid and
effectual as though legally taken before the supreme court.
31. That the said supreme court commissioner shall ﬁle the said recogni
zance, and the order by virtue of which the same has been taken, with the

clerk of the court before which the prisoner shall be bound to appear, and
shall certify on such order, under his oﬁicial signature, the compliance
therewith; the production of such order, so certified, or a copy thereof
duly certified under the hand oi‘ said clerk, shall entitle such prisoner to
be discharged from imprisonment i'or the cause mentioned therein.
32. That until judgment be given upon the return toa habeas corpus,
the court or justice before whom such party shall be brought may either
commit such party to the custody of the sheriff of the county in which
said court or justice shall be. or place him in such care or under such
-custody as the circumstances oi’ the case may require.
33. That whenever, from the sickness or infirmity of the person directed
to be produced by any writ of habeas corpus, such person cannot, without
danger, be brought before the court or justice, the party in whose custody
he is may state that fact in his return, verifying the same by his oath;
and if such court or justice he satisﬁed of the truth of such allegation, and
the return be otherwise suﬂicient, he shall proceed to decide upon such
return, and to dispose of the matter, in the same manner as if such person
had been produced.

Recognizance

valid.
Recogniznnee and
certi ﬂcale of oom
missioner to be
ﬂied.

Discharge.

Custody ni' pris
oner pending pro
ceedings.

in case ofsickness
of prisoner.

VI. Eﬂ‘ect of discharge, penalties, &c.
34. That no person who has been discharged by the order of said court or
justice, upon a habeas corpus issued pursuant to the provisions of this act,
shall be again imprisoned, restrained or kept in custody i'or the same

Prisoner not to be
re-imprisoned for
same cause.

cause; but it shall not be deemed the same cause

I. Ii‘ he shall have been discharged i'rom acommitmcnt on a criminal
charge, and be afterwards committed for the same offense, by the legal
order or process of the court wherein be shall be bound by recognizance
to appear, or in which he shall be indicted or convicted for the same
~oiTense; or,

_

Il. If after a discharge for defect or proof, or for any material defect in
the commitment, in a criminal ease, the prisoner be again arrested on

-suﬂicient proof, and connnitted by legal process for the same offense; or,
III. If, in a civil suit, the party has been discharged for any illegality
in the judgment or process, hereinbefore specified, and is afterwards
imprisoned by legal process for the same cause ofaetion ; or,
‘
IV. If’, in a civil suit, he shall have been discharged f'rom commitment
on mesne process, and shall afterwards be committed on execution, in the

same cause, or on mesne process, in any other cause, after such ﬁrst suit
shall have been discontinued; or,

V. If the prisoner, having been discharged, shall be recommitted, on a
reversal oi the order of discharge, by a court having the right to review
such order.

What nor. same
C8089.

1628
Penalty tor re
lmprlsonlug.

Penalty for re
moving, &c., pris
oner to elude writ.

Penalty for per
sons assisting.

Penalty for refus
lnk to obey writ.

PunlshmenL

HABEAS CORPUS.
35. That if any person, either solely, or as a member of any court, or in
the execution of any order, judgment or process, shall knowingly recommit,
imprison or restrain of his liberty, or cause to be recommitted, imprisoned
or restrained of his liberty, for the same cause, except as provided in the
last section, any person so discharged, or who shall knowingly aid or
assist therein, he shall forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of fourteen
hundred dollars, to be recovered in an action of debt in any court having
jurisdiction thereof, and shall be guilty ol'a misdemeanor.
36. That if anyone having in his custody or under his power any person
for whose relief a writ of habeas corpus shall have been duly issued, pur
suant to the provisions of this act, who, with intent to elude the service of
such writ, or to avoid the etfect thereof, shall transfer such prisoner to the
custody, or place him under the power or control of another, or conceal
him, or change the place of his conﬁnement, shall be guilty of a misda
meanor.
37. That every person who shall knowingly aid or assist in the violation
of either of the last two preceding sections, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
38. That il‘ any ofllcer or other person shall neglect or refuse to make
the returns aforesaid, or any of them, or to bring the body of the prisoner
according to the command of the said writ, or, upon demand made by the
prisoner, or by any person in his behalf, shall refuse to deliver, or within
the space of six hours after demand, shall not deliver to the person so
demanding a true copy of the warrant or warrants of commitment and
detainer of such prisoner, all and every such officers and persons so refusing
or neglecting shall forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved the sum of ﬁve
hundred dollars, and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
39. That every person convicted of a misdemeanor under either of the last
four sections, shall be punished by a ﬁne or imprisonment, or both, at the
discretion of the court in which he shall be convicted; but such tine shall

not exceed one thousand dollars, nor such imprisonment six months.

VII. Miscellaneous provisions.
Duty ofjustlce of
supreme court to

issue \vrlt.

Warrant if pris»
oner is about
being carried out
of stale.

Warrant for per
son detaining him.

Iiorvlce of war
l‘B.UI.

40. That whenever the supreme court, or any justice thereof, shall
have evidence from any judicial proceeding had before them, that any
person within this state, is illegally conﬁned and restrained of his liberty.
it shall be the duty of such court or justice, to issue a writ of habeas corpus,
for his relief, although no petition be presented or application made for
such writ.
41. That whenever it shall appear by satisfactory proof, that anyone is
held in illegal conﬁnement or custody, and that there is good reason to
believe that he will be carried out of the state, or sulfer some irreparable
injury, before he can be relieved by the issuing of a habeas corpus, any
justice of the supreme court may issue a warrant un'der his hand and seal,
reciting the facts and directed to any sheriﬂ', constable or other person, and
commanding such officer or person to take such prisoner, and forthwith to
bring him before such court or justice. to be dealt with according to law.
42. That when the proof mentioned in the last section, shall also be snﬂi
eient to justify an arrest of the person having such prisoner in his custody,
as for a criminal offense committed in the taking or detaining of such
prisoner, the warrant may also contain an order for the arrest of such per
son. for such offense.

43. 'l‘hat any officer or person to whom such warrant shall be directed,
shall execute the same, by bringing the prisoner therein named, and the
person who detains him, if so commanded by the warrant. before the court

or justice issuing the same; and thereupon the person detaining such
prisoner shall make a return, in like manner, and the like proceeding shall
be had as if a writ of habeas corpus had been iss_ued in the ﬁrst instance

HABEAS CORPUS.

1629

44. That if the person having such prisoner in his custody shall be
brought before such justice. as for a criminal offense, he shall be examined,
committed, bailed or discharged in like manner as in other criminal cases
of the like nature.
,
45. That if any person shall be committed to any prison,or in the cus
tody of any oﬂicer or person whatsoever, for any criminal or supposed
-criminal matter, the said person shall not be removed from the said prison
or custody, into the custody of any other ofﬁcer or person, unless it be by
habeas corpus, or some other legal writ or process, or where the prisoner is
delivered to the constable or other inferior oﬂicer, or where any person is
sent by order of any court, or judge or justice of the peace, to any common
workhouse or house of correction, or where the prisoner is-removed from

Proceedings
against person

detaining pris
oner.
Prisoner not to be
removed from
prison, except by
habeas corpus, &c.

n. s. 2&3, 49.

one prison or place to another within the same county,in order to his

trial, or discharge, in due course of law, or in case of sudden ﬁre or infec
tion, or other necessity; and if any person shall, after such commitment
aforesaid, make out, or sign or countersign any warrant for such removal
contrary to this act, as well he who makes, or signs or countersigns such
warrant, as the officer or person who obeys or executes the same, shall, for

every such offense, forfeit to the prisoner or party grieved the sum of ﬁve
hundred dollars, to be recovered in the manner aforesaid.
'
46. That for preventing illegal imprisonment of citizens of this state in
prisons out of this state, no citizen of this state, who now is, or hereafter
shall be, an inhabitant oi’, or resident within this state, shall or may be

sent prisoner to any place whatsoever out of this state, for any crime or
offense committed within this state, and every such imprisonment is hereby
declared to be illegal; and if any of the said citizens now is, or hereafter
shall be, so imprisoned, such prisoner so imprisoned shall and may, for
every such imprisonment, maintain by virtue of this act, an action or
actions of false imprisonment in any court of‘ record having cognizance of
such actions, against the person or persons by whom he shall be so com
mitted, detained, imprisoned, sent prisoner or transported contrary to the
true intent and meaning of this act, and against all or any person or per
sons who shall frame, contrive, write, seal, sign, or countersign any warrant
or writing for such commitment, detainer, imprisonment or transportation,
or shall be advising, aiding or assisting in the same or any of them; and
the plaintifff in every such action shall have judgment to recover double
costs, besides damages, which damages, so to be given, shall 11ot be less
than ﬁfteen hundred dollars; and the person or persons who shall know
ingly frame, contrive, write, seal, sign or countersign any warrant for such
commitment,

detainer,

or

transportation,

or

shall so

To prevent and
punish illegal ini
prlsonmenis oi‘

citizens oflhls
suue carried out
ofstate.

Ib., 5 11.
Amended.

Damages not less
than $1,500.

commit, detain.

imprison or transport any person or persons contrary to this act, or be any
wise advising, aiding, or assisting therein, being lawfully convicted thereof,
shall from thenceforth be disabled to bear any office of trust or proﬁt under
this state, and shall be ﬁned or imprisoned at hard labor, or both, at the

-discretion of the court before which the conviction shall be had; provided
also, if any citizen of this state, or person at any time resident in the same.
shall have committed any treason, felony, or misdemeanor in any other of
the United States, or in any foreign country, where he ought to be tried
for such offense, such citizen or person may be sent to such state or foreign
country having jurisdiction of such offense, there to receive such trial, in
the same manner as he might have been sent before the making of this act.
47. That no person shall he sued or impleaded for any offense against this

act, unless the party offending be sued or impleaded for the same within
two years at farthest, after such time wherein the offense shall be coin
mitted; but if the party grieved shall be in prison, byreason of such
wrongful act, then within the space of two years after the decease of such
party while in prison, or his deliverance out of prison, whichever shall

Proviso.

Limitation of
suits.
Ib., Q 12.

happen ﬁrst.

48. 'l‘hat if any information, suit or action shall be brought or exhibited
against any person or persons for any offense committed against this act,
it shall be lawful for such defendant to plead the general issue that they
are not guilty, or that they owe nothing, and to give the special, matter

General issue may
be pleaded.
Ib., Q 13.

1630

HABEAS CORPUS.
in evidence; and if such special matter, in case it were duly pleaded, had
been good and suﬂicient in law to discharge the said defendant or defend
ants against the said information, suit or action, the same, so given in

Prisoner not to be
removed after
opening of o,vsr
and terminer.

1b., r 14.

An information
cannot be exhib
iled.
1b., I 15.

Discharge on
criminal charge
not to aﬂ'ect civil
process.
Ib., § S.

Amended.

Prisoner entitled
to a speedy trial

Ib., 4 1.

Or discharge.

evidence, shall be as available to them, to all intents and purposes, as if he
or they had suﬂiciently pleaded, set forth, or alleged the said matter. in
bar or discharge oi‘ such information, suit or action.
49. And to the intent that no person may avoid his trial at the sessions
of oyer and terminer, or general jail delivery, by procuring his removal
at such time before the commencement of the court, as he cannot be

brought back to receive his trial at the same court after the sessions of
oyer and terminer, or general jail delivery, shallbeproclaimedfor that
county where the prisoner is detained, such prisoner shall not be removed
from the common jail upon habeas corpus granted in pursuance of this act;
but, upon any such habeas corpus, shall be brought before the justice or
justices of the said court of oyer and terminer, or general jail delivery,
in open court, who shall thereupon do what tojustice appertains; provided,
after the sessions of oyer and tcrminer, or general jail delivery, are ended,
any person detained may have his or her habcas corpus, according to the
direction of this act.
50. That no information, for a matter merely criminal_.for which an
indictment will lie, and in which no civil right is involved, nor forfeiture

or penalty given by law to any private person or common informer, is
prosecuted for, shall, from and alter the passing of this act, be exhibited
or sustained in any court of this state.
51. That nothing in this act shall extend to discharge out of prison any
person charged in debt, or other action, or on process in any civil cause,
unless by virtue of the proceeding herein for that purpose specially pro
vided; and a discharge, under this act, from imprisonment under a
criminal charge, shall not have that effect; but the party so discharged
shall be kept in custody according to law in such civil suit. (a)
52. That if any person shall be committed for treason, murder, man
slaughter, sodomy, rape, arson, burglary, robbery, forgery, or larceny, or
for rescues, or voluntary escapes in any such case, plainly and specially
expressed in the warrant of commitment, upon his prayer or petition in
open court, the ﬁrst week of the term, or ﬁrst day of the sessions of oyer
and terminer, or general jail delivery. to be brought to his trial, shall not be
indicted sometime in the next term, sessions of oyer and terminer, or
general jail delivery, after such commitment, it shall and may be lawful
to and for the justices of the supreme court, and justices of oyer and
tcrmincr, or general jail delivery, and they are hereby required, upon
motion to them made in open court, the last day of the term. session, or
jail deliver", either by the prisoner or anyone in his behalf, to set at
liberty such prisoner upon bail; unless it appear to the justices, upon oath
or atiirmation made, that the witnesses against the prisoner could not be
produced the same term, sessions, or general jail delivery; and if any
person committed as aforesaid, upon his prayer or petition in open court,
the ﬁrst week of the term, or ﬁrst day 0f_the sessions of oyer and terminer,
or general jail delivery, to be brought to his trial, shall not be indicted and
tried t-he second term, sessions ofoyer and tcrminer,or general jail delivery,
after his commitment, or upon his trial shall be acquitted, he shall be dis
charged from his imprisonment. (b)

vm. Right of appeal.
In criminal cases,
the prisoner may

appeal.

53. That all proceedings commenced under this act before a justice of
the supreme court, may be removed, after ﬁnal decision by such justice, b_v
certiorari into the supreme court, that is to say, if the imprisonment is for
an alleged crime, and the decision is against the right of the prisoner to a

(a) Habeas corpus cannot be allowed at chambers where the
writ on which the defendant is detained is legal, and the court
which issued it of conrpetentjurisdicrion. Pvlllwr v Ii!-nn1ng~

(b) The ﬂftyseonnd section of the habau corpus act is not in~
consistent with the six_v-ﬁfth section oflhe criminal procedure
act. The right of prisoners to be discharged under either at

Lon, 2 Gr. B12. An insolvent will be discharged from conﬁne
ment if arrested after his insolvent discharge on ajudgment on

sum, 21 Vr. 421.

a debt contracted before such discharge. Slate. v. Ward, 8 Hal.
120. See State v. Nwrllqf Mlddtucx, 3 Gr. 66.

these sections may be enforced by Mow: corpus. Pnurrson v.

1631

HABEAS CORPUS.
discharge, the prisoner may remove such proceeding; if on civil process

In civil cases,

either party may do so; in like manner the ﬁnal decision of the supreme

either party.

court thereon may be removed, by writ of error, into the court of errors

and appeals; provided, however, that ifa discharge has been awarded, such
apgoaal shall not stay such discharge.
. That the supreme court, and the court oi‘ errors and appeals in the

last resort, shall respectively have the power to make such orders and to

On appeal, pris

oner may be dis
charged or re

direct all such writs out of the supreme court, as may be necessary, for the

discharge or recommitment of such prisoner, according to the judgment
which shall be severally given by said courts; and generally to carry such
judgment into effect.
55. That the provisions of this act shall not apply to the writ of habeas
corpus when used to bring a prisoner before a court as a witness.
56. That this act shall be liberally construed so as to secure, as far as
possible, the liberty of the citizen.

committed.

Act not to apply
to hsbeas corpus

ad tesllﬂcsndum.
To be liberally
construed.

IX. Fees.

57. That the following fees shall be allowed for services performed under
this act :
To sheriff or other oﬁicer for making return, two dollars;
Mileage for himself and prisoner going and returning, at the rate of four

Fees of oilicers
for services.

cents a mile for each ;

Court or justice granting writ, two dollars;
'l‘aking recognizance, one dollar;
To justice taking examination of witnesses on return of writ, three dol
lars per diem;
If same taken before a commissioner, the same fees as in like cases.

[If writ shall be granted by court or justice on their own motion, no fees
shall be allowed.]
X. Supplements.
Supplement.
Approved April $0, 1885.

58. That the law or president judge of any court of common pleas in
any county in this state shall have concurrent jurisdiction in his county
with the justices of the supreme court to grant a writ of habeas corpus in
all criminal cases where any person may be conﬁned in prison or detained
in custody, and to hear and determine the same in the same manner as
though the application had been made before a justice of the supreme
court.

P. L. 1885, p. 286.
Law judges of
com rnon pleas

may grant writs oi
habeas corpus.

Supplement.
Approved May 9, 1889.

59. SEC. 1. That the vice chauceliors, or either of them, shall have the
same jurisdiction, power and authority to grant all writs of habeas corpus,
and to hear and determine the same, that the chancellor of this state now
has, and he or they shall proceed in the same manner.

P. L. 1889, p. ms.
Vice chancellors
may grant. writs

of habess corpus.

An act declaratory of the power of the chancellor to issue and

determine writs of habeas corpus.
Approved April 5, i878.

60. SEO. 1. That the chancellor of this state is hereby declared to have
and to have had the power to issue writs of habeas corpus under the seal
oi‘ the court of chancery and to hear and determine the same, notwith
standing the provisions, or any of them, of the act entitled “An act for
preventing the injury of illegal conﬁnement and better securing the lib
erty of the people” [Revision], approved March twenty-seventh, eighteen
hundred and seventy-four, and in the same manner as if the said act had
never been passed, and the act entitled “An act for preventing the injury
of illegal conﬁnement and better securing the liberty of the people,”
passed March eleventh, seventeen hundred and ninety-ﬁve, had never been
repealed.

P. L. 1878, p. 350.
Chancellor de
clared to have,
and to have had
power to Issue

writs ofhabeas
corpus.

.

1840

JUDG.\'iE.\"l‘S.

Supplement.
Approved March -i, 1547.

P. L 1947, p 175.
Freehofilers may
convert part of
jail into a work

61. SEC. 1. That the board of chosen frecholders of the several counties
in this state are hereby authorized to convert so much oi‘ the buildings, in
their respective counties, known as the common jail of the county, as to

house.

them may seem proper, into a workhouse, taking care, in all cases, to
reserve space and rooin enough in the said jails for the uses and purposes
of the public jail, in order that the act to which this is a supplement may
be carried out as fully, to all intents and purposes, in the several counties
in this state, as though a workhouee had been built or purchased according
to the provisions of the aforesaid act. (a)
(a) For distinctlotl between a jail and a workhouse under our old acts. see Fuirbnnlcs v. Sheridan, it Vr. 43-t.

Judgments.
I. LIEN OF.

IV. ASSIGNMENTS OF, RECORDED.

1- 1'3"“! mib“? ‘° be mm r°" “elm

is. Assignment ofjudiznients to he recorded.

2 Judgment binds lands only from entry.

19_ ¢e,.,m,_d c,,pit,s U, he e\.mem.e_

3. Judgment ofcommon pleas not to ai'i'ect land unless a rule
be entered.

29 . Fees for recording asslgnineuL

II. RECORDINQ

V. ENTRY or sA'ri.-1-i\<r1'to.\'.

4. To he entered and indexed tviihin six months.

2i. Manner of making entry of.
2, Party having judgment satisﬁed, to enter satisfaction.

6. Bond of clerk may he prosecuted for neglect.

23. Warrant to enter satisfaction

In‘ DOCKETI XG'
6.
7.
8.
9.

2%. Attorney of record may authorize clerk to enter satisfhctlotl.

Judgment docketed in supreme court.
Clerk to keep docket.
Form of statement to be entered in docket.
Clerks to transmit copies oi’ Judgments to the supreme

2'3. Satisfaction ma_v be entered by survivor.

CO" fl.
I- n-1.;-at-ls-at-on-s

Dockets to be public records.

29. Parties may proceed before court to have satisfaction en

Operation ofjudgmenis docketed in supreme court.
Execution not to issue in court below after docketiug.
Judgment, how revived.

tered.
3‘). Amended by section Bl.
3|. \\’heu judgment is recovered against two or more defend
ants, satisfaction may he entered as to defendant satisfy
ing the same.

Execution to be stayed in case of writ of error.
Judgment may be removed to supreme con rt

j

25. Preceding section extended to mechanics’ hens and decrees
in chancery.
26. Fees for services.
27. Court may order satisfaction entered.

9’.°':“.°'"!".° Proceedings in
-i . Fees of clerks.

case oi‘ reversal.

32 Clerk ofcourt to enter satisfaction upon record ofjudgment
or decree when execution is returned satmiied.

B. S. 660, 826, 974.
9‘J."..

I: Lien of.

P. L. 1.556, p. 195.

An act concerning judgments.

"

1862, p. 2l£i.

“

1867, p. 809.

"

isn, p. ms.

“

1873, p. 47,
H7.

Lands liable to be
sold for debt.
R S. 660. { l.

Revision-Approved March 2.‘, 1874.

1. That all lands, tenements, hereditaments and real estate shall be and
hereby are made liable to be levied upon and sold by executions to be
issued on judgments, which are or shall be obtained in any court oi‘ record
of this state (except justices’ court constituted for the trial of small causes)
for the payment and satisfaction of the debt, damages, sum of money and

costs so recovered or to be recovered; provided, that no lands, tenements,
hereditaments, or real estate, of any testator or intestate, shall be sold or
iii any wise aﬂ'ected by any judgment or execution against executors or
administrators. (a)
tn) \\'here a claim is barred by the statute of limitations at
the time oi‘ the testat0r‘s death, and the debt is to be satisﬁed
out of the real exlnre, no acknotvletlirineiit of the executor will
hind the real estate in the hnnris of the devises-. Slurlr v. Jinn
lon, ‘.1 Hr. ('h_ 300. Bill S98 -$'!ii'a"i'r' V. Joyrr, 7 l'i'. 44. A decree
orjurignient against cK8(‘i|ior! does not hind heirs or de\'i2it*c.~1.
Jluzm \'. Tillman, l lful. Oh. 363. hm \'. ,-I//)‘(8,l Gr. 153. Dvn,
C(iZI)i.\' \'. Colmil, Prov. ‘S75. Hm!!! \'. Ila‘/rr. 3 Dulrh. 4-i. The
private property ofindivit unis within the limits ofn municipal
corporation cannot be subjected to the pn_\'im-nt of its debts ex
cept h_v taxation; nor can property list-1| ll_\'!~'llt7|l corporation in
the P\'vi'CisB of its fuiiciions of zoverniiieiit, Iwtnkeii under
execution. Ai'ier_iudguicnt, the crt-ditor's claim is 4-ni'orce:ii>ie
by mun/Iumux. I.)/mi \'. l'.'Iizn!»Ih. H l'r.l-'1-'4. I’r(i(‘t-etlliii;~ Oil
ajndumi-nt at law will not he enjoined in equity in order to give
tlietlei'r-ndutit an opportuuityto set oil‘ or l‘t‘(‘Uil]) ac0unic:'
claim, where that claim is unilquldated and arose out oi an

entirely distinct transaction. Jur‘I.'Mnl v. BI”, 4 Sm:-. 554.
1-lvidence newly discovered, relevant and niaietinl, \\'|ilt‘lI ap
pears not to iiaveheen undiscovered tlironizh the appa-ilaut's
iiegiim-nice, consisting of pnlwrs in it-.~pomiciii'.~t |m-.~es:-ioii
during the trial at la\v,coiistittiics tzrouiid siiilit-it-iii ior .-l:t_\"ini.:

proceedings on the judizinent obtained at law. and for oni--iim_
it retrial. (“uirn um! Fulhni Ii’. Ii’. f_'u_ \', Tum, 5 Sh u-_ .1307, 3
Slrn‘. fist. A _|ud<.:inent at latv can only he iiiipcaicln-ti in ll(‘v|tll'l
oft-ipiit_v for irzuid iii its coiicnctioii. or upon it pun-i_v mpiitnfile
rlell-|isv_ or l|p|||| iii» nrnttiid iliiti ti ;:umltlo-it~ii~'t-tit l:i\\ li:i_ 0.».-it
lost by rfllllti,lL{lllII'i|IiI'Pli|'§\(_\('i0|Plll.

."fI‘,|(IIliI'\' ,\'uIinnul l.'..,..,,

V, Bdrm! jllvmuf ('u_, ti Slim, -INS; l1"'lI‘tllPt|, N .\‘Io or RH
.|tit1l
inents ofconrts of rt-cm'ti_ Ill one slim-, nu- Piliillml to TPt'n:_'liI
tion by i|tP courts 0l'Si.~‘lt'l'rii.'tit'.'4 as P\'ltlt'li(‘Flt| ii dent, hut they

linvo no cxtra-territorial ioicc as Jtiduiiieiits.

I-Ilizuln ml-m'a

b':|t'ui_r/.1 Ins/itufmn \‘. h'rrb1.r, T -5'!r.‘ir. I30; ltlllrliied. 5 81¢ tit‘. 153.

.
,

"Jr

v\

. j~_f"1°‘ 1
JUDGMENTS.

\‘\)\\§‘€],g,\~$

__ alt
2. That no judgment shall affect or bind any lands, tenements, heredita
ments, or real estate, but from the time of the actual entry of such judg
ment on the minutes or records of the court. (a)
3. Thatjudgments of the court of common pleas upon appeals i'rom the
courts for the trial of small causes shall not affect or bind any lands,
tenements, hereditaments, or real estate, unless a rule shall be entered in

Judgment binds
lands only from

¥€.‘.'i’a.
Judgment of
wmmnn pleas on
appeal not loaﬂ'ect
lands, unlem rule
for recording it

the minutes oi‘ the court oi‘ common pleas in which such judgment shall
be rendered, for recording such judgment, which rule shall be a rule of
course, and may be entered at any time without notice; and it shall be the
duty of the clerk oi‘ the several courts of common pleas, upon the entry
oi’ such rule as aforesaid, to record any such judgment in the book of
judgments oi‘ said court, and index the same, as now required by law
respecting the judgments

he entered.
P. L. 1862, p. 219.
Clerk to record.

of such courts in suits orig__,rinally commenced

therein. which record shall be a transcript from the minutes of the said
court on said judgment, and for this scr_vice the clerk shall he entitled to

receive twenty-live cents; and such judgment shall, from the time of
entering such rule, affect and hind all lands, tenements, hcreditaments and

real estate. within the county where such court oi‘ common pleas is held,
belonging to the person or persons against whom such judgment may be;
and executions against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements, heredita
mcnts and real estate, oi‘ such person or persons, may be issued out oi‘ such
court oi’ common pleas thereupon, immediately upon the entry of such rule.

Binds lands from
such entry.

Execu l.lon on.

II. Recording.
4. That it shall be the duty oi‘ the clerk of the supreme court, and of the
clerks oi" the several and respective circuit courts and courts of common
plcas in this state, to enter on record in a book, the proceedings and judg
ments, and to make a complete alphabetical index to the same, as required
au_d directed by the one hundred and ninety-second section oi" the act
entitled “ An act to regulate the practice of courts of law,” within six
months after the ﬁnal judgment in every civil cause, in which by law such
ﬁnal judgment is required to be entered as aforesaid; and no clerk shall
charge any l'ee therei'or, until such service shall have been actually per
formed; prouidcrl alu-a_I/s, that nothing herein contained shall aiicct the
validity or legal eﬂect oi’ any such judgment, as shall not .be recorded
within the time herein limited.
5. That ii'an_v clerk shall neglect or omit to perform the duty required of

Judgment to be
entered and
indexed within
six mouths.
R. S. 826, § l.

Bond of clerk

him by the preceding section within the time therein nu-ntioned. the
court in which such neglect or omission shall have taken place, may by
an order oi‘ the court, _1_zi\'e notice thereof to the attorney-general of this

prosecuted for
neglect.

state;

Bond prosecuted
by attorney
genernl by order
oi‘ the court.

and it shall he his duty, on receiving such notice, to proceed by

action at law, upon the ofiicial bond of such dcfauiter, for the recovery
oi‘ the penalty thereof, with costs; and when judgment shall be obtained
upon any such bond, the court, where such judgment shall be recovered,

Ib., Q 2.

shall direct so much money to be lcvied thereon by execution, as shall be

suilicient to pay all the expenses of entering or recording the said pro
cecdings and judgments \vhich shall then remain unrecorded by the said
clerk, and indexed as aforesaid; and which service, the court wherein
such default takes place, is hereby authorized and directed to have done
and performed, and paid for out of the money so recovered as aforesaid;
and ii‘, after judgment obtained on any such bond. any other neglect or
default shall take place, the court .i|1 which such judgment shall have been
obtained, shall direct such further sum to be levied as aforesaid thereon,

others performing
service.

Vr. 33. Whenever delay in enterlngajudgment is caused by
the action oi’ the court, judgment mow pro tum‘ will be allowed

fa) Ajudgmem without the issuing ofan execution operates
as I lien from the time oi’ recording it.

Money recovered
to be paid to

Vun-u.'tner v. Bryan, 2

Ems, 434. Rurra v. Johnson. 7 Hal. 29. Bloom v. mm», 3
Dutch. I77. See I/pgvlt v. Doremua, I0 (Z E. Gr. I22. The
plaintifff in sjnniorjudgmenuoy suing outand levying the ﬁrst
execution \Il'>0n land, acquires 5 priority of lien. Willa v. Mr»
Klnnry, 12 Vr. 120. Bogart v. L3:/dweker, 16 Vr. 3|-i. The hour of
the day when Judgment was entered may be roved, as mailer
delwn the record, by competent evidence.
amt v. Swuyze, 28

as of the time when the party would otherwise have been emi
tied to it, ll’ justice requires it: but thejudgment will not, in

such case. be a lien on land.-4 as of u day prior to the dale of
actual entry, and the date of actual en try should be slated in
the minutes. 1VcN/mmra v N. Y., L. E. &' W. R. R. (b.,‘Z7 V1".

56. See, also, rule 40 of supreme court. See, also,Blalc!\ford
v. Ozmnver, 13 Stew. 205.

116

JUDGMENTS.

1842

Bu relies of clerk
not liable beyond
penalty of bond.

as shall be sufficient to pay the expense of recording all such proceedings
and judgments as remain to be recorded by the said clerk, and of making
such index as aforesaid, and which service the court is hereby directed and
authorized to have done and paid for as aforesaid, as often as any neglect
or default shall take place; provided, that the sureties in any such oﬂicial
bond shall not be charged hereby beyond the penalty of such bond.

III. Dooketing.
Judgment docket
ed In supreme
court.
R. S. 97-i. @ 1.
P. I. l&%, p. 195.

-um, p. 147.

Clerk i0 keep
docket.
B. S. 97-I, 22.
Amended.
Form ofstatement
to be entered in
docket.
1b., 5 3.

Clerks to transmit
copies ofjudgment
to supreme court.
Ib., Q 4.

6. That any ﬁnal judgment oi‘ a circuit court or court of common pleas
may be dockt-ted in the supreme court, by the party recovering the same
or by his executor or administrator.
7.. That the clerk of every circuit court and court of common pleas shall
provide and keep a docket, in which shall be entered, upon the request of

any party thereto, all ﬁnal judgments rendered in either of such courts
for the payment of any debt, damages, costs or other sum of money.
8. That upon such request being made, and on payment of the fees allowed
for docketing such judgment, and for making and sending transcripts of
such docket, as hereinafter directed, the said clerk shall enter in such

docket a statement oi" such judgment, containing: ﬁrst, thc title of the
court. the names at length of all the parties to such judgment, designating
particularly against whom it is rendered, with their places of abode,
description, titles, trades or professions, if any such appear by the record;
second, the style of action, and the amount oi‘ the debt, damages or other
sum of money recovered with the costs; third, the time of signing such
judgment and docketing the same.
9. That the clerk docketing such judgment shall immediately transmit a
certiﬁed transcript thereof, from the docket, to the clerk of the supreme
court, who shall forthwith, on the receipt thereof, and oi‘ the fees for that
purpose hereinafter provided, ﬁle the same and enter such transcript in a
docket, to he by him provided and kept for that purpose, and note therein

the time of receiving and ofenteriug the same.
Dockets I0 be
public records.
11)., I 5.

Operation ofjudg
ments docketed in
the supreme court.
1b., I 6.

No execution out
of court below
after docketing in
nu preme court.
1b., Q 7.

Judgment, how
revived.
Ib., Q 8.

10. That the clerks of the circuit courts, courts of common pleas and the

clerk of the supreme court shall make to their respective dockets a com
plete alphabetical indcx and said dockets shall be public records, to which
all persons desirous of examining the same shall have access.
11. That such judgment shall, from the time of such docketing in the
supreme court. operate as a judgment obtained in the supreme court, and
satisfaction thereof may be entered in the margin of the docket. upon the
same evidence and in the same manner, as is now provided by law in case
ofjjudginents rendered in the supreme court.
2. That after judgment shall be docketed in the supreme court, no
execution shall be issued upon the same, out of the court in which it was
originally obtained; and if any judgment shall be docketed in the supreme
court, after an execution shall have been issued thereon, out of the conrt
from which such judgment was dockcted, then the supreme court may
exercise the same authority and control over such execution as if the same
had issued out of the supreme court.
13. That every judgment docketed as herein directed, may be revived
by scire facias in the supreme court, in the same manner, in the like cases,
and with the like eifect as if such judgment had been obtained in that
court.

Execution to be
stayed in case of
writ of error.
1b., Q 9.

14. That if any judgment recovered in any circuit court or court of com
mon pleas shall be removed by writ of error to the supreme court or court
of errors, and bail in error shall be duly perfected thereon, and such judg
ment shall, either bcfore or after such removal, be docketed as herein pro

Judgment may be
removed to
supreme court.
1b., E 10.

vided, then execution shall be stayed in the supreme court, in the same
manner as in such circuit court or court of common pleas.
15. That a judgment docketed as herein provided, may be removed to
the supreme court by writ of error, in the same manner as if such judg
ment had not been so docketed.

JUDGMENTS.

1843

16. That if any judgment docketed as herein provided, shall be reversed Proceedings in
on writ of error by the court of errors, and a transcript of the judgment of case of reversal.
reversal, duly certiﬁed, shall he delivered to the clerk of the supreme Ib., Q 11.
court, it shall be his duty to ﬁle the same in his oﬂice, and enter in the
margin of the docket, opposite the entry of such judgment, the word
“ reversed,” and the (late of such reversal.
17. That the clerks of the supreme court, circuit courts, and courts of Fee ofclerks
common pleas, shaii be entitled to receive, for docketing anyjudgment, 1b., Q i2.
ﬁity cents; for certiﬁed transcripts of such docket, ﬁfty cents; and for

ﬁling certiﬁcate of reversal, and entering the same in the docket, twelve
cents.

IV. Assignments of, recorded.
18. That the clerk of the supreme court of this state, and the clerks of the
several counties of this state, are hereby authorized and directed to record,
in suitable books to be provided for that purpose, properly indexed, any
assignment of any judgment recovered or docketed in said supreme court,
or ii'i the courts of record of the several counties respectively, the same
being in writing with the execution thereof. proved or acknowledgedas
the execution oi‘ deeds is or shall be required to he Proved to authorize the
same to be recorded; and such recording shall be notice, from the time
such assignment is left for that purpose, to all persons concerned, that said
judgment is so assigned ; provided always, that any sheriff, or other oﬂicer,
who has an execution placed in his hands, upon any judgment by the
owner or owners of such judgment at that time, shall not he liable to the
assignee of such judgment, without actual notice of such assignment, unless
he fail to return such execution to the term to which it is returnable. (a)
19. That the records and certiﬁed copies of such assignment shall be
evidence in the same manner and in like cases as the record of deeds; and
it shall be lawful for the assignee of any judgment so assigned of record, to
receive satisfaction of the same, and to authorize and empower the clerk of

the court in which such judgment was rendered, to enter an acknowledg
ment of satisfaction upon the record of such judgment, or to enter such
satisfaction himself in the same manner as the party in whose favor such
judgment was obtained, or his attorney, might do before this act was

Assignment of
judgments to be

recorded.
P. L. 1871, p. 108.

Record to be
notice.
Sheriff not liable
to assignee with
out aclusi DOUCQ
Of assignment.

Certiﬁed copies to
be evidence.
Ib., Q 2.
Assiguee may
empower salisﬂt

lion to be enters

passed

20. That the clerk of the supreme court, and the clerks of the several
counties, shall he entitled to a fee of ﬁfty cents for recording and indexing
each assignment, and the proof or acknowledgment thereof, under this act.

Fees for recording
assignment.
Ib., g 3.

V. Entry'of satisfaction.
Z1. That it shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court, and of
every circuit court and court of common pleas in this state, in recording
judgments, to leave at the foot or bottom of the record of each and every
judgment, in the hook of judgments, a suﬁicient space for entering satis
faction of said judgment on the record, and that all satisfactions of judg
ments entered, whether by the directions of this act or by the order of the
court, shall he entered at the foot or bottom of the record of such judg
ments, or in the margin thereof, in cases where there is not suﬂicient space
ieit at the foot or bottom of such judgment for entering thereof.
22. That whenever any party, in whose favor a judgment is rendered in
the supreme court. circuit court or court of common pleas in this state,

shall have received satisfaction of such judgment, it shall be the duty of
said party, either by himself or his attorney, (b) forthwith to enter an
acknowledgment oi‘ satisfaction upon the record of said judgment, or in
case the judgment shall not have been made up and recorded, then such
(vi) When ajudg-ment,once paid but not satisﬁed of record,is
lmzned by the Judgment creditor, the assignee lakes it sub ect
lo all defenses and

lniusn the aailgnor.

uiiies which thejudgment debtor

phage» v. Lyons, ii Slew. 613.

ad

Manner of
making entry oi‘.

R. S. 993, Q 1.

Party having
judgment satisﬁed
to enter satisfac
tion.
1b., Q 2.

(la) An acknowledgment of satisfaction by an attorney binds
his client. W3/cojf v. Bergen, (bu 214.

I844

JUDGMENTS.
acknowledgment shall be entered in the minutes of the court where such
judgment shall have been rendered; and it shall thereupon become the

duty of the clerk of such court, as soon as the record of such judgment is
entered in the judgment~book, to make the entry of satisfaction in the
manner prescribed in the foregoing section, and in the following form:
Form of entry.

Warraiit to enter

satisfaction.
Ib., Q 3.

{Form of.

Satisfaction of this judgment has been duly acknowledged by A. B. (or
his attorney, as the case may be), in the minutes of this court, of the term
of, in the year
, agreeably to the act of the legislature in such
case made and provided.
23. That whenever any party shall receive full satisfaction as aforesaid.
it shall be lawful for the said party to sign, seal, and deliver to the party
so making satisfaction as aforesaid, or his attorney. a warrant or authority,
directed to the clcrk of the court wherein such judgment shall be rendered,
to enter satisfaction as aforesaid, which said warrant may be as follows:
To the clerk of the
court of
.
Whereas, I, A. B., heretofore, to wit, in the term of

, obtained

ﬁnal judgment in the
court of
in the state of New Jersey,
against C. D. for
debt, and costs (or for damages and costs,
or for costs, as the case may be), as by the record thereof may appear; and
whereas, I have received satisfaction for the same, these are thereforee to

desire and authorize you to enter an acknowledgment of satisfaction upon
the record of the said judgment, and for your so doing this shall be your
suﬁicient warrant and discharge in that behalf. In witness whereof, I have
hereunto set my hand and atlixed my seal, the
day of
,
eighteen hundred and
.
Sivned
and of
delivered)'
_
Din thesealed
presence
A‘ B‘ [sL‘u"]

->
Ack nowled god or
_ proved.

Form of entry.

Filed.

Attorney of
record may auth
orize clerk to enter
satisfaction.

P. L. ism. p. soc,
It 1. 2
Amended.

Which said warrant or authority, being acknowledged or proved before
anyjudge or other officer having authority to take the acknowledgment
or proof of deeds for tho conveyance of laud in this state, or in case the
party shall reside out of this state, the same being acknowledged or proved
before any judge orjnsticc of any supreme or superior court. or before any
judge of any court of common pleas or master in chanccry of the kingdom,
state, or territory wherein he shall reside, and, after such proof or acknowl
edgment, such warrant or authority being dolivei-ed to the clerk to whom
the same shall be directed, it shall be the duty of the said clerk forthwith
to enter satisfaction on the record of said judgment, as hcreinbcfore directed,
in the words following, or as nearly in conformity thereto as can be con
veniently done :
I, E. F., clerk of the

court of

,in virtue ofa special war

rant of attorney (duly acknowledged or proved, as the case may be) from
A. B. in the foregoing record named, -and to me directed, do hereby
acknowledge that the said A. B. is satisﬁed of the debt and costs (or dam
ages and costs, or costs, as the case may be). Dated this
day
of
,eighteen hundred and
.
E. F., Clerk.
And it shall be the duty of the said clerk forthwith, after entering said
satisfaction, to ﬁle the said warrant or authority, with the declaration, plead
ings, and other papers in the cause in which said judgment shall have been
obtained.

24. That it shall be lawful for the attorney upon the record of said judg
ment to authorize and empower the clerk of the court in which said_judg
mcnt was rendered to outer an acknowledgment of satisfaction upon the
record of said judgment by an instrument in writing of the same general
form and effect as that mentioned and described in the last preceding
section; and when such attorney upon the record shall have delivered to
said clerk a power of attorney, duly executed by him, and acknowledged
or proved, of the same tenor and effect as that mentioned in the preceding
section, the said clerk shall forthwith enter satisfaction of said judgment in
pursuance thereof, and in conformity, as nearly as may be, to the direc
tions in cases wherein said power of attorney may have been executed by
the party in whose favor the judgment was rendered, and the same fees
shall be charged for such services as in other cases.

1845

J UDG)-IENTS.

25. That the last preceding section shall apply to the satisfaction of

Preceding section

record of claims of mechanics‘ liens, if there be an attorney of record of extended to

the same, and of any judgment entered thereon, and also, to the satisfac
tion of decrees in the court of chancery if there be a solicitor of the com
plainant of record.
<
26. That the judge or other oﬂicer who shall take the acknowledgment
or proof of any warrant or authority to enter satisfaction on the record as

mechanics‘ liens
and decrees in
chancery.

P. 1.. 1s'.'s, p. 49.
Fees for services.
R. S. 998, 2 5.

aforesaid, shall be entitled to receive twenty-ﬁve cents, and no more, for

each acknowledgment or proof taken or had before him; and
for entering satisfaction on the record, and ﬁling the warrant or
for so doing, shall be entitled to 1'eeeive the sum of twenty-ﬁ\'e
no more.
27. That in case any party, having received full satisfaction for

the clerk
authority
cents and
any judg

ment obtained in either of the courts aforesaid, shall refuse or neglect, when
requested, to enter satisfaction as aforesaid, or to sign, seal, and deliver a

Court may order
satisfaction
entered.
1b., I 4.

warrant, duly acknowledged as aforesaid, to enter satisfaction as aforesaid,
the party so making satisfaction may, on due notice given, apply to the
court to have satisfaction entered as aforesaid, and the said court may
order the same to be done, and that the party so having received satis
faction shall pay the cost of the said application, which costs may be
recovered by a writ of ﬁeri facias or capias ad satisfaciendum. (a)
28. That when the original parties to the action or either of them are dead,

before satisfaction is entered on the record, the preceding provisions and
the like remedy shall afpply as between the survivor or survivors or the
lawful representatives of any deceased party and a surviving party; and

Satisfaction may
be entered by

survivor.
Ib., Q 8.

the warrant to the clerk mentioned in the twenty-third section of this act,

and other proceedings under the same, shall be in the same form, as near
as may be, as is required in the case of the original parties to the suit.
29. That nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent any
party, making satisfaction as aforesaid, i'rom proceeding, according to the
course of the respective courts, to enforce the entering satisfaction on the
record of judgments as heretofore, nor to deprive any attorney-at-law from
any lien which he may have on any judgment for his costs.

Parties may pro

eeed before court
to have satisfac
tion entered.

1b., 4 1.

Supplement.
Approved April 13, 1576.

P. L. 1876. p. 124.

30. -"so. l. [.-tinended by Sec. 3l,p0sz‘.]

An act to amend an act entitled “ A supplement to an act entitled ‘ An
act concerning judgments,’ approved March twenty-seventh, one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-four," which supplement was

approved April thirteenth, one thousand eight hundred and sev
enty—six.
Approved February 18, I881.

P. n. i881. p.37.

31. Ssc. l. That section one of an act entitled “ A supplement to an act
entitled ‘ An act concerning judgments,’ approved March twenty-seventh,
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four ” he amended so as to read
.as follows :

[That in any action brought or to be brought in the supreme court, or
court of chancery, or any circuit court, or court of common pleas in this
state. wherein judgment shall have been or may hereafter be recovered, or
the decree of said court of chancery is or may hereafter be entered in the
supreme court of this state against two or more defendants thereto, and

the party in whose favor said judgment is rendered or decree entered shall
have received satisfaction thereof from any defendant or defendants less

When Judgment
is recovered
against two or
more defendants,
satisfaction may
he entered as to
defendants satis
fyi ng same.

than the whole number of defendants, it shall and may be lawful for the
person so receiving satisfaction, either by l_1irnself or his attorney, to enter
la) The court wiii not order entry of satisfaction to be made
nnles the pmof of payment is satisfactory.

Haul.-inmn v.

H""""¢1'. 7 Hal. 6-i. Deurwm-e and I/zckawnnnn R. R. On. v.
31419‘. 4 Dulch. 139.

See Onultcr v. Kalphn, 1 Vr. 98.

Whoever

has been made a party must have n-our» of the application.
Howard v. Iimlunlxn, Ci).r:r: 132. See lVr1(l1l!P v. Day/Ion, 3 Hal.
17-I.

1846

JURIES.

Not to operate as

a discharge of
other defendants.

Proviso.

Proviso.

an acknowledgment of satisfaction as to said defendant or defendants, from
whom satisfaction thereof shall have been received, upon the record of said
judgment or decree, or in case the judgment or decree shall not have been
made up and recorded, then such satisfaction may be entered in the minutes
of the court where such judgment or decree shall have been rendered or
entered, and such acknowledgment of satisfaction heretofore or hereafter
entered shall not operate as a release or discharge oi‘ said judgment or
decree as to any defendant liable thereon primarily to or equally with the
defendant or defendants as to whom such acknowledgment of satisfaction
shall have been entered, but may be assigned to such defendant or defend
ants as have satisﬁed the same, and he or they shall have full control of
said judgment or decree, and may issue execution thereon against such
defendant or defendants as to whom there has been no satisfaction entered
the same as if there had been no payment whatever, and no satisfaction
had been entered; provided, that such defendant or defendants shall only
recover on such execution the proportional share of said judgment or
decree for which the defendants as to whom such satisfaction has not been
entered were originally liable; and p1'ov1'dwlfm-liter,that previous to issuing
said execution the amount for which it shall issue shall have been fixed by
the chancellor or a judge of the court out of which said execution shall be
issued upon application of the party desiring to issue the same, made upon
two days’ notice to the person or persons against whom it is intended said
execution shall issue]
‘

A supplement to an act entitled “An act concerning judgments," ap
proved March twenty-seventh, one thousand eight hundred and
seventy-four.
Approved April ll. 1587.

P L. 1887, p. 181.
Clerk oi court to
enter sntlalaction
upon record of
judgments or de
crees when execu

tion is returned
satisﬁed.

32. SEC. 1. That whenever any execution issued on any judgment or
decree which may be a lien on real estate shall have been returned to the
court out of which such execution issued by the sheriff of any county to
whom such execution was directed, fully paid and satisiied, it shall be the
duty of the clerk of the court out of-which such execution issued and in
whose oﬁice the same is on ﬁle, to enter an acknowledgment of satisfac
tion upon the record of any such judgment or decree, on the request of any
party who shall produce to the said clerk proof that he is interested in any
real estate which might be affected by any such judgment or decree, for
which the clerk shall be entitled to receive twenty-ﬁve cents, to be paid by
the party making such request.

Juries.
II. STRUCK JCRH-L\'.

Process forjury.
'1‘o what county awarded.
Fees ofjurors.

33.3
E55
Not discharged except by court.
Amended by section 46.

Struck juries in civil and criminal cases.
After rule for struck jury, cause not lo be tried by common
jury.

Plaintiff to have preference on motion for.
Amended by section 47.
Thirty days‘ notice of trial, lfdefendant has rule for struck
Amended by section 48.
jury.
Panel to be delivered to plainllﬂ twelve days before triaL

Amended by section 49.
Penalty for non-attendance.
Fines, how collected.

If cause not tried, new jury to be struck.
Amended by section 62.

2-°:=.°~'?=.°‘:'-.= !°.-' Vacancy in gr-andjury supplied.
Court orjudge may order struck Jury.

n->-> 9... Foreman of grand jury to swear witnesses and certify list of.

\\'ho to pay fees for striking.

I. OF THE GENERAL PANEL.
III. IMPA.\'ELI.\'G JURI I-‘.5.
13.
.
15.
I6,

Amended by section 50.
Amended by section 5|.
Lint ofjuror-4 to he laid before the court.
How general panel reduced.
How venlre shall be executed by coroner: and elisors.

‘Z7 . Hnwjury selected front general panel. Tales and challenges.
. How venlre returned.
. .\‘nme.-a replaced in box.

S85

ilow jury selected from struck jury.

J URI ES.
IV. JURY 01-‘ VIEW.

1847

55. Repealer.

3t. Jury of view. process for.

56. Who to select and draw juries when none have been selected
as provided by law

3;. \ lew by stmck jury.
33' Tm‘ w proceed‘ though no “e“ Ind‘

57. When lawful for justice ot’ supreme court to direct what
notice shall be given to jurors to attend, dzc.

$4. Expenses of view, &c.
3i Court may order view during trial ofauy cause.

58 Repeal"
59: Compensation of grand jumm
60. Defendants in all criminal cases entitled to at least ten per

‘-182 . Supreme court may order.

61' R‘-‘p‘l"‘l9r'

_ pnmign Juries in crimhml msem

35. How venire directed and juries selected.

62. Proceedings on order for struck jury.

63' 5"perS"d°d by section 60'
64. Peremptory challenges allowed prosecutor.

vI_ CHALLENG Ea

65. Mileage to be paid petit jurors in addition to per diem.
66. Manner ofestimatlng distances.

39- Interest 8-' iﬂ--‘KDﬂ)'@l‘ not a ground of challeusa

ar. Book of record and receipt kept by county clerk.

40. Pen-tnptory challenges, how many.
41. Peremptory challenges by state.

68. Repealer.

42. Peremptory challenges on trial by a struckjury.

1X_ M[,<CELLAgEQUg Ag-.Tg_

43- Challenges tried by court.
69. Physicians exempt from jury duty.

‘-IL EXEMP-MOSS FROM JURY DL.TY_
_

7 . Members ofdiire department serving seven years exempt
rotn jury

*4‘ same’ ofexempt ﬁremen to be med m clerk's Mace‘
4& t‘lerk to keep register of names.

uty.

71. Board of chosen freeholders to fix salary oi‘ clerk of grand
Ju,.y_

VIII. SUPPLEMENTS.
46. Ofiicer not to take reward for excusing juror, nor summon
any person applying.

72. Salary of clerks of grand juries in
m0,.e_

counties of 100.000 or

7 . Repeater.
7 . Salary in counties of 75,000 and less than 100,000.

47. Qualiﬁcation ofjurors.

75. Itepealer.

46. iiheriffs to procure lists of persons qualiﬁed asjurors.

7 . Clerk of grand jury to act as clerk to the prosecutor of the

-I9. Jurors, how summoned.
-50. How general panel ofjurors selected.
51. In case of death ofclerk, judge of pleas to act.

pleas in certain counties.
77. Repealer.
78. Clerk ofgrand jury, how appointed and term of oﬂice.

51 Repealer.
-3. Circuit courts may order trials by foreign juries.

7 . When court of oyer and termlner may appoint clerk of
grand jury.

54. When challenges tojurors shall be made.

80. How salary paid.

It. s. 196. 965.

An act concerning juries.
Revislon—Approved March 27, 1874.

1. That the process for summoning a jury shall he by venire facias, issued
out of the court in which the cause shall be triafile, except in issues joined

P. L.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

1849, p. 1-:9.
1851, p. 92.
1852, p. 32.
1857, p. 242.
I861, p. 390.
1867, p. S33.
1869. p. 6l9.
l87i,p. 111.

Process for jury.

in the supretne court or removed there for trial, in which cases the venire

shall be issued out of the supreme court, directed to the slit-rid‘ of the
county in which the circuit court in which such issue is triable is to be

R. S. 196, Q 9.
Amended.

held, and shall be returned to such circuit court to be there filed.

Z. That every venire for the trial of any issue shall be awarded to the county
in which such issue is triable, except where a foreign jury shall have been
ordered.
3. That every person summoned as a petit juror in the supreme court, the
circuit courts, the courts of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery,
common pleas and of general quarter sessions of the peace, shall receive
the sum of two dollars for every day’s attendance at such courts, to he
paid at the expiration of each term of service, by the sheriti" of the county
in which the juror shall serve.
4. That no person summoned as a juror shall be discharged from
attendance except by order of the court in which his attendance may be
required.
5. Amended by Sec. 46, post.

To what county
awarded.

R. S. 965. Q 1.
Fees of jurors.

Ib., Q 80.
P. L. 1867, p. 833.

Not discharged
except by court.
R. S. 966, Q 32.

6. Amended by Sec. 47, post.
7. Amended by Sec. 48, post.
8. [Amended by Sec. 49, postg
9. That every person summoned as a grand or petit juror and failing to
attend without reasonable excuse, shall be ﬁned by the court in any sum
not exceeding twenty dollars, to the use oi‘ the county where such offense
was committed ; and may be punished as for contempt of court. (a)

Penalty for non
attendance.
Ib., M 6, 8.
Amended.

(0) In the justice’s court, the only penalty laid upon a defaulting juror is a tine. Rhine-‘hart v. Lana-e, 14 Vr. 318.

JURIES.

lS48
I-‘Ines. how
collected.
Ih., Q 9.

10. That the clerk of the court shall deliver a certiﬁed list“ of the names
of all defaulting jurors, specifying the ﬁne awarded against each of them,
to the sheriil" of the coilnty, who shall, by himself or his deputy. either
personally of in writing, give notice to each defaulting juror of the ﬁne so
awarded against him,at least six days before the ncxt term of the said
court; which notice, if in writing, shall be signed by the said shcritf or
his deputy, and left at the dwelling-house of the said juror; and if such
ﬁne shall not be paid to the said shei-iﬂ' by the second day of the next term
as aforesaid, or be then i-einittcd by the court, the said court shall issue

Vacancy in grand
jury supplied.

process directed to the slieriii, commanding him to levy and make the said
ﬁne, with costs, by distress and sale of so inucii of the goods and chattels
of such defaulting juror as shall be sullicient to satisfy the same; and the
sheriff for every such notice shall be allowed one dollar, to be paid by the
juror so making default, provided he shall have been summoned as such
agreeably to law.
1].. That in case of the sickness, death, or iion-atteiidance of any grand
juror after he shall he sworn or affirmed_ the court in its discretion, may
cause another grand juror to be sworn or aiiirincd in his stead.

Foreman of grand
jury to swear
witnesses and

certify iisi of.
1b., 4 :5.

12. That the foreman of the grand jury shall, from the time of his ap
poiiitinent until his discharge, have power to administer the usual oath or
aiiirination to such witnesses as shall give evidence before the grand jury
whereof he is foreman; and it shall be the duty of such foreman, before

he be discharged. to certify to the court, under his hand, the names of such
witnesses as shall have been by him so sworn or aliirmed.

I. Of the general panel.
13. FAmended by Sec. 50, pas-1.]
14. Amended by Sec. 51. post]
List to be laid
before court.
R. S. 985, M 2|, 22.
Amended.

15. That the sheriff shall, as soon as may he after the commencement of
the term of each of the said courts, dclircr a list of the jurors by him suin
nioiied for service at such term, certiﬁed by him to be a true list, to the
clerk of such court, who shall thereupon ﬁle the said list.and forthwith

lay the same before the said court; and no person shall serve as ajui-or
whose name is not contained on said list, if the objection be made before
such person is sworn or ailiriucd as a juror, unless when a tales dc cir
cumstantibus is ordered. or an order has been made for a special venire
No other person to
serve, except, &c.

fof a jury of view or for a struck jury ; provided, 1ievc1'(/lcless, that if ~on a

challenge to the array or for other good cause, the whole panel ofjurors
returned for the term shall be set aside. the court may order the sliei-iii‘ or
other proper oﬁicer forthwith to retnrii a competent number of _llll'()i'S to

How geiieralpanel
reduced.
Ib., E 28.

Amended.

serve for the term, to be by him selected in the manner prescribed by the
thirteenth section of this act.
16. That if at any time the number of jurors in attendance at any court
shall be greater than is necessar_v for the business of the court, the court
may discharge a speciﬁc number of such jurors from furtiier attendance at
that term; in which case the clerk or sheriﬁ', or some person under the

Proviso.

direction of the court, shall in open court draw from the said box such
number of the papers therein contained as the court shall direct: and the
jurors whose names shall be found written thereon shall be discharged
from further attendance at that time; providt-(I,ll0wvvi'1',tliat nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any court from ext-using or
discharging individual jurors for snflicicnt reason. (a)

How venire in
particiiinr cases

shall he executed
hr corom-rs and
eiisors.
Ih., Q ‘JT.

17. That nothing in the four preceding sections shall apply to eascsiii
which any writ of vcnirc facias shall be directed to the coroners. or to
elisors, for the trial of any particular cause; in which case such writ shall
be executed, and the jur_v thereby required shall be summoned by such

(II) The Jury for the trial of an appml must he drawn from

he excused, reduce the panel heiow the number required for-the

the general panel, as in other cases, and n IllSt‘liX\l',1_"P4ii' all the
Paler
slm ('}1|.sli'gh! (‘(1. V. Hrlnii/, 3 Dii/rh. ‘Z45. 249. If the court. by a

trial ofa cause. it is good ground for a challenge to the array;

Jurors from two townsiiips, vvithoiit drawing. is iiietrai.

hut ifthere is no cimlienge to the array, and the court order n
mm. although such order is excepted to, their verdict is good

general order to the clerk to discharge such Jurors as desire to

Suiith v. Clayton, 5 Dutch. 357.

JURIES.

;

1849

coroners or elisors in the same manner as by law was required to be done
in such cases before the ninth day of March, one thousand eight hundred
and thirty-six. (a)

II. Struck juries.
18. That the supreme court-, the circuit courts, the courts of common
pleas, court of oyer and terminer and general jail delivery, and the courts
of general quarter sessions of the peace, respectively, may on motion in
behalf of the state, or of any prosecutor or defendant in any indictment or
information in the nature of a quo warranto, or on motion in behalf of the
state, or of any plaintifff or defendant, in any action triable by a jury, order
ajury to be struck for the trial thereof; provided, that no order for a struck
jur_v shall be made in any civil action unless the court orjudge to whom

Struck Juries in
civil and criminal
CIISQS.

Ih., Q; 15, id.
P. L. 18-5i". p. 92.

In civil actions
aiﬂdavlt required.

the application is made shall be satisﬁed, by affidavit, that the nature and

importance of the matter or matters in controversy, in such suit or action,
render it reasonable and proper that said order be made. (b)
19. That if a rule for a struck jur_y shall be entered in any cause, it shall
remain in force until the cause shall be tried, and no common jury shall be
summoned therein, unless the said rule shall be ﬁrst vacated by the court,
except as is hereinafter provided.
20. That in motions for a struck jury, the plaintifff shall have the pre

ference; and the defendant shall not apply for a struck jury without two
clays’ notice to the plaintifff, unless he shall have a rule for trial by proviso.
and then he shall have the preference; and in that case the plaintifff shall
not apply for a struck jury without two days’ notice to the defendant ; and
there shall not be two such rules existing in the same cause at the same

Aner rule for
struck jury cause
not to be tried by
common jury,
unless, rte.
Plaintiff to have
preference on
motion for.

time.(0)

21. That where the defendant has a rule for a struck jury, or has a
rule for trial by proviso, and the plaintifff has a rule i'or a struckjury, in
order to give reasonable time to strike the same according to law, there
shall be thirty days’ notice of trial; but the party having such rule may,
at any time, before notice of trial, procure such jury to he struck at his
peril. giving to the adverse party the lawful notice thereof.
22. That where the defendant shall have a rule for a struck jury
and shall not procure such jury to he struck, and the panel thereof duly
eertiﬁe(l to be delivered to the plaintifff or his attorney, twelve days at
least before the day appointed for trial. the plaintifff may issue his venire
foracommon jury; and if the defendant shall have a rule for trial by

Thirty days’

notice oftrinl if
defendant has
rule for struck
jury.

Panel I0 be deliv
ered lo piainliﬂ‘
twelve days before
trial if defendant
obtain struck jury.
Amended.

proviso, and the plaintifffa rule for a struck jury, then if the plaintifff shall

not procure such jury to be struck and the panel thereof to he delivered to
the defendant as aforesaid, the defendant may issue his venire for a com
mon jur_v.

23. That if the cause wherein any jury shall be struck shall not be
brought to trial at the next term of the court after the said striking, the
jury so struck shall not be summoned or returned, but a new jury shall
be struck.

If cause not tried
at next term new
jury to be struck.

24. l'.-tmendcd by Sec. 62, posh]
25. That the order i'or a struck jury for the trial of any civil cause may
he made by the court or any judge thereof, and the court or judge, in
their or his discretion, may order that the list of names from which such

Court or Judge
may order list to
contain thirty-six
names.

jury shall be struck shall contain the names of thirty-six persons, instead

0fi'0ri_v-eight, and in such case the parties shall be entitled. respectively,
to strike the names of nine persons from said list, and the remaining eigh
teen shall be returned as the list of persons from whom the jury shall be
selected to try the cause.

Nine to be struck
by each party.

"'1. if there is an objection tolhe sheriff, the common pleas
can order the coroner to return ajury to try an appeal. Dr Wu

juries before different judges, the plulntiifhnd the preference.

V. Irrkrr. 4 Hal, HR,

Ilnm v. Tirhm. (lore 164.

(bl Q11"!/—\Vhelherltls any cause ofchallenze to ajudge on
Hfillsahe jury was struck before him. Btl-8-!l‘ll v. Johnson,

have a rule by proviso, when two days’ notice is requisite. Fut

Jr.

,

(r) Where there were two rules (before the stature) to strike
\\"her¢-. the pIalnnﬂ'now applies. no

notice thereof need he given to the defeudanminless the latter
ier ads. D171, Saxlon, Span. 61.

§»"\._______/'

1850
Who to pay fees
for striking.
B. S.
Q la.

JURIES.
26. That the party applying for such struck jury shall pay the fees for
striking the same, and shall not have any allowance therefore upon the
taxation of costs. (0) (1)
III. Impaneling jury.

How jury selected

from general
panel.

B. s. ass, gt 2.1, 3|.

Z7. That the name of each person who shall be summoned and returned
by any sheriff or coroners as petit jurors in any of the aforesaid courts,
shall be written or printed on separate pieces of paper, of the same
size, color and shape, as nearly as may be; which pieces of paper shall be
severally rolled up by the sheriff, coroners or clerk, or by some person
employed by him for that purpose, and put intoa box; and whenever for
the trial of a cause, civil or criminal, a jury shall be required, the said box
shall be shaken so as to intermix the said papers; and thereupon the
sheriﬁ' or clerk, or some other person, by the direction of the court, publicly
and in open court, shall draw such papers from the said box, one at a
time, until twelve persons, whose names are found written thereon, shall

Tales, when
awarded.

Talesmen liable
to challenge as

principal ju roru

appear; and if any of the twelve persons so appearing shall be successl'ully
challenged or be excused from serving on that jury, the said drawing shall
be continued until twelve persons not thus challenged or excused shall
appear; and such twelve being severally sworn or aﬂirmed, shall consti~
tute a jury for the trial of the said cause; and if by reason of challenges,
or the default of jurors or otherwise, a suﬂicient number cannot be had of
the jurors on the original panel to try the issue or cause, then either party
may pray for, and the court shall award a tales de circumstantibus;(b)
whereupon the sheriﬁ‘ or other proper oﬁlcer shall summon such number
of talesmen as may be necessary’ to complete the said jury, and make
return thereof immediately; which talesmen shall be liable to the same
challenges as the principal jurors; and if any talesman, when present, be
called and shall not appear, or it he appear, shall willfully withdraw from
the court, then the said court may set a reasonable ﬁne upon him, to be
levied and madc by distress and sale, in the manner prescribed by this act.

[Sec CRIMINAL Paool-:DL'u1:, Sec. '12, for mode of selecting jury, when
How venlre
returned.
1b., § 25

Names replaced
in box.
Ib., Q '16.

How Ju ry selected

from slruck Jury.

the defendant is entitled to twenty peremptory challenges]
28. That after the jury shall he selected and sworn or affirmed as afore
said, the sheriff or other proper officer shall annex their

names

to

the

venire in the cause, and return the same as the panel of jurors summoned
therein; but the trial of the cause may forthwith proceed in the same
manner as if such return had already been made.
29. That after ajury shall have been empaneled and sworn or aﬂirmed
for the trial ofany cause, the clerk, sheriﬂ or other proper oﬂicer shall,
before auotherjury shall be drawn, replace in the said box all the papers
which may have been drawn therefrom, except those containing the name
of the jurors so impaueled and sworn or affirmed; but as soon as they
shall have rendered a verdict, or be discharged therefrom by the court,
their names shall also be replaced in the said box.
30. That whenever a struck jury shall have been returned for the trial
of any cause, civil or criminal, ajury for the trial of such cause shall be

P. L. 1384, p. 390.

selected from the persons whose names have been certiﬁed by the judge
as the list ofjurors. in the same manner, as near as may be, as is provided
for the selection ofa jury from the general panel.
(0) '1‘he court may award a tales, though the jury be special

tn) The costs must he paid by the party applylng for the_lury.
Dru v. Shymr. 1 Smuh. "360. Even where the trial ls put oﬂ‘ by
the defendant. Kunmly v. Nla.-mi, 1 Hal. H59. But not the oosu

and summoned from a remote county. Den, Lee v. Emul, (bx:

where the trlnl goes off on account nfa mistake ofthe Judge or

231.

283. Tlule-1 awarded in a ¢'rim|inal case. Slate v. Aaron, l Soulla.

sherltf ln nmklng out the panel. Gibbons ads. 0gden,2 .Hat.1'IL
(l) For mode ofslriklng and expenses ofa struck jury In the county of Essex. gee P. L. I865, p. 588.

JYRIES.

1851

IV. Jury of view.
31. That in actions in the supreme court, or any circuit court, or court

of common pleas, where it shall be proper or necessary that the jurors who
are to try the issue should view the messuagcs, lands, or place in question,
in order to their better understanding the evidence that will be given on
the trial, the court, or a judge thereof, may order a special writ of venirc
facias to issue, by which the sheriff, or other oﬂicer to whom the same

Jury of view,
process for.
R. S. 965. Q i2.
Amended.

shall be directed, shall he commanded to have six or more of the ﬁrst

twelve of the jurors, named in the panel to such writ annexed, at the place
in question, at a day therein named, prior to the ﬁrst day of the court.

who then and there shall have the matters in question shown to them by
two persons in the said writ named, to be appointed by the court, or judge ;
and the sheriff or other oiﬁcer who is to execute the said writ, shall, by a
special return on the same. certify under his hand that the view hath been
had according to the command of the said writ. (a)
32. That whenever a jury shall be struck for the trial of a civil cause,
the court or judge by whom the order for a struck jury was made, may
direct that a view be had of the lands or place in question; in which case
the venire shall contain a clause oi’ view, and the oﬂicer summoning such
jury shall have twelve or more of the persons named in the list certiﬁed
by the judge before whom such jury is struclc, at said view, and the view
shall in all respects be conducted as in case ofan ordinary jury of view.

33. That when a view shall have been ordered under either of the last
two preceding sections, the trial shall proceed notwithstanding no view
shall be had; and no objection shall be made by either side for want of a
view, or that a view was not had by any particular number of jurors named
in the venirc, or for want ofa proper return to the writ.
34. That when a view shall be ordered, the expenses thereof shall be
equally borne by both parties. and no evidence shall he given on either
side at the time of taking thereof. (b)
35. 'l'hat the court in which any cause of a criminal or civil nature is
pending, may at any time after thejury for the trial of the same is drawn,
or at any time during the trial, order that the jury empaneled for the
trial thereof shall view any lands or place, if in the judgment of the court
such view is necessary to enable the jury better to understand the evidence
given in the cause, and such view shall thereupon be had in such manner
as the court shall direct.
i

View by st ruck
jury.

Twelve Jurors to
attend.
P. L. 186-i, p. 396.

Trial to proceed
though no view
had.
B. S. 965, Q 12

Expenses of view,
ac.
1b., Q i3.
Court may order
view during lrlal
oi‘ any cause,
civil or criminal.
How conducted.

V. Foreign jury.

36. That the supreme court may, in its discretion, order trials by foreign

Supreme court

order.
juries in all cases, civil or criminal, which may have been commenced in ms
R. . nan, Q6.

that court, or may be removed to that court from any other court.
37. That the supreme court. whenever in their opinion a fair _and im
partial trial cannot be had bel'ore a jury of the proper county, may upon
motion in behalf of the state, or on the part of any defendant or prisoner,
0|'der any indictment, found at any court of oyer and terminer and general
jail delivery, or at any court of general quarter sessions of the peace, to he
tried by a foreign jury in the court and county in which such indictment
was found.
38. That whenever a foreign jury shall be ordered. the order for a jury
shall specify the number ofjurors to be returned, and the venirc shall be
directed to the shcritf of the county i'rom which such jury shall be taken,

Amended.
Foreign Juries in

criminal cases.
1b., Q 16.
Amended.

How venire
directed and
jurors selected.

and shall be returnable to the circuit court in which the issue is triable;
(mi When a rule for a jury of view is once entered. it eon
iinues in force until the cause ls tried. or the rule discharged.
Hmutom ads. "'00dwnr1I, 2 Hur. 344. if the shewers have been
obstructed, there may he a special rule for the posse omnltntiu.

Den, Qnyder v. Van Nana, 2 Hal. 25.

But it will not ordinarily

be granted or on mere apprehension ofinterferenee. Den v.
IVOodward, 1 South. 122. Qwrg/—Whether the sheriff can rake
the Jury over adjoining land not in dispute. lb.

(b) Den, .mzm- v. Reed, 1 South. 350.

1852
E-wetiseof~um?::::f"““s‘Lch
,u,H,,,,gor,hel,
ullendniice.

JURIES.
the jurors shall be selected in the same maiiner as the general panel of
jurors is selected, and shall be such as are competent jurors for the county
from which they are taken; and the expense of summoning and returning
such jurors, and of their attendance at the court, shall be paid by the
county within which such court shall be held.

VI. Challenges.
Im@r~*-lMHu=;"r‘::I2';‘;‘c‘;al

39. That it shall not he a ground of exception or challenge to the
array or to the polls, in any action wherein the board of chosen l'i'eeholders

1,,m,_
P.l.. 15-l9,p.129.

of any county, or the iiiliabitauts of any township or city, ai'e or may he
parties to the record, or otherwise interested, that the sheritl', constables

or jurors are iiihabitauts of the county, township, or city, interested in such
action, or liable to be taxed therein.

P@\‘9|lll"0l')'
40. That upon the trial 01' any issue in any civil suit or action in any
ll u
l I'll touit
_ . of- this
- state,
,
, pait_\
. . shall he entitled
.
_- .
:“:Ke‘;“a‘:’:b';°‘
each
to challenge peicniptoiilj,
(,er,.m,,,,,ls,,,,

as their names are drawn from the box. three of the general panel of

indlclmeiiis.

jurors siiinnioncd and returned by the shcri'ﬂ' 01' other oﬂiccr; and upon
Ii. S. 90-5. I 24.
the trial of anr indictment where tweiitv peremptory challenges are not
P. LA istio, p. 619.
"
allowed, the del'endant or defendants shall
he entitled to clialleiige per
einptorily, as their names are drawn from the box, three of the general
panel of jurors summoned and returned by the sheritl" or other officer.(a)
[See ('ltli\ll.\'.»\L PR()CEDL'RlI-I, Sec. 71.]
Perempwrr
41. That upon the trial of any iiidictmeiit, the attoriie_\'-geiieral or
::::lel°“"°”""m° proscciitor of the pleas of the state shall be entitled to challenge per
p_ L_',m_p_ai_._
Amended.

einptorily three of the panel of j iirors siininioned and returned for the trial
thereof"; and upon the trial of any indictinent in cases where the (lefeiidaiit

is entitled to twenty pereinptory challenges, the attorney-general or prose
cutor of the pleas shall be entitled to (.'ll:lll0ll_!_!"0 pei'einptorily, and without
assigning any cause, ten of the jurors rcturiied for the trial ol' such indict
inent. (Ii)

_
;(‘_','§{‘,’,l‘|,l“,‘,",.-f".'

42. That upon the trial of any civil cause or indictment, for which a

ﬂ_'**l‘_l*‘l't'§‘l‘-"-P m
' ' '
¢"*"l@"K°§"'°*l

struck jury shall be suninioned and returned, three peremptory challenges
shall be allowed, as in other cases.
43. That all challenges to the arra_\' or to intliridual jurors, for any

b"°"""'

cause whatever, shall he triable hy the court. (0)

VII. Exemptions from jury duty.
N‘""°§°r°X9ml1l

44. That no tii'enieii shall be entitled to claim exeniption from jury

i':l':]“e';:s“;ﬁ_:"°‘l duty in any of the courts of this state. except courts for the trial of small;
p_[._1357’p_2_é_

causes. unless he shall give eriilciicc of his enrollment in a ﬁre company,.

in addition to the requirements of cxistiiig laws, by ﬁling his nanie in the
office of the clerk of the county in which he resides, with

the title and

locatioi!
of said
coiiipaiiy,
leasthisthirty
days before the eoinmenceinent
of
the terin
at \\'lll('ll
he mayat offer
excuse.
l
Clerk tokeep
:";‘:“‘°"°'"“““*5
’ mnm

45. That the clerk of each county shall provide, at the expense of the
county, a suitable book, which shall be entitled the “ﬁrc-men's register,”
in which he shall arrange in alphabetical order the names thus filed in his
oﬂice, the date of ﬁling, and the iiainc of the company to which each person
belongs, and also the time when he ceased to be such exempt ﬁreniaii,
which inf'orniation Slinll be l'urnislied annually on the ﬁrst day of Jaiiuar_\',

by the chief oﬂiccr oi‘ each coinpany, li_\' his sendin_<_r to the clerk a certiﬁed
list of those whose names have been taken oil during the year; said hook
to he open for inspection without cliar;;c, for which services the clerk per~
(rii See _1ln.w-hvll v. sum. 2-I l'r. 408.
"II 5*-‘P '1"!/~' \'- -57"!/P. 4 Zub. R43.
l/‘i It ls not good cause for chnlleiitze to the nrrny that one of
the jurors at ruck for the trial \\‘i\."l Ill-:lUl, aiiothvrnn e.“-inpt tireman and another not regularly suuiiiioiied. 5',/iilh v. .5‘/nirh, '23

l'r. ‘.207. A clinllentze to the army will not be siistnliied foniided
on the fact that in nu-ikliig up iliejiiry-llst he-fore the pleas the
ue~~i~4tniit c|erk,uiit1 nut the clerk, who was sick. oﬂlelaled; for
such function the 8liSl§U\Hl has full eoinpeteiicy. -S‘hplun.v v.
.5‘/rm, 2-I l'r. '24-3. See _'l[n.vrh1ll v. .s'm1¢-, ‘J4 l'r. 511.

1853

JURIES.
forming the same shall be entitled to demand and receive twenty-ﬁve cents
from the person ﬁling his name, before the same shall be marked ﬁled or
registered.
[Militia exempt. See title National Guard, P. L. 1869, p. 274, § 72.]
[Oilicers, attendants and assistants of the New Jersey State Hospitals
exempt. See title Lunatic Asylums, P. L. 1893, p. 212, § 18.]
[Telegraph operators exempt. See title Telegraph, Telephone and Elec
tric Light Companies, P. L. 1862, p. 69]
[See Secs. 69 and T0, pas-1.]
VIII. Supplements.
Supplement.
Approved April 21, 1876.

P. L. 1876. p. seo.

46. SEC. 1. That the ﬁfth section of the act to which this isa supple
ment, which is in the following words, viz. [see P. L. 1876, p. 360], he
and the same is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
[That no sheriff, coroner or other otﬁcer, or any deputy of any sheriff,
coroner or other oﬂicer, shall, directly or indirectly take, accept or 1'eceive
any money or other reward or thing to summon or return, or to excuse
any person i'rom being sunnnoned or returned, or from serving on any
jury or inquest; and no slieritf, coroner or other oiiicer shall summon or
rcturn any person who may have applied to him to be summoned or

Oﬂlcer not lo i|\k9
reward for excus
ing juror.

Nor to summon
any person who

has applied.

returned as a juror, on pain of i'ori'eiting one hundred and ﬁfty dollars for
every such oifense, the one moiety to go to the state, and the other moiety
to any person who shall prosecute for the same, to be recovered with costs,

by action of debt in any court of record having cognizance of that sum.]
47. SEO. 2. That the sixth Section of the act to which this is a supple
mcnt which reads as follows [see I’. L. 1876, p. 360], be and the same
is hereby amended so as to read as follows;
[That every person summoned as a grand juror in any court of this
state, and every petit juror returned for the trial of any action or suit
oi" a civil or criminal nature, shall be a citizen of this state and resident
within the county from which he shall he taken, and above the age oi"

Qualiﬁcation of
Jurors.

twenty-one.and under the age of sixty-live years; and if any person, who
is not so qualiﬁed, shall be summoned as a grand juror, or as a juror on the
trial of any such action in any of the courts of this stale, or if any person
shall be summoned as a petit juror at any stated term of any court of this
state, who has served as such at any of the three stated terms next
preceding that to which he may he sunnnoned, it shall be good cause
of challenge to any such juror, who shall be discharged upon such clini
lenge being veriﬁed according to law. or on his own oath or ailirmation in
suppoi-_t thereof; provided, that no exception to any such juror on account
of his citizenship, or age, or any other legal disability, shall be allowed

Proviso.

after he has been sworn or atl‘irmed.] (a)

48. SEC. 3. That the seventh section of the act to which this is a sup
plement, which is in the following words, viz. [see I’. L. i876, p. 360], he
and the same is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
[That it shall be the duty of the respective sheriiis of the several coun
ties of this state (at their own expense), to procure every year a list
of the names of the persons who. in their respective counties are quali
ﬁed to serve as jurors, with their places of abode hy designating their
respective townships and wards; said list to he made out and completed

Shnriifto procure
list ofpersons

qualiﬁed as _)llI‘0l'B

by the ﬁrst day oi’ January in each year, and kept in the respective
offices of said sheriffs, open to the inspection of all persons who may

wish to examine the same, without charge; and any she:-iii‘ who shall
neglect or refuse to comply with any or all of the provisions of this section,
shall forfeit the sum of ﬁve hundred dollars for every such offense, the
In) A juror has no right to challenge himself BlilIi0lli{lJ good
ground exists. Dm, Btclt-ham v. Pizmnt. Cbze 220. If above
the age of sixty-ﬁve he may be sworn by consent. Simon v.
lazily. '.' South. ‘G01.

A struck juror is not a petit juror within

the meaning 0! this section which makes service onapetii.

juror within three previous stared terms of the court a ground
of challenge. 1l[o.rr!u'U v. Slate, 24 Vr. 498. It is not a ground
of exception that one oi‘ the tulesmen is exempt irom jury duty.
That which exempts, but does not disqualify, is no cause lor s
challenge.

Patlew-son v. Slate, 19 V1-. 381.

i854

JURIES.
one-half to be paid to the state, and the other half to any person who shall
prosecute for the same, to be recovered with costs, by action of debt, in

Jurors, how
summoned.

How general panel
at ju rors selected.

any court of record having cognizance of that sum.] (a)
49. SEC. 4. That the eighth section of the act to which this is a supple
ment, which is in the following words, namely [see P. L. 1876, p. 360],
be and the same is hereby amended so as to read as follows :
['l‘hat every grand and petit juror shall be summoned by the sheriff or
his deputy, or by one of the coroners or eiisors, when the renire shall be
awarded to the coroners or elisors, by notice in writing, under his or their
hands, and served either personally, or left at the dwelling-house of such
juror, six days at least before the day on which such juror is required to
appear.]
50. 51:0. 5. That the thirteenth section of the act to which this is a sup
plement, which is in the following words, namely [see P. L. 1876, p. 360],
be and the same is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
[That it shall be the duty of each sheriff in this state, or in case of his
death or disability, ot' the coroncrs of the respective counties, or elisors
appointed by thc court on the fourth Tuesday before the commencement
of the regular term of any circuit court, court of oyer and termiuer and
general _jail delivery, common pleas and quarter sessions of the peace
to be holdcn in each county, at the court-house in each county, in thc

presence of the county clerk, and before the court of common pleas, which
shall meet at the hour of ten o'clock in the forenoon of said day in open
court, to select from among the residents of the county, qualiﬁed to serve
as jurors, the names of at least twice as many persons as thc said court
shall deem necessary to be summoned as jurors at the next ensuing term
of the aioresaid courts; and the names so selected shall be written on

separate pieces of paper, which pieces ol'-paper shall be separately folded
so as to conceal thc_ name of each juror, and put into a box; and
which when so folded shall be of the same size, color and shape as nearly

as may be, after which the said box Shall be closed and shaken in such a
manner as to intcrminglc the pieces of paper so folded, as aforesaid, and
put therein, and the said sheriff, coroner, or elisors, or some pcrson
appointed by the court for that purpose, shall in an open and public
manner, in the presence of the said clerk and court, and of such other
persons as may choose to be present on the occasion, draw out of said box
separately, as many of said papers as the number of jurors the said court
shall deem necessary to summon as aforesaid; which names shall be pub
liciy announced as drawn and transcribed by said clerk, as they are read.
by thc pcrson drawing them from the box; and the several persons whose
names shall be so found written on the papers so drawn out, shall consti
tute the general panel ofjnrors to be summoned by the said sheriff,
coroners or ciisors at the next ensuing term of the said courts; and the
sheriff, coroners, elisors or person appointed by thc court as aforesaid,
shall make or cause to be made, two complete lists of the names so drawn,
and certify the same under his or their hands, to be the panel of jurors
selected to ser\'e at such ensuing court 01' courts, and the judges of thc

said court of colnmon pleas, or a majority of those
certify under their hands that the jurors named in
selected in all respects according to the provisions of
certilicatcs shall be annexed to each of the said lists of

present, shall also
the said lists were
this act, which said
jurors, one whereof

shall then be filed by the said clerk in his oliice, and the other shall be
delivered to thc sherili', coroners, or elisors; and if the judges of said court

of common pleas. or a majority of those present at the time, shall not cer
tify as required by this section, it shall be good ground for a challenge to
the array of jnrors.] (b)
,
(n) A challenge i0 the array will not hesustained by proof

the court orcommon pleas.

Pullrrmn v. Stale, I9 Vr. 381. See

that the shei'iﬂ' nelzlecled lo procure and keep III his oﬁice,
open to inspection, a list of the names of the persons l ualltied
to serve asjurors. The provisions of this section are d rectory
only. Gardner v. 81111:‘. 26 V1". l7.
(b) The general panel ofjurors for the term must he drawn
in the presence of the court of common pleas. [n Monmouth

mu~dnn~ v. Slate, 26 Vr. 20. It is suiﬂcient for liiejuiiges to cer
tify, generally, as required hy the act, that the jurors were
selecied in all respecls according lo the provl.-ions of the act,

section are all merely directory, except that which reqnirestln»

county, the presence of threejudgea is necessary to constitute

certiﬁcate of the judges. lb.

wilhou! a speciﬁcation of the particulars of the proceedings.
Pbuuon v. l‘n ion .\'nt. Bunk, ll Vr. 563. The pro\'ision.< ofihis

1855

JURIES.
51. SEC. 6. That the fourteenth section of this act shall read as follows,

namely [see P. L. 1876, p. 360], be, and the same is hereby amended so
as to read as follows:
[That in case of the death, disability or absence of the clerk, any judge
of the court of common pleas of such county may perform the duties
directed to be performed by the clerk in the last preceding section; and
one copy of the list of jurors drawn and certified as directed in said section,
shall be ﬁled in the clerk’s oﬁice of the county.]
52. S1-:0. 7. That the act entitled “ A supplement to an act entitled ‘ An
act relative to jurors and verdicts,’ ” approved April seventeenth, one thou
sand eight hundred and forty-six, which said supplement was approved
April fourth, eighteen hundred and seventy-three, and all other acts or parts
of acts inconsistent with this act be and the same are hereby repealed.

In case oi‘ death,
&c., oi‘ clerk,
judge oi‘ pleas
l0 act.

Repealer.

Supplement.
Approved April 2, 1884.

53. SEC. 1. That the circuit courts of the respective counties of this state
may, in their discretion, order,trials by foreign juries in all cases which
have been or which shall hereafter be commenced in any of such courts.

P. L. 1884, 1'). l‘.’.3.
Circuit courts may
order trials by

forelgn juries.

Supplement.
Approved April 1, 1857.

54. SEO. l. That from and after the passage of this act all challenges to
jurors, for any cause whatever in any kind of asuit,c-ivil or criminal, in
all courts of this state, may be made at any time before the juror is actually
sworn.
55. SEO. 2. That

all acts and

parts of acts, whether local, general,

P. L. 1887, p. 132.
V\'hen challenges

tojurors may be
made.

Repealer.

special or private, inconsistent with this act, be and the same are hereby
repealed, and that this act shall take etfect immediately.

Supplement.
Approved March l4, i889.

56. Sac. 1. That whenever for any reason a general panel of petit jurors
shall not have been selected and drawn for any term of the courts of any
county in the state at the time provided by law, it shall be lawful for the

P. L. 1889, p. 5-i.
Who to select and
d raw J u rors when
none have been
selected as pro

sheriﬂ, or, in case of his death or disability, of the coroners of such county

vlded by law.

or elisors appointed by the court, at a day to be ﬁxed by the justice hold
ing the circuit court of ‘such county, to select and draw such jury in the
manner provided by law.
57. SEO. 2. That in case there be not time to give to the jurors so drawn
the notice to attend as jurors provided by law, or if for any cause such
notice has not been or shall not be given to the jurors drawn in any county,
it shall be lawful for the justice of the supreme court holding the circuit
in such county to direct what notice shall be given, and notice given in
accordance with his direction shall be legal and valid for all purposes.
58. S1-:0. 3. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act be
and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act take effect immediately.

\'Vheu lawful for
Justice of supreme
court to direct
what notice shall
be given wjnrors
to attend, &c.

Repealer.

Supplement.
Approved March 25, 1889.

59. S1-:_c. l. That the grand jurors of the several counties of this state
shall receive the same compensation, and shall be paid in the same man

P. L. I889, p. 86.
Com pensatlon of
grand Jurors.

ner, as the petit jurors of the several counties.

Supplement.
Approved February 16, 1591.

60. SEC. l. That upon the trial of any indictment where twenty per
emptory challenges are not allowed, the defendant or defendants shall be

entitled to challenge peremptorily, at any time before the jury is sworn, ten

P. L. l89l, p 24.
Defendants in all
criminal cases
entitled to M. least
ten peremptory
challenges.

1856

JURIES.
of the general panel of jurors summoned and returned by the sheriff or
other oﬁicer.

Repealer.

[See Sec. 63, posh]

61. SEO. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent herewith, be and
the same are hereby repealed, and that this act shall take elfect immediately.

Supplement.
P. L issl-i, p. ‘Eli.

Proceedings on

order for struck
jury.

Approved May 8, 1.394.

62. SEO. 1. That the twenty-fourth section oi‘ the act to which this is a
supplement be and the same is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
[That when an order shall be made fora struck jury, the sheriti'ol'the
proper county, or other ofﬁcer who ought to iinpanel the jur_y in such a

case, shall deliver at a certain day and place, to the judge of the court
before whom the jury is to he struck, a hook containing the names of the
several persons in his county qualiﬁed to serv_e as jurors, with their
Notice.

Mode of selecting.

Forty-eight per

sons to beseiecled.

places of abode; and the party applying for such struck jury, or his

attorney, shall give six days‘ previous notice to the adverse party or
his attorney, and to the judge, sheriff or other officer aforesaid, of
the time and place of striking the said jury; at which time and place
the judge shall in the presence 0l' the parties or their agents or attor
neys, or such of them as shall attend for that purpose, select and tran~
scribe from the said book the names oi‘ forty-eight such persons, with
their places of abode, as he shall think most impartial and indiiferent
between the parties, and best qualiiied as to talents, knowledge, integrity,
tirmness and independence oi‘ sentiment to try the said cause; and there
upon the party applying for such ju|'_\', his agent or attorney shall ﬁrst

strike one of the said names, and then the adverse party, his agent or
Twelve to be
struck by each
party.
Remaining

twenty lnur lo
,i>e returned.

attorney shall strike out another, and so on,alternatel_v, until each have

stricken out twel\'c ; but if the adverse party shall not attend such striking
nor any person in his behalf, then the said judge shall strike for him;
and when each shall have stricken 'out twelve as al'oresaid, the remaining
twenty-four shall be the jury to be returned to try the case ; orthe said judge
may in his discretion permit either party to make a copy of said list so
selected by him and postpone the actual striking of said jury until a future
day to be ﬁxed by him not less than ﬁve nor more than ten days from the
day of selecting the said list, at which time the said parties or their agents,
or such oi’ them as may attend for that purpose, shall proceed to strike the

said jury in the manner hcreinabove directed, or as directed in the twenty
ﬁfth section oi‘ this act, as the case may require; and then the said judge
shall thereupon make a fair copy of the names of the remaining twenty
four persons, with their places of abode, and certify the same under his
hand to be the list oi’ jurors struck as aforesaid for the trial of the said
List delivered
with vcnlre ten
days before trial.

cause;

which

list shall be delivered to the sheriff or other oilicer who

ought to summon such jury, together with the venire facias, by the person
applying for such struck jury, his agent or attorney, at least ten days pre
vious to the time appointed for the trial of such cause, and such sheriff or
other officer shall thereupon annex the same list to the said venire facias
and return the same as the panel of‘ the jury to try the said cause, and
summon them according to the command of the said writ; and in case of
neglect or refusal to deliver the list and venirc aforesaid, the cause shall
be tried by a common jury of the county, unless the court shall for some
good cause determine otheru-ise.]

A further act concerning juries, approved March twenty-seventh,
eighteen hundred and seventy-four. (a)
_

P. L. 1878, p. zsi.

Approved April 4, 187!-1.

63. SEC. l. [Superseded by Sec. 60, G.7ltf’.]
in) No contest has been made over ihe validity oi’ this act, although its peculiar title may render its validity highly ques
ilonable. Jloxvtlilll V. Built, Z4 V1‘. 503.

JURIES.

1857

64. SEC. 2. That upon the trial of any indictment, the attorney-general
or prosecutor of the pleas oi‘ the state shall be entitled to challenge peremp

Peremptory
challenge-sallowed
prosecutor.

torily, at any time before the jurors are sworn, six of the panel ofjurors
summoned and returned i'or the trial thereof.

A further supplement to the act entitled “An act relative to juries
and verdicts," approved April seventeenth, one thousand eight
hundred and forty-six. (1)
Approved March 29, 1892.

P. r.. um, p. 345.

65. SEC. 1. That hereafter every person summoned to serve as a petit
juror in the supreme court, the circuit courts, the courts of oyer and ter
miner and general jail delivery, the courts of common pleas and the courts

Mileage at four
cents per mile
each way to be

of quarter sessions of the peace, who shall reside more than six miles from

in addition to per

the court-house, shall he entitled once in each week, while engaged in
attending court, in addition to the per diem allowance, to mileage at the
rate oi‘ four cents per mile each way from the juror’s residence and return
thereto.
'
‘
66. Sac. 2. That the distance from the residence of the juror to the
county court-house shall be counted by the most direct and usual route of
travel between the two points, and that it shall be the duty of the presid
ing judge, aided by the lay judges and sheriff of the county, to estimate
and determine such distances and enter the same opposite each juror's
_ name on a suitable list to be prepared for the purpose by the sheriﬁ', and
to certify the same by his signature, to the county clerk, who shall file the
same in his office.
67. SEC. 3. 'l‘hat in a book suitably ruled, the county clerk shall record
the names of jurors summoned, and the distance from his residence to the

pair! peiit jurors
diem.

Manner oi’ esti
mating distances.

Book of record
and receipt kept

by county clerk.

court,-house, as certiﬁed by the presiding judge, and opposite his name _the
amount due him, and have such juror write his name opposite said amount
as evidence oi‘ the receipt thereof, and that the county clerk shall be en
titled to receive eight cents per name for recording the same; provided,
that this act shall not apply to counties of the ﬁrst class.
68. S1-:0. 4. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro
visions of this act be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act
shall take eii'ect immediately.
Proviso.

Repealer.

IX. Miscellaneous acts.
An act to regulate the selection of grand and petit jurors in this
state.
Approved March 10, 1880.

69. SEO. 1. That hereafter regularly-licensed and practicing physicians
in this state shall he exempt from liability to be drawn upon any panel of
grand or petit jurors returned to any court in this state.

P. L. 1880, p. 131.
Physicians ex
empt from Jury
duty.

An act exempting ﬁremen in cities from serving on juries.
Approved March 10, 1880.

70. SEC. l. That any person who has served, or who shall have served,

seven years consecutively as a member of the ﬁre department of any city
of this state which is authorized to organize and control a ﬁre department,

shall be tlicreafter exempt from serving as a juror; provided, he shall have
ﬁled in the oﬂice of the clerk of the county in which he shall reside, a
certiﬁcate of such service, made by the chief of such fire department, or
by the city clerk of such city.

P. L. 1880, p. 108.
Members nfﬂre
department serv
ing seven yearn
exempt. from Jury
duty.

Proviso.

(1) The act to which this act purports tohe a. ﬂlrther supplement was repealed by the general repealer of 1875 to the Revision.

ll'i

1858

JFRIES.

An act concerning clerks of grand juries.
P. L. I877, p. 164.
Board of chosen
freeholdera to ﬁx
mlar of clerk of
gran

jn ry.

Proviso.

Approved March D, 1877.

71. Ssc. 1. That it shall be lawful for the hoard of chosen freeholders of
any county of this state wherein clerks of grand juries are now allowed by
law, to tix and determine the salary which shall be paid to the clerk of the
grand juries of such county; provided, that in counties having by the
census of the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-ﬁve a popu
lation of less than ﬁfty thousand inhabitants, it shall not exceed the sum
of two hundred dollars per annum, and in counties having by said census
a population exceeding ﬁfty thousand and less than one hundred thousand
inhabitants, it shall not exceed the sum of three hundred dollars per annum ;
and in counties having by said census a population of one hundred thou
sand or more inhabitants, it shall not exceed the sum of four hundred and
ﬁfty dollars per annum.
.

Supplement.

P. L. I887, p. 130.
Salary in counties
oI'100,000 or more.

Repeal er.

Approved April 1. 1887.

72. SEC- 1. That the salary of the clerks of grand juries in all counties
of this state having by the state census of one thousand eight hundred and
seventy-ﬁ\'e a population of one hundred thousand or more inhabitants
shall be three hundred dollars per term of court and no more.

73. SEO. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro
visions of this act be and the same are hereby repealed, and this act shall
he a public act and take effect immediately.

Supplement.
P. L. isso, p. ‘Z62.
Salary In counties
of 75.000 and less
than 100,000.

.
Approved April 11, 1889.

74. SEC. l. That the salary of the clerks of grand juries in all counties
of this state having by the state census of one thousand eight hundred and
eighty-ﬁvea population of seventy-ﬁve thousand or more inhabitants and
less than one hundred thousand inhabitants, shall be two hundred dollars
per term of‘ court, and no more.

Repealer.

75. SEO. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro
visions of this act be and the same arc hereby repealed, and this act shall
be a public act, and take ctfcct immediately.

Supplement.
P. L. 1893, P. %l.
Shall act as clerk
to the prosecutor
of pleas In certain
counties.

Approved Much 13, 1893,

76. SEO. 1. That the clerk of the grand jury of each of the juries in all
counties of this state having, by the state census of one thousand eight
hundred and eiglity-ﬁve, a population of two hundred thousand or more
inhabitants shall also act as clerk to the prosecutor of the pleas of such

&1ary.

Repealer.

county and for such service as clerk of the grand jury and as clerk to the
prosecutor of the pleas, shall receive a salary of eighteen hundred dollars
per year and no more, and said salary shall be payable monthly, by the
collector of the county.

77. SEO. 2. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the terms of
this act be and the same are hereby repealed, and this act shall be a public
act and take eﬁect immediately.

An act respecting the appointment of clerks of the grand juries in
certain counties of this state.
P. L. 1832, p. ‘.“.‘4.
Clerk ofgrand

jurles, how up
pointed and term

of oﬂice.

Approved March 31, 1882.

78. SEO. 1. That in each and every county in this state having a clerk
of the grand juries in such county, such clerk shall l10T('ﬂft8Y be appointed
by the court of oyer and terminer oi‘ such county, under the seal of said
court; and such clerk shall hold his office for the term of one year, unless
sooner removed by said court.

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

1859

An act to provide for the appointment of clerks of the grand jury in
certain counties in this state.
Approved March 23, 1688.

79. SEC. l. That hereafter, upon the application of a majority of the
board of chosen freeholders, it shall be lawful for the court of oyer and
terminer in the counties of this state where there is no provision now
made by law, to appoint a clerk for the grand jury, under the seal of the
court, who shall hold his office for the term of one year, unless sooner
removed by the court, the salary to be ﬁxed by the court, but in no case
to exceed the sum of one hundred dollars per year.

80. SEC. 2. That the said salary of the said clerk shall be paid by the

P. L. 1888, p. 211.
When court of
oyer and terruiner

may appoint clerk
of grand jury.
Term and salary.

How salary paid.

collector oi’ the county, quarterly, upon the certiﬁcate of the prosecutor
of the pleas.

Justices of the Peace.
1. How elected.
Number ascertained.
Oﬂicers ofeiection.
Vacancy. how su pplied.
5'-F?’-i5:'35P.=~-=.~P-+.=-.~ Manner orconducting election.
Statements of results.
Oomrnimioned by the governor.
Where election for vacancy.
Resignntlons to be to the governor.
Repealed by act of March 2.11, 18-l9.
Bond required.
How prosecuted.

\\'hen bond ﬂied.
Penalty for acting before taking oath.

16. Repealer and provisions as to certain cities.

17. Compensation ofelection otﬁcers, &c.
18. Mode ofascertnining number oi’ justices for each township
and ward.
I9. Time and manner of conducting elections.
20. Amended by section T2.
2i. When election for, not to be set aside.
22. Election ofjustioes of the peace.
23. Justice to report ﬁnes imposed and pay over same to county
collector monthly.
24. Fines heretofore imposed to be paid in thirty days.
Z5. Penalty for failure to report and make payment.
28. Fines not appropriated to any distinct use, payable to
county collector.

Ala;-' be voted for on same ballot as township oiﬂcers.

An act relative to justices of the peace.
Approved April 17, 1846.

1. That justices of the peace shall he elected by ballot, at the annual
meetings oi’ the ‘townships and wards in the several counties of this state.
' 2. That in order to ascertain the number ofjustices oi‘ the peace which
each township or ward may elect, at each annual meeting of the inhabitants
thereof, the abstract of the last preceding census, as published by law,
shall he conclusive evidence of the number of inhabitants in each town~

.ship or ward.

R. S. 629.
How elected.

Number ascer
tained.

[See Sec. 18, p0st.]

3. That the judge of election elected at the previous town meeting, shall
preside at and conduct the election; and the lawful voters present at the
opening of the poll shall elect viva voce, a person being a lawful voter in
the township, to be clerk of such election.
4. That in case oi‘ the neglect to serve, or the absence or other disability
of the judge of election. or where no judge has been elected, the lawful
voters present shall proceed to till such vacancy in the manner provided in
the foregoing section for the election of the clerk.
5. That the election for justices of the peace shall be opened at the same
time, and conducted in the same manner, and be subject to the same rules,

as elections for state or county oiiicers are or shall be, and the same quali
ﬁcations of voters required as are required in the election of township
otﬁcers; and the same duties shall devolve upon thejudge of election and
the clerk as are to be performed by the board of election and clerk in
other elections; they shall take the same oath or affirmation, as far as
applicable, be invested with the same powers, and be liable to the same

penalties, and the result ascertained and stated in the same manner.
Secs. 18 and l9,p0st.]

[See

Oﬂicers ofelectlon

Vacancy su pplled.

Manner of con
ducting election.

1860
Statements of
result.

Commissioned.

Where election
for vacancy.

Reslgnations.

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
6. That two statements of the result of every election for justices of the
peace shall be made, one of which the judge oi‘ election shall inclose and
seal up, and deliver or safely transmit to the clerk of the county, who shall
forthwith ﬁle the same in his oilice; and the other shall in like manner be
delivered or transmitted to the secretary of state, within ten days after
such election, who shall forthwith ﬁle the same in his ofﬁce.
‘
7. That the secretary of state shall exhibit the several statements of the
results oi’ such elections to the governor, who shall commission the persons
elected for the county; their commissions shall bear date and take eﬂ'ect
on the ﬁrst day of May next after their election,and they shall hold their
oﬂices for ﬁve years. unless elected to ﬁll a vacancy, then for the unex
pired term only.
8. That if at any such election there be a vacancy or vacancies to be
supplied, and a justice or justices to be elected for ﬁve years, it shall be
necessary to designate on the ballot for which term the person voted for
is intended, by adding after the names of persons intended to supply
vacancies, the words “in place of,” and the name of the person or persons
whose place is to be supplied; the statement of the result shall show which
persons are elected to ﬁll vacancies, and in whose place, and they shall be
commissioned accordingly.
9. That when any justice of the peace shall be desirous of resigning his
oﬁice, he shall send or deliver his resignation in writing to the governor
or person administering the government, and shall deliver a copy of such
resignation forthwith to the clerk of the township for which such justice
shall have been commissioned, to be by him ﬁled, and thereupon his said
oﬁice shall be considered vacant.

10. [Repealed by act of March 2d, 1849.
Bond required.

hundred

How prosecuted.

Filed.

P. L. 1849, p. 298.]

11. That every person hereafter elected to the office of justice of the
peace in any of the counties of this state, shall give bond to the state of
New Jersey in such sum as the judges oi’ the court oi‘ common pleas of
such county, or any three of them, may deem suﬁicient, not less than ﬁve
nor

more

than

three

thousand

dollars,

with

good

freehold

security, to be approved by such judges, conditioned for the payment, on
demand, to the. person entitled or authorized to receive the same, of all
monies that may come into his hands as such justice of the peace during
his continuance in oiﬁce.
12. That such bond shall be for the beneﬁt of any person concerned or
aggrieved; and the circuit court of the county may, from time to time,
upon application in writing by any person concerned or aggrieved, order a
prosecution of the bond to be conducted at the expense of the applicant.

13. That such bond shall be ﬁled in the office of the clerk oi‘ the proper
count
.
14=.yThat
ii‘ any justice of the peace shall enter upon the execution of

Penalty for acting
before taking

oath, &c.
May be voted for

on same ballot us
township oﬂicers.

Election in Jersey
City and Newark.

his office before taking his oﬁicial oaths and ﬁling such bond, he shall
forfeit, for each offense, the sum of one hundred dollars.

15. That townships and wards which now vote or shall hereafter vote by
ballot at their annual town and ward meetings, shall, at the time they
vote for justices of the peace, vote upon the same ballot for township
officers, and upon such other questions as such townships and wards are or
may be authorized or required by law to vote upon by ballot.
16. That all acts and parts of acts authorizing townships and wards
to vote by ballot at their annual town and ward meetings, so far as the
same are inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are hereby repealed ;
p1'0'vz'ded, that the election oi‘ justices of the peace in Jersey City shall
be under the direction of the same board of election and clerk, and shall
o)en
and close at the same hours as are )l‘6SCl‘lb9(i b J' “ An act to incor- _
l

porate Jersey City,” passed the twenty-second day of February, eighteen
hundred and thirty-eight; and that the election of justices of the peace
in the several wards in the city of Newark, shall be under the direc
tion of the same board of election and clerk, and shall open and close at
the same hours as are prescribed relative to the annual ward elections, by
“ An act to incorporate the city of Newark,” passed the twenty-ninth day

JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

1861

of February, eighteen hundred and thirty~six, anything in this section to
the contrary notwithstanding; and the officers of said election shall be
eligible to any oﬂice to be voted for at such election, except that of justice
of the peace; but the statements of the result of the election for justices of

the peace, shall be separate and distinct from the certiﬁcates of the result
of the election as to the other officers voted i'or at such election.
17. That the judge oi‘ election, the clerk and secretary of state, shall
receive the same compensation for services required by this act, as is now
or may hereafter be provided by law for like services in elections for state
or county oﬂicers.
‘

Compensation oi
oillcers.

Supplement.
Approved March 13, 1856.

18. SEO. 1. That in order to ascertain the number ofjustices of the
peace which each township or ward may elect at each annual meeting of
the inhabitants thereof, the abstract of the late census taken under the

authority of a law of this state. or of any succeeding census taken under
the authority of the United States, or of this state, as published by law,
shall baa conclusive evidence of the number of inhabitants in each township
or war .

P. L. 1856, p. %2.
Mode oi‘ascertain
lug number of
justices for each

iownship and
ward.

Supplement.
Approved March 19.1857.

19. S1‘-:c. 1. That hereafter the elections for justices of the peace for the
several townships and wards which vote bjwballot at their town meetings,
of this state, shall be opened at the same time and place, and conducted in
the same manner and be subject to the same rules as elections l'or the
several township and ward oﬂicers are or shall be, and shall in all other
respects, be subject to the same regulations as are provided for in the ﬁfth
section of the act to which this is a supplement. [See Sec. 21, post.-I

P. L. 1867, p. 295
’l‘ime and manner

ofconductlng
election.

Supplement.
Approved April 21, 1876.

P. L. ms, p. 221.

20. Si-:0. 1. [Amended by Sec. 22,post.]
21. SEO. 2. That no election of justices of the peace heretofore held in
this state shall be set aside, nor shall the ofhcialacts of such justice be
deemed illegal, by reason of the polls not having been kept open during
the hours required by law, in case it shall appear that such irregularity
occurred through a misunderstanding of the law on the part ofthejudges
of election.

When election for
not to he set aside.

Supplement.
Approved April 3, 1876.

22. SEC. 1. That section one oi‘ a supplement to said act approved April
twenty-ﬁrst, eighteen hundred and se\'ent_\'-six [see Sec. 20, ante], which
reads as follows [see P. L. 1876, p. 281],be and the same is hereby
amended so that it shall be enacted to read as follows:
[That hereafter, at the election for justices of the peace in the several
townships and wards in this state which vote by ballot at their town meet
ings and municipal elections, the polls shall be opened at the same time
and place and the election conducted in the same manner and be subject
to the same rules as are provided by law for the election of the several
township and municipal officers in said townships and wards, and without
any compensation therefore to the officers holding said election, in addition
to what is provided by law for conducting said annual elections for town
ship and city oﬂ1'cers.]

P. L. 1878, p. 259.

Election of jus

lice! of the peace.

An act to provide for the disposition of ﬁnes that may be imposed by

justices of the peace.
Approved April 12, 1876.

P. L. 1876, p. 102.

23. SEC. 1. That each justice of the peace in this state shall report

Justices to report

monthly, during his term of ofﬁcc, on the ﬁrst of each mouth, to the col
lector of the county within which such justice may reside, the amount of

pay over same to
county collector
monthly.

fines imposed, and

1862

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

Proviso.

Fines heretofore
imposed to be

paid in thirty days.

Penalty for failure
to report and
make payment.

Fines not appro
priated to any
distinct use, pay
able to county

c>iiector.

ﬁnes imposed and received by such justice during the preceding month,
and shall at the same time pay over all ﬁnes so by him imposed, the said
ﬁnes to be received and held by the county collector for the use of the
county ; p~rovi1;le¢l, that this act shall not apply to ﬁnes, the disposition of
which is now provided for by law, except such as are now declared to be
for the use of the county.
24. S1-:0. 2. That all lines which ma_v have been heretofore imposed by
anyjustice of the peace, and included wit.hin the terms of the preceding
section shall be paid over as above provided, within thirty days from the
time this act shall take effect.
25. Sac. 3. That ii‘ any justice shall fail to report and make payment as
above directed for thirty days after notice in writing from the county col
lector so to do, such justice shall be deemed guilty oi’ a misdemeanor, and
on conviction thereof, shall be punished by a line not exceeding ﬁve hun
dred dollars, or imprisonment not exceeding one year, or both,at the dis
cretion of the court.
26. SEC. 4. That all ﬁnes which may be authorized under an_v proceed
ings before any justice of the peace. and which have not been appropriated
to any distinct use by existing legislation, shall be and they are hereby
appropriated and made payable to the county collector of the county in
which the justice may reside, for the use oi‘ thecounty.

9
Just1ces
Courts.
I. Jt'RISDICTION.
1. Extent ofjurlsdlctlon.
,2" I" case of pemmy.

37. Proofby affidavit of book account.
38' Amdfwn Ofp“rmersbip'
39. Prooi by aiiidavit of notes, &c.

3. “men debt’ ‘kc.’ exceeds $100.

(I‘)¢im1‘peteutxkpo'?'le<lge ill aihant.

-i. Limitation ofjurisdiction.

'

Sa"reemui 0 luv‘

5. \\'hat penalties cognizable.

v

6. Entry ofactlon without process.

‘ - JUDGMh*\T'

7. Amended by section l5'.»_
_8. Justice whose term has expired may conclude a case.
ii. \\'herejustices’ writs shall run.

4'2. When judgment against plaintiﬁ.
43. Judgments by confession.
4-i. \\’l.iere case is submitted tojury.

45. Form of judgment in case of action on bond, &c.,wlth

Ii. l’ROCI_~IS-'5.

1>en&ll>'

10. Justice
Process,not
when
testedblank
and signed.
11.
to issue
writs.

_
.
‘T, I’ EXECLTIOR

12. \Vhen process void.

46- The e-‘9°u"°"

13. Process to compel appearance. Xvhen warrant may issue.

47' wbe" execution agaim“ bod-v may ‘Sine’

14. Justice to make order.

43- Order °f3"5‘ic‘-‘

15. Defendant may apply to set aside order.

49- ‘\PP“°‘m°" ‘O 5°‘ “Side

16_ Jnstme m fm.mSh 3 com. of 0,.de,._
17. Summons. when returnable; how served.

50. Justice to ﬁle order and give copies.
51' EH96‘ or Order ‘O set a3id9'

18_ H0“. Serwd on c0,.p0,.at|On_

5'1. When constable, &c., to incur no penalty.

19. Sum indorsed on warrant; ii‘ paid, defendant discharged.
-_»_0_ |,,.m_.e9(",,g,, "pm, “.urmm_

53' Service 0' “der
-'34. Justice to furnish copies of order.

g|_ R,_.c0g,,i,_,u,ce and form O;-_

55.
56.
1.
58.

\\"hcn second application allowable.
Stay of execution.
But not in suit upon formerjudgment.
Goods, how advertised and sold.

59.
60.
6i.
62.

Ciai m of proper! y, proceedings.
Effect of, and proceedings after verdict.
Oi‘ taking the body on execution.
Sl.‘l7'e‘f(l(.‘i(l8 not necessary.

.

Q

UL PLEADIXQ

'322334‘-15Alllellded ll)‘ 5969011 155WIN-’Il tlelllalld and D168 I0 be ﬁ|9d9959114811!» “'h‘?" P"P¢l"d9dTitle I0 lm\d-1vl@aded26. Effect of plea.
27. Bond required in such case.

63. Notice, how served.
64. Execution in force one year.

65. .4l:‘rz.s and pluruns execution.
I\'_ TRIAL,

66. Priorityofexecutions.

67. Property levied on to be inventoried.
23. Proceedings ifdefendant does not appear.
68. Constable liable for neglect.
29. When cause shall be heard.
30. Trial, when and how adjourned.
31. llourot'adjournment. 32. Adjournment in case of set-offfiled.
33. Jury demanded and when.

34 Juror's oath.

\\’itne&s’ oath.

35. Fines ofjnr-_-rs and witriesses.
36. If defendant has ﬁled offset, plaintifff shall not withdraw
suit.

69. Execution against corporation.
VII. DOCKETING JUD(¥MI~I.\'TS.
70. Judgment may be docketed, when.

7i. Clerk to keep docket.
7'2. Mode of docketiug.
73. How docketed judgment to operate.

74. .\'o proceedings in Justice's court thereafter.

'

1863

JUSTICES’ COURTS.
75. How revived.
Clerk to index.
. In cases of appeal and cerli/n‘art'.
Clerk to enter the determination on cn'tin1'a1'i or appeal.

125 Justice to have access to docket.
126. Penalty for not depositing.
Transcript from docket in clerk's oﬂice, evidence.

|)"'

al

1'28. Justice not to keep a tavern.
129. Who not to prosecute or defend stilts.

VIII. APPEAL.
5. co.\'sT.-\B1.E;s—'r1n-:1n nt"ri1;s.
Amended by section 138.

Pleas may order stay of execution.
. Execution stayed where bond ﬁled with judge or clerk.

130. Constables to be ministerial oiiiicers.

New appeal bond substituted.
Justice to send up transcript and bond.

6. 1'.\ arn-Ls.

\\'hen appeal may be heard.
. How appeal tried.
Admission of evidence on trial of appeal.

131 \\'hat provisions of the “ Practice Act ” applicable.
How new evi
7. co.\'sTru7<.'r1o.\'.

dence admitted.
Repealed by section H9.

Amended by section 150.
Judgment on report of referees reviewed.
So non-suit on trial of appeal.
. A'nended by section 151.
Justice who tried case not to sit.
.. Entry of rule necessary to makejudgment lien on land.
. Clerk to record such judgment.

IX. CERTIORARI.
96. Judgment may be reviewed only by certlm-art‘.
No Cr‘"I'!l'0‘l"t't1‘l allowed where appeal lies.

3:‘-?53 .$ How rm-tim-rtri obtained.

132. Section 300 of the “ Practice Act" applicable.
133. Act applicable to district courts of Newark.
XII. SLTPPLEMENTS.
13-1. Justice whose term has expired may determine any cause
undetermined and grant appeal.
135. May issue srirefacias to revive judgment.

Amended by section I48.
_
When not necessary to give notice of the production of
new evidence on appeal.

136.
I37.

138. Terms upon which justice is required to grant an appeal.
139. Preceding section to apply to all actions in which appeals
might be taken.

When adjudicated.
Costs on afﬁrmance, but not on reversal.
Jurisdiction extended to circuit courts.
1
101. What errors or mistakes corrected.
102.. Costs in such cases
103. Judgments not reversed for mere irregularities.
104. \\'hen a rehearing before the justice may be ordered.

X. COSTS.
Fees.

Items of.

140. Holder of bill or note may include all parties in one action.
H1. Copy of bill or note to be annexed to state of demand.
142. Judgment against one or more defendants. Costs in case
of set-011'.
1-13. Verdict shall certify amount of set-oil‘ allowed.
144. Rights, &c., of parties as between each other to remain as
heretofore.
145. Constable to make money out of person principally liable.
146. When an aims or piuries execution may issue.
147. Repeater.
143. Fees ofconstables in serving criminal warrants.

106. Fees on appeal.

107. ‘V110 to pay thejury of twelve men.
108.
109.
110.
111.

Or six men.
When constable not required to serve process.
Fees of justice to be paid before appeal.
Fees to be paid beiore hearing of appeal.

XI. M ISCE LLAXEOUS.
i. ,ut|:.\'mtI=:.\"rs.
112. Amendments made.
113. Provision of section 138 of “Practice Act" extended tojus
tices’ courts. Proviso.
114. Defective return of constable may be amended, when.

149. Repeater.
150. Appeal from Judgment not over$30 to be tried by court
unlessjury be demanded.
151. New trial may be granted on appeal.
152. Appeals in city having district court. Procedure.
153. Appeals in city having two district courts. C‘Pr(i0r(u'i.
154. ltepeaier.
15-’). State of demand may be served with summons.
156. What actions to be styled actions upon contract.
157. What actions to be styled actions of tort.
158.

County clerk to make transcript of record in docket and
docket judgment.

159. Suits by and against corporations and attorneys.
160. In trial of appeals. witnesses not produced or evidence not
oﬂered or admitted in the court below may be introduced

2. BE!-‘ERE.\'(‘I-LS.
115. Rules of reference to be entered.
3. Di:‘.I>OsI'I‘I().\'S.

without notice.
161. Either party may demand trial of appeal by iury upon
notice to clerk.
. Repeater.

116. In;-positions of witnesses, when taken.
1 17. Such depositions, how taken.
118. What provisions of “ Evidence Act" applicable.

4. JUSTI(.‘ES—T}{EIB DUTIE-"1 AND DOCKETS.

119. Justice’s docket, entries in.
120. Justice to enter full bills of costs.

Justices out of oﬁice may give transcripts.
122. Where docket deposited after death of justice.
1;’-3. If impeached, docket, where deposited.
124. Same, on removal from county.
121.

XIII. MISCELLANEOUS ACTS.
163. Amended by section 164.
164. \Vhen appeals to be put on
165. Repeater.

list.

166. Jurisdiction of Justices’ courts increased to amount of $200.
167. Repeaier. _
168. Justice not to have jurisdiction in cases of persons for

169

0

whom he is agent, &c.
Final judgments may be docketed in the cou
pleas.

oi‘ common

‘I364

JUSTICES' COURTS.

R. S. 2'51.

P. L.
-'
“
-*

nus, p. 1'27.
1856, p. i-t2.
1857, p. ass.
18-38, p. 34,in
40,

“

1862, p. 27.
219. 325.
1970, p. 61.
1871, p. 116.
1873, p. 119.
1875. p. 77.
H2.

"
“
"
“

Extent of juris
diction.
it. S. 229, Q 1.

'

I. Jurisdiction. ( l )
An act constituting courts for the trial of small causes.
Revision-Approved March 27, 1874 .

1. That every suit oi‘ a civil nature at law, where the deiit, liaiaiice or

other inattcr in dispute docs not exceed, exclusive oi’ costs, the sum or
value oi’ one liundretl doll-.ii"s,(u) shall be and lierehy
made cogiiizalile
before aiiyjiistice oi‘ the peace of any county in this state, who is lit-rchy
authorized to hold a court within such county, to hear, try and determine
the same according to law,(b) although the cause of action did not arise
in said county; which court shall he a court of record and vested for the
purposes aibresaid, with all such power as is usual in courts 0i' record of
this state; (0) ]fir0vi'iIm:l iilica_i_/s, that this act shall not extend to any action
ol' replevin, slander, (ii) trespass for assault-, battery (0) or iniprisoiinient.((1)

In case of penalty.

Ib.. Q 64.

nor to any actioti wherein the title(Ii) to any lands, tenements, herctlita
meuts, or other real estate shall or may in any wise come in question.
[See Sec. 166, posh]
2. That wlienevcr the amount really due or recoverable upon any hond,
bill, note or other contract in writing,does not exceed, exclusive oi‘ costs, the

Amended.

sum or value of one liundrctl dollars at the time when the suit was insti

tuted, such amount shall be reco\'eral)le before a justice oi‘ the peace, with

otit regard to any kind of penalty expressed therein, in the satne manner
Doutlhly v. Rm-ti, Pen. *90'l. A justice ofthe peace sitting in
the court for the trial of small causes. eiitzaged in the trial ofa
civil cause, has no power to cotnniit to prison as a punishment
tor a contempt contniitted in open court. Rhincliart v. Ltlncc,
H Vi‘. 311.
(ti ) .S‘parks v. Holstoii, Pen. ‘#814.
tel "urrimii v. Sinock, I'c‘)l. *1l2. Balm v. Atlaiiu, Pm. *9$4.
_iIrii-cnlillr v. Oliver, Pen ii’-380.
(pi Jej;r'r-rs v. Brookjielil. (ore 38
_
.(h) 'l‘hejnstice may try the right ofpos.ci~s.u'oii, as cutting down
seven per cent., may sue for one hundred dollars. Hoppirr
trees ot'|zrns'=.
f_1'i'¢‘_0ory v. .I\'1|)lI:I!Rf, 6 Hui. 62. Hill V. Citrlct‘,
v. SIrr~'liiiaii. Pen. ‘Q08. Saddle River V. ('nI_/o;r. 1 Ho!-. ll-3.
1 Har. R7. But tint where there. is atiy dispute as to the
l;1'i'i'_(7i(h \'. Clulc. 4 Hal. 26-1.
.H'ou‘cll \'. Birriir-ill, Sjirii. 265.
rim; of the land on which the trees grew. 1!iii-w~_i/ v. Drum
In actions of tort. sounding in damages, where counts are
-iiiund, (.b.-i,-.- 217. in trespass for ctittiiig down ti tree in a high
added to nieet the evidence, and where om" i'ii_ii_ir_i; only is
way, adeed ina_v be admitted in evidence tosliow the boundary
sought to he redresst-.-(l, a justice hasjurisdiction although the
litie of an adjoining farm.
li'i'iilr-r v. l’r"h--i-.-ioii,4 Zuh. 5'14. In
stints added tr-tzctlier exceed one hundred dollars. S0]/7‘(’8 v.
trespass attains! an overseer oftlie roads iiirtrcspassitig on lauds
li'm-d, 1'F‘!t. *l007. The plaintifff cannot by _ri'c!iri'oti.i errilils
il'rirri V.
reduce his claim to an amount \\‘illllil one hundred dollars. - of plaintiii' and reniovint: sloiim. dtc., tlierefriini.
Folly/, 2 Saiiir/i. =‘~'~i-°i'.:. fir, for an injury to a. crop of grain by
.S'outlri's V. .S'!raHon., Pen. '1‘-328. (f‘o{ii'ell V. I'm".c¢'I1, Prfn. "‘56i.
breach of warranty in the sale of clover seed.
l'rmn0!/ v.
Howrll v. Bin-iirtr, Sprii. 265. The credits must be specific, and
(-i'i'i'i:iis, 3 Zrib. 201. He may try treapassqwirr"clniisiiiitfi'¢'riit,
set out particularly. Price V. i8’/itor-l:, Pin. *20ti. La Rim v.
Bouphancr, i South. ‘$101. ii’i'Il-t'o'ni.<i \'. Ilamiﬂmt, 1 South. ‘V2.20.
where the title is not involved. Mimi v. Coiiiptoii. Pm. H145.
Hrt{r{1¢"i'l3/ v. Van It'i'rk, 4 Iltil. 118. Pinlriii _i/ v. ."ifi/T118‘, 1 Znh. 694.
Rut not in trespass for fishing where defendant claints title to
the ﬁshery. Ri'.t-plimit V. ]7l8I\'t'(’]), Co.rr‘ 231. Action for over
Ker); v. It'e‘Il_t/, 3 V1‘. 56. A defmdunr cannot by an unveriﬁed
ﬂowing lands lies in ajustit-e’s court. Jilin-A-ii-¢'/I v. Ifiiui riimn,
charge overone hundred dollars oust the justice oi’liisjurisdic
tion. Hnjfmrtn v. .Rr.'ailin{/, Pm. '-‘.361. Jfoiifiiriiiicigu v. -S'iiott-Itill.
Pirn.*1032. -S'itt!ci'/Iii:-nitc v, Jlorgriii, Pc1i.="~96'.’.. lint not ifthe free
hold be permanently injured. i'aii1ii_i/t v. Mm-.-/i, :2 Soiirli. =‘-=-' 7..
Pen. #361.
(0) The justice must l‘hﬂ1'{}f'. the jury on the law involvcd in
Du-on v. Scott. 3 Hill. 430. See Hunt v. .‘lIo1"ri'.s-. 7 Hui. 175. Nor
the case, and this duty can in no way be evaded. i5'<i_i/i-rs v.
where the defendant claims title to lands, the rents oi‘ which
ii'iu'd, 1‘i~n. ‘"'-I007. I'u1I1_n v. Bnnr_i/, 1 Snitlh. "5"-125. Ri‘O(iIilI_'P'” V.
plaintitl‘ 11-ll0SIi*.‘-R due to him. Siiiilli v. L('i‘_l/(U71, l‘o.i~r I77. .\'or
lVt.r01t, i Sflilﬂl. *-362. Toilti \'. (.‘o!1in.~t. 1 Hui-. 1‘_'7. Linn v. 1t’o.¢-Q,
for injury to pliiintiti"s land by theprojection ofa building over
1 H(il'.
.~lIl<-it v. il'o-itaiiioA'rr. 2 i'r. 370. Reading asrritiitc
it, and damage caused h_v water dripping therefrom. Jilru-kwcll
v. I/.ili’r.‘, 1 South. ‘B112. lie cannot tryau action for Il1l‘8fiPp1'flflIS.
to the jury is no charge. Bi-ouiliivli v. Ni':i-mi,l S1111/h.#3li2.
Brig/I.v(oii v. i'ul('nti1ir, 1 Hm". 3-16. Berry v. ii'illi'um.s, 1 Ztlb. 423.
Pi:-A-Ii-" v. (,-'1)’l-‘0'7l)H)'|‘1‘ll, 1 Srii/iii. “"319. Nor a rt;/ht of way. Ran
criticising Piillni v. .Ronry, 1 Sou!/i. “=12-3. But it is not error to
dolph. v. Jloiilforil. 1 Jim: 2213. Nor an action for ohstructing a.
refuse t.o cliarge if there is no question of law in dispute. ll'rst
private road. O-\'lJf)7‘TU' v. Biirclir-1-,2 Diucli. 308 Nor forbreach of a
cott v. l)mizcnhrikc1', 1 Jlni. 132. Do-t'i'srni v. .S'chno!¢'y, 5 Hui. i~i-’i.
covenant oi \varrant_v.where piaititiiisiits up that defendant had
Or.li' the justice was not rt-qim.~ir.i-it to cliarpze on that point.
not ti good title when the deed was made. Biii~rou_oIi v. Vi.ind¢.-r
-iwv", 2 -S'0it!h. ‘F809. Nor whether grain passed by a conveyance
Coir v. 'l'u_i/(or, 2 Zah. 59. It is improper to ask him to chartze
oi‘ the land.
li'r.t-{brook v. .1-Jumr, 1 1Iur.Sl, S4. Nor trespass
the jury in a certain wayon a pointstateti, especially ifit be not
urely a question oflaw. Bwuis v. ]‘hi'1!ips,-i Dutch. 125. Nor
for pulling down ahouse. i’oiiiitaln- v. I.'m!, I"-ii.*-192. Ills
jurisdiction extends only to try tliefric! of possession, and not
s the justice hound to take up several points and express a
the right of possession. !.'ri inp_rt'¢~=lil v. .]'ohii.t~mi, 1 Zoh. -‘*3. J1: .\‘.\'[(‘r
separate opinion on each one. Yoitnns v. Siirtdi.i'ti.iiid, 3 i'i'. 32.
V. Fl:-iriiiiy/, l2 V1‘. 108. JP_[!'i'i_i/ V. (lwcn, 12 Vi‘. ‘.3130. Ifillmttn V.
So. if he should be requested to declare that to be thclaw
which is not so, and he refuse, the party has no advantage.
Stmi_riii'. 20 Vi‘. 191. Proof oftlie dedication otland to public
.‘ifiIIx v. Sir;/lit. 2 -\,'Oil”i. *565. Or, on ti. minor nmller which
use as a highway, by mean-= of a transier oi title. irom which
the inl'e|-mice of dedication is sought to be drawn, involves 0
would not change the result or prejudice the party exceptintr.
A_i/iwi v. Hm Liv-ii, 2 South. ’i°‘.'ii7. I‘rriii;i_/irhlv, ]<,'(3/_ 1 G1~_15()_
question to title of lands, &c., not capufileot' being tried in
Ro<h"iihou_nh v. l.’oiinhiii~_i/, 4 Zuh. 491. So, ii tiiejustice should err
the court for the trial of small catiscs. l'i-niiir/ii v. 1071173. 13 i’i-.

(rt) Where the amount in dispule. or the balance does not
exceed one hundred dollars, the Justice l1£lHj1lI’lS('llCil0Il. what
ever may be the amount of the accounts iti\'0i\'c(l. Sou/Ii. v
Hull, (me 29. .-’lIcCrtuly v. Barnes, Cozrc 52. Jolnison v. Cm)(
bnugh, l_‘o.rc 55. E(ic~ri't v. ]i'wen,1 .S'mith. ‘L203. Furl: 1/ v. )[c
Jnt-irc. 1 Gr. 190. ]t'm*-p v. ]t'ell_i/, 3 l'i-. 56. B(tIcm- v. Br(|i's(e‘ti,
Pm. "950. Sc, ii‘ the fnfe‘rr.w! on an account added thereto
would niakc the total exceed one htindred dollars. yet the
creditor, being at liberty to claim any rate of interest under

in the ad mission or rejection of evidi-nee. a party can derive tio

561.

advantage unless he prove how he was injured thereby. Lyons
v. I1oi~i.¢, 1 i'r. 301. In an action or .v-liwfru-ia.~i on a_iud;:nient",
errors in such jndgrnent cannot be inquired into. 1>'mv.ii'm' v.
Scrvicr. l Hm‘. $7 -S‘chu;i/lrr v. Mcﬂiwt. l I-far. 248.
(cl The jnstlce'a court is a court of record.
Schoolcy v.
T'iU7’IlF, (*0./rr 71. Iﬁiicliiiimi v. (.hok..S'pe1i. 271. A jl1ti_4’i1’lf‘Ili'.
of a jtistice's court is conclusive between the parties. iftne
record shows his jurisdiction.
i'nn Dorm v Hm-ron,l I)lil(‘h~.
205. Riiic.<-rl v. ll'or/.', 6 l'i-. 316 The ]')1‘If8il7I)]')tI‘('I7I is in favor of

cutting or destroyinz Itrnwing trees, when the plaiiititf cati

all his procPPflill2‘S. J/iinm v. DITA‘-\'U7l~, (.‘o:ri' 257.
Dnnzeiibnkrr, 1 Hui. 132.

ll'i.wo(/. \'.

Van 1);/Ire v. B(l§’lc(lU, I-i Gr.

A. justice oi‘ the peace has jurisdictioii of an action for

prove actual possession of the premises.

Bloom v. S/I‘I!Ill‘l'. '21

I’-r. 59. ifthe defendant produces evidence that the plaititiffis
entitled only to a temporary possessioii, and that the fee is in

another, the question oi‘ title is presented in the cast-and there
iore the justice must dismiss the suit because he has no jurisdic
tion. lb. A justice of the peace may decide cases which
involve the question of actual possessiombttt he has no jurisdic
tion in cases which rest upon the constructive piissi-ssitiii which
follows the title to lauds. ]‘.'l_l/ v. S/'haiicA~, 23 i'r. 120.

2'24.

(ii By Sec. 168.po.~if. the. jurisdiction extended to every suit nfa civil nature at law, &c., where the debt, balance or other matter

in dispute does not exceed, exclusive of costs, the sum or value oi‘ -$1300.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

1865

as any other debt or demand of one hundred dollars or under is made
recoverable by this act. (a)
3. That where the debt, balance, or other matter in dispute, or amount

really due or recoverable as aforesaid exceeds. exclusive of costs, the sum
or value of one hundred dollars, the plaintifff may recover in such court a

When debt, &c.,
exceeds M00.

sum not exceeding one hundred dollars and costs, but such recovery shall
be a bar to the recovery of the residue of such debt, balance, or other

matter in dispute in any court whatsoever.
4. That nothing in sections two or three of this act shall he held or cou
strued as conferring jurisdiction upon any justice in any of the cases
excepted out of the justice‘s jurisdiction by section one.
5. That every sum of m.oney or penalty, not exceeding one hundred
dollars, to be sued for and recovered h_v virtue of any law of this state. in
any court of record, or in any court having cognizance thereof, shall be and
hereby is made cognizable before any justice of the peace, in manner
aforesaid. (b) [Reference to this section is erroneously made in Sec. 24, on
page 1454. anle .- it should have been to Sec. 148, post]
6. That parties may agree to enter without process any action before a
justice of the peace to the decision of which he is competent, if process
had been executed, and the court shall proceed thereon to ﬁnal judgment,
and execution in the same manner as if a summons or a warrant had been
issued and dilly served. (c)

Limitation of
jurisdiction.

What penalties
cognizabie beiore

justice.
R. S. 229, Q’ 65.

Entry of action
without process.

Ih., Q 2|.

7. [Amended by Sec. I59, post.]
8. That any justice of the peace whose term of oﬁice may hereafter
expire shall proceed to the ﬁnal determination of any cause or proceeding

Justice whose
term oi onice has

then undetermined before him, and also make return to all writs, orders
or rules to him directed, issuing out of any court in this state, in the same

clude I cause.
P. L. i8-55, p. 34, £3

expired may con

manner as if his term of office had not expired. [Sec Sec. 134, post]
9. That the territorial jurisdiction oi‘ every justice of the pence under
this act shall he co-extensive with the limits of the county for which he is
appointed and commissioned; his writs. precepts and process shall run in
and through such county, and he ma_v. in causes pending before him,
award writs of subpoena. for witnesses into other counties of this state.

where justices‘
writ shaiirun.
R. S. 229, Q2.

II. Process.
10. That all the precepts, summons, warrants, writs and other process of
said court for the trial of small causes, shall be tested the day on which

Process, when
tested and signed.

they are respectively issued, and shall he signed ((1) and sealed (4?) by the
justice who issued the same.

11. That if any justice of the peace shall sign his name to any blank
summons or warrant, and allow any constable or other person to ﬁll up
the blank or blanks in the said process, without the special direction of the
said justice, and in his presence, and shall afterwards issue the said process,
or suffer the same to be served, such justice shall be deemed guilty of misbe
havior in office, and on conviction thereof shall forfeit and pay the sum of
ﬁfty dollars, to be recovered by action of debt, by any person who shall
prosecute for the same, in any court having jurisdiction of the ease, one
bail‘ for the use of the person prosecuting, and the other half for the town
ship in which such justice shall reside.
12. That the service of. any summons or warrant which shall ha\'c been
issued by the justice as aforesaid in blank, and afterwards ﬁlled up by the
constable or other person, without the special direction of the justice as afore
said, shall be taken and considered to be altogether void, and any judgu ent
(ni This incindesjurisdiction ofn bond given by a defendant

for his appearance, when arrested on a warrant.

lei If the pﬂriles "air
Vmivb TIVPT V. In!/Irlon, '3

lr'l'ﬂ!rl'1l v.

Justice not to issue
blank writs.
R.
229, Q 5.

Penalty.

When process
void.
ib., Q 6.

to come loiriai," it is suﬂlcient.
l. H0.

(Ill siizninz the lnitinls ofhis Christian name-and his siirnahie
in i'uli. is no error. ii"no<l v. Filhinn, 4 Znh. 33. B38. So. signing
J‘. P. to his name annexed to an affidavit is sulllcienr. Scudrlcr

Allm. 2 /Fr. 74. The orizinai act waslimited tn hnnds, &c., “ for
the payment of any sum of monry " and s. bzulm-d_v bond szlven

to indemnify ii. township. &c., was held not in he within his
jurir-diction. Roll v. .‘i{ru-wrll, 2 Soulh. '-I03. Sec. 166. p0x!.|{iv0s
jurisdiction upon a bond whereon iarlue more than $i00 hut. Ir--n

v. Lbrg/rll, 5 Hal. 3-I0. An error which is the result ofau over
sight of the justice, which might have been cured by amend
ment. and has caused no injury, is no ground for reversal.
ii'ri//ht V. Jfnran, l-i l'r. 49.

than $200. although the penalty named therein exceeds $200.
Andrrron \'. Rme. 2'2 Fr. 47l.

(r) It must be sealed.

(h) See Penna. R. R. Cb. v. Society, -¢c., 10 Vr. 400.

l
i

Veal v. Brown, Pm. '72.

1866

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

Process to compel

appearance.

Wheri warrant
may issue.

or other proceeding afterwards had or taken, in consequence of such service,
or founded thereupon, shall be void and oi‘ no effect.
13. That the ﬁrst process to compel appearance shall be a summons or
warrant in the nature of a cnpias ad respondendum; provided, that no war
rant shall issue against the body of any female; the summons may be
used in any case whatsoever; the warrant shall only he used in the fol
lowing cases :
I. Where the defendant is not a freeholder and resident of the county
in which process shall issue, and where the action being founded upon
contract express or implied, due proof is made on oath or aﬂirmation to
the satisfaction of the justice, of the amount of the debt or damages
claimed, and of such other facts and circumstances as would warrant a

justice of the supreme court in making an order to hold to bail in pursu
ance of the ﬁﬁty-eighth section of an act entitled “ An act to regulate the
practice of courts of law.”
II. Where the defendant is not a frecholder and resident of the county
in which such process shall issue, and where, the action being founded
upon tort, due proof is made on oath or aﬂirmation to the satisfaction of

thejustice, of the amount of the damages claimed, and of such other facts

Justice to make
order.

and circumstances as would, by the practice of the supreme court, warrant
a justice thereof in making an order to hold to bail in a case of tort.
III. If the defend'.-int be a freeholder and resident of the county in
which such process shall issue, and due proof is made on oath or ai'ﬁrma
tion to the satisfaction of such justice, that the defendant has assigned or
disposed of, or is about to assign or dispose of,all his land lying in said
county with intent to defraud his creditors, then such defendant may he
held to bail in like manner, and upon the same proof that would warrant
his arrest in case he were not :1. i‘reei10lder and resident in the county in
which such process shall issue. (a)
14. That u|)0n proof made as aforesaid the justice shall make and sub
scribe an order that a warrant issue against the defendant for such amount
as such proof shall justify and require; but before said warrant issue, such
order and the afﬁdavit or aiiidavits upon which the order is founded, shall
be ﬁled by said justice. (b)

Defendant may
apply to set aside
order upon which

warrant issued.

15. That if the defendant be arrested upon such warrant, he may, at any
time before the trial of the cause. make application to a justice of the
supreme court, or to the law judge, if any, of the court of common pleas
of the county in which such process issued, or to any supreme court
commissioner, to set aside said order, the defendant having ﬁrst given
reasonable notice to the plaintifff of such application, and the giving bond
or entering into recognizance in manner hereinafter directed shall be no
waiver of the defenda.nt’s right to make such application; and if_such
justice of the supreme court, law judge or commissioner, shall deem the
proof made, insuiiicient to warrant an arrest, he may order that the order
made by the justice be set aside; such order setting aside the justice’s
order shall thereupon operate as a discontinuance of the suit in which such
warrant issued; the bond or recognizance, if any, shall become void, and

the plaiutiﬂ‘ shall be forever thereafier barred from proceeding against
the body of the defendant for the same cause of action, but he may pro
ceed against the defendant by summons in the same manner as if no other
proceeding had been instituted.
Justice to furnish
copy oi‘ order.

16. That the order made by the justice of the supreme court, law judge
or commissioners, shall be ﬁled with the justice who issued the warrant,

(41) A freeholder resident in the county is exempt from arrest
in cases of fraudulent debt, unless the Justice udjudges that he

is satisﬁed the plaintiﬂ will be in danger of losing his dent.
Bmv.-klmu v. Hutcltimun, 8 V1-. 18.1 Query—Whether injustice
can issue a warrant in a onse of tort.

Neighbour v. Trimmer, 1

H01‘. 58. Any irreirularliy in imuing it is waived by an appear
nnre.

Idoulkra v. Young, l Znb. 438.

And cured by atrial. Dul

lm v. Hmary. Pen. "978. A person arrested on awarrantunder
this section, may set up that he was, at the date oi the order, a

freehnider and resident of the county, an a defense: such a
defense is in the nature oi uplea tot 9 Jurisdiction in abate
-ment nfthe action.

(Dole A‘ Thylor v. Plftver, H Vt‘. H12.

0h_|ec

tions l0 the suﬂlciency of the proof ofa plea of privilege must

be made at the trial, or they will be regarded as having been
waived. S. G, i5 V1‘. 212.

(b) A defendant may apply to set aside the warrant for the
insufficiency of the atﬂdavits on which the urder to arrest was
made. But he cannot offer evidence to show that he made no
such representations, and that he was perfectly responsible for
all debts he might incur. (bu v. Cliver. 14 Vr. 182, distin

guished. Stun v. Vnmiewntc-r, ll! V1-. 67. Where the order for
the warrant fails to slate the amount for which the warrlnt is
no be issued, and the order for bail supplied the omission, the
two together \vili he a substantial compliance with the statute.
Inﬂux v. Praz, H Vr. 667.

JUS'l‘ICES' COURTS.

1867

-and such justice shall furnish certiﬁed copies tbe.reof to the parties or their
agents on request.

17. That the summons shall be made returnable between the hours of nine
o'clock in the forcnoon and three o'clock in the afternoon, both inclusive,

and shall specify a certain place (a) and time, (1)) not less than five, (e) nor
tnore than iifteen (d) da_vs from the date of such process. and shall be
served at least live days bei'ore the time of appearance mentioned therein,
by reading the same to the defendant. and delivering to him a cop_v
thereof. (e) if he or she shall be found, and if not found, by leaving a copy
‘t-hereof at his or her house or place of abode. in presence of some person
of the family, of the age of fourteen years, who shall be ini'ormed of the

Summons, when
returnable and
how served.
ll. S. 2'29, 3 8.
Amended.

contents thereof. (__r'/) and the constable serving such summons shall, on the

oath of his oilice. indorse thereupon the time and manner he c.\'ecttte(l the
same. and sign his name thereto. (ll)

18. That if the defendant be a body politic or corporate, the summons
may be served on the president, treasurer, cashier or clerk of said corpora
'tion if i'ound, and if not found on any of the directors or managers thereof
in the manner hereinabove directed. (1')
19. That the said justice shall enter in the bod_v of every summons or
warrant, the sum demanded (and indorse the satne, with

costs. on the

-said summons or warrant), which he shall issue by virtue of this act; and
if the defendant think proper to pay such debt. damages or demand, with
costs, so entered or indorsed, without any further proceedings in the cause,
‘then it shall be lawful for the constable to receive the same. and his receipt
-shall be a i'ull discharge to such defendant from such debt, damages or
demand, and costs-ai'oresaid ; and if any constable shall not pay the money

so by him received for such debt. damages or demand, to the justice issuing
such process, or to the plaintifff in the said process. or his legal representa
tive. within iifteen days after be shall have received the same. then such
-constable shall be liable to pay to such plaintifff or his legal representative,
the amount of the said debt, damages or demand, with interest. to be
recovered by action of debt, with double costs.
Z0. That the warrant commanding the defendant to be arrested, shall be
returnable forthwith after service thereof; and the constable serving said
warrant shall, according to the tenor thereof, fortinvith convey the said
defendant before the justice who issued the same, who shall thereupon, at

Return indorsed.

How served on
corporation.
lb , 5 76.
Amended.

Sum indorsed on

warrant : tfpaid,
defendant dis
charged.
Ib., Q l3.

Liability oi‘
constable.

Proceedings upon
\\'!II'|‘8.fll.

lb., 5 1'2.
Amended.

his discretion, either cause the said defendant to enter into recognizance

in the manner hereinafter mentioned, or on neglect or refusal, shall com
ta) The township in which the]ustice’s oﬁlce is situated may
be omitted. Johnsrm v. Holmcuw, Prn. ‘[34. The place must be
designated in the summons. Layton v. Cooper, 1\‘?1l. '62.
('1) The return day being in _/t{)u1"'.s is not an error. Uooper v.

Botmts, l Har. 353. .-‘ilaires v. Smith, 1 Hor. 360.

To appear

" at i2 o’cIock in the afternoon," is bad. Ross v. Ward, l Hm‘.
23. To appear at two o'clock
noon, is defective. (‘am
man v. I’t?rrinr:, -I Ifal. 253.
(1-J In computing the ﬁve days. the da_v of the service or of
the appearance should be excluded and the other included.

Day v. Hall. 7 Hal. 203.

It must be ﬁve full days.

Pcdrick v.

-Winn), Hm. 957.

ta) A summons issued June lith. returnable July 11th, is
erroneous. Rntloon v. iVrbb, Pen. W108.
(e) " Served by delivering a copy to the defendant ” is defec
tive. Rape v. Titus. 6 Hal. 314. "Served the summons on the
defendant by offering to read the same to him, but he would
not stay to hear it," is good service. Slaght. v. R0hbin.s,l Hr.

3&0.

That he read it to the defendant, but omitting to state the

delivery oi acopy, is bad. Rosa v. ii'ard,i Har. '23. "Served
on the defendant by his reading it himself," is bud. A;/res v.
.S‘mm/zr, 2 Mouth. "812.
“Served this summons June 2, I837. on

G. I-‘.." is defective.

It should be by reading it to him. Afoore

V. Jlillrr. 1 Har. 233.
(0) A copy can only be left when the defendant cannot be

found in the county.

Cooper v. Rnbffls, 1 Har. 853.

Gardner v.

Small, 2 Hm-. i62. Readimz it to the again! of the defendant, and
ieavinz a copy at his store, is not aiegal service. Penny v. Har
risrm, ‘Z Hr. ‘Z4 S0, at the place Of abode. Pbllu-'nm.1 V. Prrlcirls,
3 hr. 435. But if defendant direct the constable where to leave
it. he can take no exception ifsuch place is not his actual abode.
Taylor v. (foolr. Chm! 54. " Reading it to a person over the age

of fourteen." is inaufiicient. Iblhemm v. Perkins, 3 Gr. -i-‘ll-5. So,
"served by reading the contentsofthe within. to the families of
the defendants, at their place of abode.” Ballinnrr v. S‘hr1‘ror|.
2 fir. 1-H. So, " served the 28d..by copy."
Mulfortl v. Pr‘r1‘t'1u?.
Pen. N74. Ifserved on defendant's wife, it must he at his rem‘
dmcr.
Ropers v. Jannan. Pen. *=527. lfnot his wife and living
elsewhere. service is defective. l'lge'1's v. Ziftxmrp/, H11. ‘F909.
Or, the housekeeper of defendant. Dc.rprr'mur v. Barber, Mn.

=3‘l04l. S0. “ by copy lei't with the wife of defendant,” with"
out informinz her of the contents. I. boll v. 1)”-km", l South
*il9. Or, leaving a copy at the defendant's house without stat"
int; that the person with whom it was ieit, was of his family»
and informed of the contents. Jftnﬂrtt v. Jiufrhinson, 1 Hat‘. 46
A mistake in the copy oi‘ a summons. stating the hour of

appearance to be 10 A. >1. instead oi“: 1». M}, is not ground for re
versing the judgment. where the defendant did not appear at
any time or show that he has been injured by the mistake.
Titus v. ii-"hitm'y, 1 Har. 85.
(hi Return on a summons "lawfully served," is lnsnfheien t.
Boy/tan v. Jfopper, Pm. *95. So "served the thirtieth day of
January." Layton v. (boper. Prn.*6'.‘.. so, " duly served." Zane

v. I’i'sxant, Hrn. *8l9.

Budd V. ﬂfarrlrt. 1 South. *2-I8. S0,

" served." Strtltltforvl v. Fe'rrlx, 1 South. *l08. so. “ served on
mu’. of the defendants," not naming him. .-‘ifattuclc v. Layman,
l'e'n. *993. Where there are two or more deiendants and service
on some of them only. the justice cannot. proceed unless the
cottstable's return shows that those not served could not be
found. ]~‘m'tl \'. .1!'ttrt.¢or|, l South. *9-'3. Stttlts v. Outcalt, i Hal.
130. “The other defendant out ofthe county," had, because be
might have an abode therein ; hut if not, then return should so
state. . om-r v ,‘\Iillrr, 1 Hm-. 233. "Served b_v leaving a copy
with the wife 0fJ. '1‘.. one of the defendants," good. but not to
sustain a judgment aaainst two. Olu-er v. Howell, 2 South. #581.
An ap;x:u1-anee b_v the defendant without objection, cures any
irregularity in the process. Halsey v. Nutntarv. Pen. *3'.£9.
Cook v Hmd1'u'ks0n. Pen. #343. Blllllf v. M'(n‘t-in. i Smltlv. ’*‘248.
A3/1'es v. Somyze. ‘.3 South. ‘F812. Murat v. Hutchinson, i Hm".
46. ('(i_ﬂ'ortl v. Frankfortl, 8 l'r. 152. And all (T(UUll7‘)llIlt.‘H( at
his request. I)onght_|/ v. Jones, Pen. ii‘-653. And atrzal.
v.
Cmnplmll. (.‘o.re 92. 1)allax v. Hr'ndr'_1/. Prn. ""973.
ti) See, nntn, p. 9'24, note (hi. The term manager is used in
this section as synonymous with director, and indicates an oili
eer exercising the same functions. Prmtn. 'R. R. On. v. Bram--H,
is i"r. 276. service on a superintendent oi a railroad, whether
general or oi‘ a division, not good. I0. Service on the ticket
atzent of a railroad company is not a service on a re resentative
oi‘ the company, within the meaning ofthis sect on. Drmm.
It’. R. Co. V. Krellzrnan. 28 i'1~. 60.

l-868

JUSTICES' COURTS.
mand the said constable to convey the said defendant to the jail of the

When trial to be
had. '

county, to be there detained in custody until time may be had i'or the hear
ing or trial of the cause, not exceeding three da_vs l'rom the time of the
return of the said warrant, or such justice may direct the said constable

to hold the said defendant in custody, until the plaintiff shall be notiﬁed
and have time to appear and proceed to such hearing or trial ; (a) and the
constable who served the said warrant as aforesaid, shall, on the oath of‘

his otllce,indorse thereon the execution of the same and sign his name
Bow defendant
may he dis
charged.

May give bond.

Form of.

thereto; provzded ulwa-_z/s, that nothing in this act contained shall be con

strued to prevent the constable i'rom discharging from arrest any person
arrested either on mesne process or process of execution, in pursuance of
an act cntitled,"An act abolishing imprisonment on civil process in cer
tain cases ; ” and provided also, that if any person or persons whatsoever,
shall hereafter be arrested by virtue of such warrant, it shall be lawful for
the constable who served the same, to permit the defendant to enter into
bond to the plaiutiﬁ‘, with a good and suiiicient freeholder, resident in the
county, to the amount of the debt or damages and costs indorsed on the
warrant. for his, her or their appearance on the day and hour mentioned
in the bond, not more than eight days (excluding Sundays) from the ser
vice of the warrant; the bond to be entered into by the defendant. shall
be in the i'orm and to the effect following, to wit: We, A. B. and C. D., do

hereby acknowledge ourselves indebted to E. F. in the sum of
to
be paid to E. F. on the following conditions: that if the said A. B. shall
be and appear before
-, one of the justices of the peace of
—,
on the
— day of -—-— at —_— o’clock
— noon, and answer
unto the complaint of the said E. F., then this bond to he void, or else to
be and remain in full force and virtue; in witness whereof we have here

Duly of constable.

Becognlzance and
form of.

B. s. 219, z 14.

unto, set our hands and seals, the
day of
- in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
-; sealed and delivered
in the presence of G. H., I. K., signed A. B. and C. D.; which bond the
said constable is hereby ordered and directed, when taken. to deliver to
the justice on the return of the warrant, to be by him ﬁled in his oﬁice to
and for the use of the plaintifff, for which service the constable shall be
entitled to thirty-ﬁve cents costs, to be paid by the defendant, and not
recoverable by him from the plaintifff; and in all cases, the said constable
shall attend at the said justice‘s court, on the day and hour mentioned in
said bond, to he there and then ready to secure and take into his custody
the said defendant; and if the said justice shall not be found at his dwell
ing or usual place of holding trials. the defendant shall be permitted to
renew his bond, with sureties as aforesaid, for his appearance at some
future day not exceeding ten. (b)
21. That the recognizance directed in the twentieth section of this act, shall
be entered into by the defendant, with at least one surety, having suﬂi
cicnt frceh0ld,and residing in the c0unt_\', to the plaintifff in the said action,
in the amount of the demand speciﬁed in the warrant,according to the
effect and meaning of the following form, that is to say :
-- county. to wit:
Whereas, A. B. hath been arrested and is now in custody, by virtue of
a warrant issued by C. D.. one of the justices of the peace in and for the
said county, at the suit of E. F. in an action of
for the sum of
--; now be it remembered. that on the
- day of, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and

-, the said A. B.

and G. I-1., of the county aforesaid, personally appeared before me the said
(nu If the plnintlif discharges the defendant from arrest on
a warrant. on defendant's promise to appear and he (‘inc-‘H not,

the plaintifff cannot take Judgment. .-|!l0ﬂ_l/Illﬂil-K, 2 Hal. 1'20.
If the defendant enters into bond and falls toappear at the day,
the justice cannot proceed in his absence or render judgment
mlainst him. fhnnnrm v. ]\'(IIlll0l]7Il, 2 Hal. 136. 5:», on an

m(imu~nmen1, the defendant must give n like recognizance, hut
the constable will not be liable for an escape. unless the jllsiica
urrlrr the defendant to do so. Dunhmn v. Solmnon, l Hm-. 50.

(I1) Such hond is good ii’ taken in the amount oi’ the rl.c!1!nnl_\',
and not of the debt and costs. Day v. Hall. 7 Iiul. ‘.‘0.'-l. if the
defendant appears and answers, it is no hreach oi’ his bond ifhe
runs away after Judgment rendered.

-5'//lalley v. Vrrrmrrlr n, '.'

South. Mil. 1-Inf:-11 v. Gale", Hal. Di//. 128. i 3. Suit cannot he
bromzht on the recognizance until alter judument ohlalned by
the plalniiﬁ‘ against the defendant In the original suit. Oilrrr
v. Jlou-rll, 2 smllll. *.15l. In an action on the bond it is neces
sary for the pluintiii l0 allege that he ﬁled his stale of demand
or appeared nnd prosecuted his action at the time mentioned in
the bond. llmrlil V. BnIrlu'In.v.4 I~I'nr.l~i-1. Judzment (‘RHIIOL
he enfered jointly against deieudant and his snreI_v', the latter
has n right to he heard. J!-. |l‘hnr/rr v. Dr Kay, Pm #910.
S111/rr v. l'r;m~l|/vs. I'rn. *l04l. The conslafile cannot take a

bond to him.~'elf for the defendant's appearance.

Wood, Pm. *ss.

Lndlumv.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

1869

C. D. and jointly and severally acknowledged themselves to owe to the
said E. F. the sum of
to be made. and levied of their several goods
and chattels, upon condition, that ii‘ the said A. B. shall not appear on the
day of
next, before the said justice, or if he does appear
and is condemned in the said action, at the suit of the piaintiii', that he
shall pay the costs and condemnation money, or surrender him up to the
constables, on the execution to be thereafter issued against him, on the day

judgment shall be obtained, and if he fails so to do, that he the said G. H.
will pay the said costs and condemnation money for him, and sutfer judg
ment to be entered up against him for the same.
Acknowledged the day and year last abovesaid, before me C. D., one
of the justices of the peace in and for the said county of
; and every
justice of the peace is hereby empowered and directed to take such recog
nizance, which shall remain with such justice, for the beneﬁt of the piaintiif

in the suit.

‘

III. Pleading.

22. [Amended by Sec. 156, posh]
23. That the plaintiii in such suit shall, on or before the return day of the
said summons, or on the return of the warrant. or at the time of appear
ance specified in the recognizance, deliver or cause to be delivered, to the
justice before whom the action is to be tried, a copy of his or her account

When demand
and plea ﬂied.
Ib., Q I6.

Amended.

or state of demand against the defendant, and in default thereof, the said

plautilf shall be non-suited with costs; (a) and if the defendant have any
account or demand against the plaintili, he shall be permitted to discount
or set olf the same against the account, debt or demand of such plaintifff;
hut such copy of his or her account, or state oi’ his or ller demand, so

intended to be set -off, shall be deli\'cred to the said justice, on or before
the return day of the summons, or on or bei'orc the day to which the hear
ing shall be ﬁrst adjourned, or if on a warrant, then at tllc time of hearing
of the cause ; (b) and in default thereof the said account or demand shall
not be received in evidence on the trial of the said cause; but if the said

warrant shall not have been executed three days prior to the day of hear
ing, then the said defendant, if he or she have any account or demand to
set oﬁ', and will enter into recognizance. as directed by the twentieth section
of this act, shall be allowed further time, not exceeding three (lays, to

deliver to the said justice such copy of his or her account or state of
demand as aforesaid.
24. That if any defendant neglect or refuse to deliver a copy of his or her
account or state of demand. against such plaintiff. he or she shall fore\'el'
thereafter be precluded from having or maintaining any action for such
account or demand or from setting oil‘ the same in any future suit; pro

Defendant, when
precluded.

Ib., Q l7.

eitled alurrlg/s, that where the balance found to be due to such defendant
exceeds the sum of one hundred dollars, then the said defendant shall not

be precluded from recovering his or her account or demand against such
plaiutiﬁ', in any other court of record having cognizance of the same. (c)
ta) Justice must non-suit if no state nl’ demand be ﬂied. Sand
Iorrl v. Homvr, Pm. '90. Sloan v. Holland, Pm. '1-ii. Layton
v, Lhrmzm, Pm. ‘I63. Gable v. Snow-1‘, lien. *-407 (n). Or, it is

zronnd of reversal on CL’TU01‘fli‘l.

South v. fbomey. Pen. #98.

Gratin v. Whilnlcrr, Pm. *6“). lﬁarnpue v. (‘r(|ne, Pen. '95-5.
Addie v. Eran-I. Pen. ‘H2. It cannot be altered or remedied by
subsequently ﬁling a bill of nrticulars. V<mlr|‘1'I¢ v. Little, Pm.
‘I776. Bblchvcll v. Leslilr, i A
th. ‘H2. It must he ﬂied hefore

an adjournment.

Hunt v. Strum. 2 South. ‘-195.

Unless the

justice la absent on the return day oi’ the summons, or the de

fendant adlournu the muse. Shreeca: v. LI1-osml. Pm. '247. The
transcri I need not show that it was ﬂied, if it appears from the
proceed ngs and papers in the cause, or may talrly be presumed.
gygt v. Bonltam, 2 Har. 350. See Van Dyke v. Baxluio, 3 Gr.

(bl No written plea la necessary except in n case oi‘ set-0ﬂ'.
Bray v. Van Note, Pen. N43. Phillips v. ﬂ!c0utl/mph, Rm. '69.
Haws v. Munprln. Pm. "L56. Freeman v. Iilarah, ﬁn. *-i73.

Mints: v. White. Ptn. '531. Ivtns v. Ellis, Pen. *5-18. Sniith v.
Van Hmwm, 4 Hal. 381. It must contain the items of the

ment in the supreme court.

Pelt v. Phillipa, -4 Zob. 560. \Vheu a plea of set oil. claiminz n.
balance of more than $200, is tendered in ti _iustice'e\ court. the
justice should overrule the plea for want oi’ jurisdiction, and
proceed with the trial oi’ plalntiti"s demand. Ctnnry v. .\’eu
nxryvr, 22 Vr. 299. A stipulation between parties lo an action
that the cause shall stand adjourned to B. certain day without
prejudice to either party, does not cnnluln a waiver ol’ the statu

ilJl'_V requirement. that ii the det'euda.nt have n set-nil‘ he shall
deliver it to the justice on or before the day Lt) which the hear
ing shall be ﬁrst adjourned. Dr Molt v. 1h_r/Lor, 22 i'r. SU7. The
right to set oi? one judznient against another is the exercise of
a purely equitable jurisdiction, which has not been given by
statute to ajuslice of the pence. Flavelt v. Brltton. ‘Z7 V1". 218.
(cl That defendant is barred from asubsvnuent action. see
Rinhlrr \-. i'un Rlprr, Pm. ‘WIS. }{e'nr_1/ v. Jlfillumt. 1 Gr. ‘.166.
Johnson v. I‘\"Il1l|'7|_/IIOTI, 3 (Jr. 188. See Svhrnrk v. -S'che\nr'Ir, 5 Ilnl.

wmtlnt.
Walton v. Ltpp-tnmu, Pen. 'l6l.
.iIontuonv'r_u v.
Snowliill, Prn. ‘Z61. Doughty v. Jones. Pen. ‘F653. lilcffm-mirk

276.

v. Brmkjletd. I South. ‘B9. Lacey v. Chttim, 2 South. N90. And
be ﬂied in due time.
Aletamler v. Mr-Ctermon, Pen. '36-t.
Lacey v. ovum-, Z South.‘-ll). Infra, Sec. 32. Without a set-oﬂ‘,

(bJ'r55.

defendant can recover nothing but costs.

Robbins v. Eakin,

Plm. "745. Filing a set-oi!‘ does not preclude the defendant
from relying on any other defense.
v. Combs, 7 Hal. 188.
A Judgment in I Justice’: court may be set oi! against a judg

Cm-e ads. .5‘/nte llanlr, 3 lint. l7’.’.

In trespass belore a justice. if the defendant admit»-i some of
the trespnsees he will he entitled to costs on those issues and
may set them 0ﬂ‘uzuinst the nlnintiﬂ'sjndgment therein. i’un

S0. If the

latter cannot a

ialutiﬂ allows n. set-off to the defendant, the
erwards sue therefore.

The plulnlljf is not barred.

Johnmn v. fﬁnlbnuyyh,

Srno:-Ir v. T'l7‘0"/I-”lll0I'lO7l,

8 Hal. ‘Z16. If Fl defendant omit to ﬁle his claim lo a set-oﬂ‘, he
may neverthelesul recover the sum due him in any other court
having cognizance oi‘ the same. provided he prove therein that
the balance due him exceeds .100.
Stptey v. Wtus, 18 Vr. 187.

Otancy V. l\r'eu1rteye'r, 22 V1‘. 301.

JUS"ICES’ CQURTS.

1570
Title to lands
pleaded.
Ib., Q -to
Amended.

25. That when, in any action to be brought by virtue of this act the
dt.-fcndant shall as justiiication, plead title to any real estate in himself or"
another, under whom

he acted or entered, such defendant shall commit

the said plea to writing, and having sigiitrtl the same shall deliver such
pica to the said justice, who shall conntersign and deliver it to the plain
titf; and thereupon it shall and may be lawful to and for such plaiutiif to
commence and prosecute his action against such defendant in the supreme
court, or in the circuit court of the county wherein such action shall have
been commenced, and if in such action the plaintiit recover any damages,
he shall be entitled to and recover therewith all costs of suit. ((1.)
Eﬂect ofplea.

Ib., qn.

Bond required in
such case.

1b., 5 -1'2.
Amended.

Condition.

26. That on every trial so to be had in such action where title is pleaded,
the plea so as aforesaid signed by the said defendant, shall be conclusive
evidence that such defendant relied on title by way ofjustiiication.
27. That the justice to whom a plea of j ustiiication is tendered as afore
said, shall. bcfore he receives such plea, require and obtain from the defend
ant a bond, with one good surety, beinga freeholder in the said county,in the
penalty of one hundred dollars, executed to the plaintfif, and conditioned,
that ii‘ the said plaintifff shall commence such action in the supreme court,
or in the circuit court of the county wherein the justice holds his court,
within three months thereafter, the said defendant will appear thereto,

within twenty (lays after thc writ to be thereupon issued against him shall
be returned served, and shall pay such costs as may be awarded against
him in thc said action; and in case such plea is tendered and the defend
ant shall not forthwith enter into such bond to the plaintifff’, the said
justice shall proceed in thc same manner as if such plea had not been
tendered.
IV. Trial.
Proceeding if de
fendant does not

28. That if the defendant does not appear at the time and place expressed
in the summons or rcco_<_rnizancc. and no suflicicnt reason shall be assigned

appear.
R. 5. 229, Q; 9, 15.

by the justice why the defendant docs not appear, and if, where the pro

Consolidated.

cess is :1 summons. it shall i'urt.hcr appear by the return indorsed thereon
that the summons was duly served, then thc said justice may proceed to
hear and dctcrniinc the cause in the absence of such defendant. (b)

\\'hen cause shall
be heard.
Ib., Q 18.

29. 'l‘hat when the parties in any suit to he instituted l.l_\' virtue of this
act shall appear at thc placc and thc time expressed in the summons. or at
thc return of the warrant, or at the time of appearance mentioned in the
recognizance, the said justice shall proceed to hear or examine their
respective allegations and proofs, unless he shall think it proper to adjourn
the trial. (c)

(1.1) A plea of title may be ﬁled after the return day, but not
after the day i0 which the cause may be tirst adjourned. Slum
non v. Flood, I Gr. 301. It may be illt‘(i in an action oft1'm~r1".
i'unne.~t.q v. .'\'u]i¢', 2 South. #683. Hoe ll'ilxon v. Clm'k,l South.
*3'.'9 The bond should be legibly written and free irom abbre
viations or erasures
h'i'uu_'rri v. Blunt, 3 Gr. 460. A plea of a
pr|'i'-alr wny is a plea. oi title. Rumiolp/1 v. .'i!rml_!‘ord, I Hm-. 2'26.
Hat:'k v. -S'ru_01"ai\e.s. 5 V1". 355. A right of private way by pre
scription or by grant, ifwrong, must be demurred to. Bruin v.

.5'u_i/t.lI=r, l 1'1‘. 56.

A plea Oi‘ tt public way is not It plea of title.

C'haml.=¢1's v. l~F’amlmtmh.~i l)ul"h. 530. Brain v. .S"'n_|/1141', 1 Vr.
58. i'<twgrr v. iifanniny, 1 Vr. 18:2. The defendant is conﬁned in
the supreme court to his plea oi‘ title alone. and cannot plead
not g11il!_u or lirensr. Jmrlicrs of Dorrr v .lI1'l"urlon, 2 I-‘r. 471.
Brain v. Sn]/rlcr, 1 l'r. 56. ii'r.\-rr1'w"Il v. Jlnrintts. Prn. W393. if
the plaintifftlctnatnis $30 (ianiitgt-s before ihc justice and $100 in
the supreme court, or use and occupation for live years below,
and use anti occupation generally above. defendant is not con
ﬁned to his plea of title. .s'm-(ilk-rr v. ii'hilr, 6 Hal. 87. ("ham
hm-.s v. |i'll)7lh()Il{l/t, 4 /mu-h. 5-'.i(l_ The declaration in the supreme
court should set (ml the description oi‘ the land b_v metes
and bounds. Elle! v. Pullrn, 7 llul. 357. The plaintiii’ may
nmr rtssignt, but cannot allege the trespass to have been
committed in a different township. Tlmlull v. 'I'i1ulaI!,S1u~n.

1-i6. Proof of p0s.vr.w.wion by plaintifff is unin~ces.-ary,bemtuse
admitted by defendant's pleading title. ApplrI;_1/ v. Ohm-r,
1 Hm". 336.
Under llh. trn. the defendant need not show
title to any part except that on which the trespass is alleged to
have been committed. l’hi'llip.w v. Phillips, l Zoo. 42. Nor is
defendant limited to proof of freehold title. but he may prove
any riizht to enter and have posscs.~<ion
L'am,»_rb Id v. Jolmmn,
1 Znh. 93. So, he may plead title below in A., nnd above in B.
Phillips v. Kent, Spmt. 686. Or, rely on title by way of _inatib'ca
tion. [law/: v. S1 (l_l!l':|l‘('.\’, 5 I’r. 355. .I"m~m of pleading. 1!».
A replication thatzhe piaintitf was actually in posse-ssioii, and
that tho right of possession was out of the defendant, or tho!-'6

under whom he entered, is good.

1’/tillips v. 1136111, 3 zoo. 155.

The supreme court will notice the fact that the suit was begun
before a justice, upon the plea being produced countetsigned,
&c.. although not referred t0 in the pleadings, so as to award
costs.
Vim. Pl?! V. I’Inlli}».~', -i Zub. -"J60. If it flcrettiltlnl. HUI.
having ﬂied a plea of title and given bond, at the trial oifers to
prove ieirai title within himseli or a tnird person, under whom
he justiiies, the justice should refuse the offer and proceed to
determine the case. Edy/or v. .-lnm.-.~, is Vr.-165
ifthe offer
is to prove absence of title nn-rely in the plaintifff and such
evidence is I'vlP\’8l1I, the jtlsiicc should cli:-unleci the case i'or
want of jurisdiction.
Ill. In an action oi trespass, the defend
ant need. by formal plea and tender of bond. arrest the juris

diction of the justice only in those cases in which, for his own
acts, he seeks legal jnstitication b_v the establishment of title in
himself or in another, under whom he claims. in respect to the
real property in controversy. Ely v. .\'(-hrm-k, ":3 i'r. ttii. in
all other cases. where the decision ofa question of title becomes
an essential feature of the plaintili"s Case, the justice l'iili!~t dis
miss tho suit \vithout requiring the statutory plea. notwith
standing the oift-red proot may have emanated from the
defendant. 1!».
(hi There must be it trial and legal evidence oi plaintiﬁ"5
claim produced thc justice cannot L'i\'P judgment a'.:.-dn.-t the
defendant by default. .S'u_v/tlcr V. Jﬁumnrl. 1'1'u.*S7. Zone v.

I’l.~..mnl, Pen. ‘$319.

Cboprr \'. .i[mlurn. 1’r'n. ’**-'i1l0

lI'/iilr" v.

(‘rmnnu r, Pr-n. *-519. 11' 1-ilanr v. /Mnif/8. ["11 ‘F551. 1‘r’m'.¢on
v. Bri_v!_(7S, l\rn.=i'ii;!i. Crunr v. Orunr, I'rn. '-'*‘41'.! (H). (mic v. Hill,
1*rn,*‘-<-iii (oi. Clarke v. ('lm'lrr. Pen. “T24. _l!n1'11/iy V. Dm'i.v, 1‘on.
*5~l3. Jdrmus v. 1)]/1'7‘, 1’ut."1"“.l9i). Oulcult V. Rankin, 2 I.1'1'.33.

The justice tmnnot proceed in tho absence oi the plaintifff.
}I'|[lil[l7_I/ v. I/?1'{l!, Pen. M53
i'oil v. ll'riy/hl, Pen. ~@=6i'-ll. Curio
lirr v. 1)()il{!/I/_I/, l Hol. ‘.327. Sec Kl: uwrri \'. i\'¢‘lII‘K. 7 V1‘. I73. He
must be present when the verdict is rendered. Hun! v. Yomm,
2 Noll!/0. ~"~"8l3.

if‘) The justice cannot dismiss the suit after trial. He should
givejudgment tor one of the parties. Milln‘ v. Jlillcr, 1 Gr. 165.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

1871

30. That any justice of the peace. before whom a suit is instituted by
virtue of this act. may, to prevent l'rattd or surprise on either side, or on
reasonable cattse being assigned by or in behalf of either party, adjourn the
trial to any time not exceeding thirty days from the return day of the
summons, or, if tlte process be by warrant, frotn the time when the same
was returned,or from the time of appearance mentioned in the recogni

Trial, when and
how adjourned.
1b., 5 20.

zance. except where the applicant for such adjournment shall make oatlt

or affirmation that he cannot sai'ely go to trial for want of a material wit
ness, whom he shall name, being absent and out of this state, and then
such jttstice may postpone the trial to any time not exceeding three
mouths frotn the return day of the summons; provirlcd, that if the pro

cess is by warrant, the def'endant shall, previous to such adjournment, if
required by the justice, enter into recognizance to the plaintiff, as in and
by this act is before directed; prouitlwl (tlso, that if either of the parties
to a suit hereafter brougltt before a justice of the peace cannot, on the day

of the ﬁrst adjournment, safely go to trial for the want of a material
witness in the cause, whom he shall name, and thinks he can produce on
‘a future day, and shall file an affidavit thereof with the jttstice, then the
justice may adjourn the trial to any future day, not more than thirty days
from the day of such adjournment, on payment of the cost by the party
who makes application for the same. (a)
l 31. That all adjottrnments shall be tnade to some hour between the
Hour of'adjourn
ment.

hours of nine o'clock in the forenoon and three o’clock in the afternoon,

P. L. 1858, p. 49, Q1.
Amended.

both inclusive, unless the respective parties mutually agree that the cause
be adjourned to some other hour.
32. That if the defendant ﬁle his set-off on the day to which the hearing
shall be ﬁrst adjourned, he shall then consent to an adjournment of said

Adjournment in
(‘rue of set-oﬁ'
ﬂied.
P. L. 1873. P. l19,Q 3.
Ainentled.

"hearing if the plaintiﬂ' request the same, and shall also pay the witness fees

of said plaintifff for that day.

33. That in every action, it shall and maybe lawfttl for either of the
and before the said justice has proceeded to inquire into the merits of the

Jury demanded
and when,
R. S. 229. 3'22.
Amended.

cause, (b) to demand a trial by jury, which the said justice is lterehy re
quired to grant, and thereupon a vcnire shall be issued to summon ajury
of six men, and no more, if the debt, demand or matter in dispute do not

Process and
qualifications.

parties. after the defendant has appeared or put in his plea to such action,

exceed the sum of fifty dollars, or ,a jury of twelve men, if the debt, de
mand or matter in dispute exceed the sum or value of fifty dollars, (c)

being citizens of this state, above the age of twenty-one years, and under
(n) An adjournment isa matter of discretion in thejustice.
Doughry v. Jo/trs, 1 South. '6.">3. Except where a party is
deprived of the attendance ofhis witnesses. Gould v. Brown,
4 Hui. 165. Hninrs v. It'or:Imclt-.18 Vr. 2'27. A jttstice may for
his own convenience adjourn a trial. 1’hr.ton v. .-llillun, 1’Pn.
"1011. But not beyond thirty days. Lloyrl v. llnncr, 1 Har. l'.’7.
Nor before the return day, by notifying the defendant. .\'ir:hoIson
v. ll'rI,/lhl, 1 Hnr. 232. Halsey v. ll'ItHloc/r, Pen. ‘S69. S/rrlnmn
v. Cor, Penn ‘Q53. Taylor v. I)orr#rmu:. 1 Hrtr. 473, -I78. lt should
be on the return day or day of adjonrnrnent, and both parties
be notified. Brctnnin v. I~'oorIm»~s. 2 Gr. 590. See Nriphbour v.
Trimmer, 1 Hm-. 58. 6|, norr. Qucry—I8 a defendant regularly
summoned entitled to notice of an adjournment? Sin!"/ht v.
Rob.In'n_<. 1
340. See (Jtmman v. Pr'r1'i1te, -I Jlul. 253. If the
cause is adjourned to such day as counsel may agree upon, and
one of the counsel refuses to agree to a day, the. justice cannot
ﬁx a day and notiﬁy the party. ll'oodu-orlh v. ll'olt‘r.'I'lrm.4 Zab.
-H9. An adjournment before the return of the summons is good,
if made by consent. ."l1'c('ol/Later V. Rirhman, Pm. "208. That
defendant is Otlt of the state isa proper ground for adjourn
ment. Combs v. Johnson, 7 Hal. '2-H, 246. The itdjournment
cannot be beyond thirty (lays, (formerly ﬁfteen l. I’wlr'iclr v.
Slurw. PPM. '57. Autrn V. Bryon, Pen. ‘I35. Ii’l’.~rpIun/1 v. "I’m-Irr'1',
Pen. "‘l-'i.“». Jfon1,m-nwry v. li'ootlruﬂ'. Pen. ‘G10. I hzms v.
Allin, Pa-n. ‘R51. Nor less than five days. Jlfidlnr v. Lozmfiler,
2 Gr. 34. Unless by consent of parties.
Walker v. ]\'¢‘t'n~nr_u,
Pen. *t;‘.'l. For-rmid v. Gray, Prn. *-“J20. Consent cannot be
inferred from an appearance. IV/u’!1:\'.Lippa'nc0lt, 1’m.='1='3v‘»6.
Adjournment cannot be tnadeafterhearing evidence. And:-e:w.s

v. Wrigyhf, Pr-n. *'2S0. -S'!rr'fch v- I'll?‘-*.1/Ill. Pen. *7l3. A motion to
non».<uit does not preclude a motion to adjourn. Porter v. Citr
man, Pen. *5'.!l. A reference cu res an illegal adjournment.
Chnnrr. v. Chambrrs. J4-"wt. ‘-‘3S~l. And an appearance anti trial.
Jlillmtm v. Jlnytlrrrt, 2 Soulh. '-F575. A justice may grant a sn-oml
adjournment to any time within thirty days from the return of
the process, on reasonable grounds. Jiornr-r v. I{mcl|'n_(/s, 3 Hal.
‘.227. The party applying for a second adjournment on account
of the absence ofa material witness, must make R.l'll(l£l\’ll, &c.,
and the justice may then adjourn to any time notlessthan live

nor more than thirty days. Ilﬁdlrr v. Lttztuldrr, 2 (fr. 34. If
upon filing such affidavit thejn.~dlce adjourned to a time less

than thirty days front the return day, the second adjournment
cannot be legally granted the party to a time exceeding thirty
days frotn the return day. a further aiiidavlt ofthe continued

absence of the witness not being filed. Sm'r.tgr' v. Cbllim, 20 l'r.
630. If plaintiti do not appear on the day adjourned to by his
own consent, the defendant is entitled toa non-suit. Dunham v,

Solomon, l Hm-. 50. When a cause has been adjourned to a par
ticular time and place, and the justice falls t0 attend, but, at
another place, in the absence of the parties, and without the

consent ofthe defendant, adjourns the cattse to anotherdtty, he
cannot, on that day. proceed to trial and judzgtnent. although
notice of the adjournment had been given defendant. Such an
adjournment operates as a. discontinuance of the stilt. Allm v.
Stunmit Board of Ifcnlrh, l-7 Vr. 99.
(b) \-'enlre cannot issue before the appearance of the defend
ant. Sutton V. f,.'.')/(€IIl(I7l-, 1'r n. '~'==l-‘H. I1'¢'r‘n v. -\'r.'ull, lien. -"1'-3-H. It

may issue in dei'entiant’s absence after his n|)pt—nt‘ttnCe.
mis v. Slratton, I'm. Q‘-2145.

Lum

If iastteti bet'ore del'entlant‘s appear»

ance anti he does not afterwards appear, thejnt‘_\' maybe dis
IlllﬁS(?(l and the cause tried by lll(*jll.\'llC(’.
|i':'/Us v. J{r‘])oIv', 2
South. ‘@501. A jury cannot be called after the cause has been
heard in part by the justice. Triton V. Hrmul, 1 -Sou!/4. *.’..%i).

'i‘hejnstice’s jli(l{.{tliPlli. will be reversed where a trial by jury is
refused.

(.'ur_u

v. 1"or.'o/Ill, [Ht-. “H32.

But

not where such

refusal is caused b_v the misconduct of the party complaining.
I)unie'I.t V. -$'I'o!f, 7 Hui. ‘.37.
(1-) \\-‘here the sum in dispute is larger than thelawallows to
be decided by ajury of six men, they eannot.t.ry it,although by

consent. Fnllrrnhmwh v. C’/'rtmrr. Go.’-1: 31.

Purina‘ v. .'iIllnIl(|y,

C3011‘ TO. .-‘lit/ma v. .8’/rirml.-, Pen. $911. A demand for $50 cannot
be tried by six men. .-is/u'ro_ft v. (ﬁlm-Ir, 2 South. '~'~'-‘:77. \\"here
the plaintlﬂ demands less than $16 (now $3)», anti the defend
ant files an offset of more than $16. the cause must be tried
by twelve men, although the_iury be demanded by the plaintifff.

Jonrs v. Oh:-rr, 2 Hui. 123.

A cause cannot be tried by eleven

jurors. Brian! v. It’u.\'.s'ell, Pen. *1-iii.
win, Pen. #944.

See 1)/‘n, 1)€nrm.m v. Bold
,

J USTICES’ COURTS.

1872

the age of sixty~ﬁve years, (a) and in no wise akin to the plaintifff or defend
ant, (b) nor interested in the suit, (c) to be and appear before the said justice
at such time and place as shall be expressed in the venire, to make a jury
for the trial of the action between the parties mentioned therein; and the
constable shall, at the return of the said venire, return annexed thereto a
panel containing the names of the jurors whom he shall have summoned by
virtue thereof; and if, on the return of the venire, it shall appear that one
or more of the jurors are disqualiﬁed to serve or do not appear, then it shall
be lawful for the constable who served the same, by order of the court, inl
mediately to summon others who shall serve in their stead. (d)
34. That to the jurors and each of them who shall be returned to try the
said cause as aforesaid, the said justice shall administer the following oath
or afllrmation :
You do swear in the presence of Almighty God (or do aﬂirm, as the
case may requil-e),that you will well and truly try the matter in differ

Juror’s oath.
Ib., 4 25.

ence between -‘, plaintiﬂ, and

, defendant, and a true verdict

give, according to evidence. (e)
That to every witness produced at the said trial, the justice shall admin
ister the following oath or affirmation :
You do swear in the presence of Almighty God (or do aﬂirm, as the
case may require), that the evidence you shall give to the court and jury

Witness‘ oath.

in this matter in difi'erence between
-, plaintifff, and
-, defend
ant, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

CUll3|.ﬂl)l(!'S oath.

And that to the constable who shall be appointed to attend the jury, the
said justice shall administer the following oath or affirmation :
You do swear in the presence of Almighty God (or do afllrm, as the
case may require), that you will, to the utmost of your ability, keep ever '
person sworn (or nfﬁrmed) on this jury together in some private or con

venient place without meat or driuk,water excepted, that you will not
suffer any person to speak to them nor speak to them yourself, except by

order of the court, unless it be to ask them whether they have agreed on
their verdict, until they have agreed on their verdict.
35. That every person summoned as a juror or subpoenaed as a witness,
who shall not appear, or appearing. shall refuse to serve or give evidence
in any such action, shall forfeit and pay for every such default or refusal,

Flues ofjurors

and witnesses.
Ib., Q 25.

unless some reasonable cause be assigned, such tine, not exceeding twenty

dollars nor less than one dollar, as the said justice shall think proper to
impose; and such justice is hereby authorized and required to issue an
execution, directed to any constable of the said county, to levy the same
of the goods and chattels of the offender, which ﬁne when recovered shall
be applied by the said justice to the use of the said county. (1/)
If delendant has
filed offset, plain
tll! shall not Wllh~
draw suit.

36. That if the defendant have filed an oifset the plaintifff shall not

be permitted to withdraw his suit, nor shall any judgment of non-suit
or discontinuance be entered without the consent of the defendant, but the

P. L. i870, p. en, 3 l. case shall be heard on motion of the defendant, if the plaintifff neglect or

refuse to move the same, and if it shall appear upon evidence produced
by the defendant that the plaintifff is actually indebted to the defendant,

judgluent shall be rendered in favor of' the defendant for the amount found
due him; ]>r0v[¢I¢'d, such defendant have ﬁled an affidavit with the justice
at the time of filing his offset, that the offset is not ﬁled for the purpose

of delay, and that he verily believes he does not owe the plaintill anything,
(In The words ofthe not are mandatory. Soyns v. S(‘lA'I1i4.‘1‘,
Pr n. "3. l{irA-/llitrlrlr. C. J. It seems “ good and inwlul men"
for " L'lllZ9l|'~' uf this mule," &c., is not fulnl. Sharp v. H: ml:-iv/w

sun, l'n|.“(l8<3.

such error is cured by verdict and ji|lliUliPill.

I211:-hm \'. .\Im‘1‘_I/. Pen. ”97.

lhnlglily Y. Keud, Pvn. '*lKl‘.’.

See

lir|Lv1;|/ v. Nulmnn, Pr-n. ‘-329. A juror, although above sixl_\'-five

P£s.mnt, (lure ‘I20. An administrator of the maker oi‘ u pro
missory now, cnnnol he n juror in a sull on such note against
lhe payee. JfmI.vr v. 1‘hIIri', 2 smith. *-586. Thin njuror hnsa
suit for the like cause ngniusl lhe Challenger, is good. Gardner

v. 1.mmm_r/. Pm.

Thai n conslable is interested, ls good

years of age, may be sworn by consent. Sultmi v. Pally, 2 South.

cause. (,'I‘1l!|7H#T \'. !‘1'rm'/13/. (‘Orr 43.
(II) See B1/_l/{ls v. Jlrlimu ll, 11- n. #677.

’?-:'>04.

constable or ministerial officer oflhe court, cannot be depuled

(bl A juror who had married a niece ofa purI_visdlsqualitied.
Dm. jlinrhnum v. Clark. (bro 446. The dlsquuillicnllon (‘on
tinuss nﬂvr lhe denlh of the relative, ifissue survive.
l'rmn/Iy
v. h'i|v.IM, 3 Zah. 201. That lhe constable who returns lhe

lo serve a venlre. Robins v. Jlnrtiu, 15 i’r. 639.
gr 1 The form ofoulh usually administered in courts ofjustice

venire, is relnled to a party is good ground for challenge lo the
army.
i'unnuI.-m v. Im:mrr, ISO!!!/l. #364.
fr) A challenge for relationship must show how related.
Sh rrmnn V. Slilrx, Ilm. ‘T40. A Challenge of njuror for favor
" that he is u neighbor," is illegal. ./‘mm: v. I>‘ul!z'1-u-ortll, Pm.

N55.

A juror cannot challenge himself.

Den. Hlrkhum v.

A person who is not n

is sufiiclent. It need not follow the exact language ofthis oath.
Eurlr v. Vnnhurrn, 2 Hui. 3-H.
(1)1 A jllsllce ought um l0 impose a ﬂneupon a non-attending

juror without first giving him, personally or in wriling, a rea
sonable notice to appear before him and show cause, if any he
have. \vh_v he should not be lined. S/ale v. Hollilzsluad, 1 Har.
539. See l:‘Iu‘nrhurt v. Lmwe, H 1'1". 318.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.‘

1873

but that the plaintifff is indebted to him in a certain sum, which shall be
stated in the affidavit.

3']. That whenever the nature of the plaintiﬁ"s demand is such that his

Proof by affidavit

book or account of original entries would be competent evidence and the of book account.
defendant does not appear at the hearing, or if appearing does not require P. L. 1873, p. H9,
Q 1.
the production of‘ said book or account, a copy of the entries therein, so Amended.
far as they relate to the plaintiﬂ"s demand, together with a statement of
the credits or allowances if any, to which the defendant is entitled, shall
be received in evidence, with the same effect as if the plaintiffi"s books or
aceounts were produced and proved; provided, such copy and statement Proviso.
be accompanied by an affidavit or affidavits, setting forth that the copy is
a true copy of said original entries and that all the credits and allowances
to which the defendant is entitled appear on such statement, or in ease the
defendant is not entitled to any, then setting forth that the defendant is
not entitled to any credits or allowances, and that the sum of money or
balance claimed by the plaintifffis justly due and owing to him.
38. That where a cop_v of said entries may he used by the plaintifff, it Affidavit oi’ part
nershlp.
shall be competent to prove any partnership by affidavit.
39. 'l'hat in actions upon promissory notes, bills of exchange, checks, Proof by affidavit
drafts or other written contracts whether simple or under seal, for the pay of notes, &.O.
L. um, p. no,
ment of money only, if the defendant does not appear at the hearing, or if P.
Q 2.
he appear and consent thereto, the plaintifff may prove his case by affidavit; Amended.
the affidavit or affidavits shall contain a copy of‘ the writing or writings sued
on and shall set forth and aver such facts and circumstances as would warrant
a recovery in case such facts and circumstances were proved b_v witnesses.
40. That in all cases in which proof‘ is made by affidavit, it must appear Com pelent
by affidavit that the affiant or afiiants have competent lznowlerlge of the. lrnowiege in
fact or facts sworn to, and in actions upon promissory notes, bills of‘ aﬂian l.
exchange, checks. drafts, or other written contracts, simple or under seal,
for the payment of money only, such notes, bills, checks, drafts, or other
contracts. must be produced at the hearing, or their non-production
accounted for by affidavit.

41. '.llhat if the jury disagree, other writs of venire may '_issue in the
Disagreement of

Jury

same cause until a verdict be obtained. (a)

V. Judgment.
42. That if the plaintifff‘, other than executors or administrators, in any
such action shall be non-suited or shall discontinue or withdraw his action,

without the consent of the defendant, where he may lawfully do so, then
judgment shali_be given against such plaintifff for the costs which have
accrued, or if such plaintifff shall appear to owe, or be indebted to the
defendant, then judgment shall be given against him for the debt, or
damages and costs, as the case may require.
43. That if judgment by confession shall he entered against the defend
ant, unless an affidavit shall ﬁrst be made, as directed by the act entitled
“ An act directing the mode of entering judgments on bonds, with warrants
of attorney to eoni'ess judgments” (which affidavit shall be ﬁled and pre
served by the said justice), such judgment shall not operate or have any
effect against any person or persons not parties in said action. but shall
be binding and have its full effect so far as relates to the parties in the
suit only. (_b)
(a) After a case has been tried with ajury,and the jury, fail
ing to agree, has been discharged, jurisdiction is restored to the
Justice's court over the cause, for all purposes, until ﬂnai judg
ment Ls rendered. If either party desires a jury, he must
demand it, or, falling in that. his right is waived, and the

justice may proceed -to trisi and judgment. W hits v. Hatha
way. 2| Vr. H9.
(D) A defendant could formerly take advantage of the fact
that no ail‘!-iavilhall beenﬂled. Pm-kerv. (h-t_aps,1-'€onIh.*i(ii.

A defendant sued by a constable for goods mken in ex»:-niion,
may show that the Judgment was entered without aﬂidaviz.

When Judgment
agni nst plalntiﬂ’.
R. S. 229, Q 27.

Judgments by
confession.

Ib., g 21.

Cuuer v. Applcaute, 2 South. ‘479. See ante, p. i72,note (0). Such
a judgment, although valid hetwr-en the parties, has no opera
tion sgainst third persons and cannot be read in evidence even

in mitigation of damages.

Sheppard v. Sheppard, 5 Hal. Z50.

The aﬂidavit should conform to the words ofihe act. Dnglish
v. Sharp, 8 Gr. 457. See W1-I/1M v. Wood, Spm. 309. Sfittldtl‘ v.
Ooryclt, 5 Hat. 340. No affidavit is necessary where the defend
ant has been brought into court by serving process on him.
Budd v. .’i{m'vi'n, 1 South. #248. Lve v. Woodhull, 7 Hal. 126.
Ferguson v. Earl, 2 Gr. 124. Hoguct v. Wallace, 4 Dutch. 524.

1l8

J USTICES’ COU RTS.

I874
Where case is
submitted to
Jury.

n>., g 19.
Form of judg
ment in case of
action on bond,
as ,with penalty.

44. That in cases of trial by jury, there shall be no judgment of non-suit
or discontinuance after the merits oi‘ the cause on either side are submitted
to the jury, unless by the consent of both parties.
45. That where the amount really due and recoverable upon any bond,

bill, note, or other contract in writing, does not exceed, exclusive of costs,
the sum or value of one hundred dollars, at the time when the suit is insti

tuted, proof shall be made of the amount really due and owing, and the
justice shall givejudgment therefore, with costs, and not for the amount of
the penalty expressed, whether such penalty exceed or be less than one

hundred dollars. (a)
VI. Execution.
The execution.
R. S. 2'29, I ‘LB.

Amended.

46. That when judgment shall be given against the plaintifff or defendant,
by virtue of this act, the said justice shall grant execution thereupon, com
manding the constable to levy and make the debt, or damages and costs,
of the goods and chattels of the party ; and in the cases hereinaiter speci
ﬁed, for want of suﬁicient goods and chattels whereon to levy and make
the same, to take the body of such party and convey him to the jail of

Against whom,
and how to be
issued.

the county ; provided, that no execution shall issue against the body of any
female; and provided also, that when judgment shall be obtained against
executors or administrators, execution shall issue thereon, in the same

manner as it is issued against them in the other courts of law of this
against body may
issue.

state. (b)
47. That an execution against the body shall be granted only in the fol
lowing cases:

Where warrant
has issued.

I. Where awarrant in the nature of a capias ad respondendum has
issued upon an order made in accordance with the provisions of the four

When execution

teenth section of this act, and such order has not been set aside, or if set

aside has been subsequently approved by a justice of the supreme court.
Where judgment
is rendered in
case of tort.

Where no war
rant has issued in
an action found
ed on contract.

Order of justice.

Rev. ms, p. 142.1

II. iVhere no warrant in the nature ofa capias ad respondendum having
been issued for the same cause of action, due proof is made on oath or
atiirmation to the satisfaction of the justice, that the defendant, at the

time when execution is applied for, is not a freeholder in the county
where the same shall be issued, and judgment has been rendered in an
action of tort. (c)
III. Where no warrant in the nature of a capias ad respondendum has
issued for the same cause of action, and the action being founded upon
contract express or implied, due proof is made to the satisfaction of the

justice by aiﬁdavit or aﬂidavits, ﬁled as aforesaid, establishing the particu
lars speciﬁed in the ﬁrst subdivision oi‘ the thirteenth section of this act, or
establishing that the defendant has rights or credits, monies or etfects,
either in his own possession, or in the possession of any other person or
persons, to his use, of the value of ten dollars or over, which he unlawfully
and fraudulently refuses to apply in payment of such judgment. (d)
48. That if the requirements of the next preceding section have been
complied with, the justice shall make and subscribe an order that execu
tion issuc against the goods and chattels of the defendant, and for want of
suiiicient goods and chattels, against the body, whereupon execution may

Application to

set aside.

issue in accordance with such order as directed in section forty-six of
this act.
49. That except where previous application has been made and passed
upon under the iiﬂaeenth section of this act, the defendant may, at any

(0) See .Hm"rI:on V. Hill, 3 N. I. L. J. 880.

(b) Execution cannot issue until after lhejudgmentisenierwi.
Crnrulall v. Dam:/. Pen. H37. Pnrker v. Frarnhex, Pm. ‘I56.
Johnson v. Johnson. Pen. '3i7. Lqlton v. C'hrm|pi|m, I‘r'n. $157.
Lea v. Steelman, Pm '3i9. (.b1mo1- v. Soudrr, Pen. ‘$29. Nor
can it issue for com unlii aiier Judgment therefore be entered.
Zone v. Plamnt, Pm. #319. The awarding ofan execution is no

part of thejurizment, and hence may he reviewed by certim-rm‘.
I(rumri4'.I¢ v. Krumcick, 2 (Jr. 39. So, the execution may he set
aside und lhejudgment nﬁirmed. Hlnchman v. Choir, Sprn. 27!.

The justice cunuot use another form nfexeculion than that
prescribed. Kim: v. Chnmberlin, Spen. 654;.
(c) An aﬂidarltshowlng that a search has been madtnand that

it appeared that no deed tn the defendant is on record in the
county, is not sufficient proof that he is not a ﬁ'90l|\l|(i9l‘.
Eldrige v. Murphy, i6 N. J. L J. 2-‘S9.

A body execution issued

on such an affidavit will he set a~irie. ll». The proﬂf required
for such an execution in an action of tori, is such us wuiillfl he
com eient to no before ujury to prove the i'acv.timt|h¢-di-i'eud
ant s not a freehoicier. lb. An execution azuinst the body
will not be not aside for irre|ruiarit_\' or (infect of proof niter the

defendant has given a bond in insolvency.

Kuhn: v. l\'q/er, 16

N. J. L. J. 241.

ul) \Vitne>ses in order to establish fmuri must swear rnly io
facts, not to conclusions of law. Kipp v. Chamhcrlin, Speu. N6.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

1875

time, after order made under the forty-eighth section of this act, apply to
any one of the persons to whom he may apply under said ﬁfteenth section,
to set aside said order so far as it authorizes the taking of the body, the
defendant having ﬁrst given reasonable notice to the plaintifff of such
application, and if such person to whom application is made shall deem
the proofs made insuiﬁcient to warrant the issuing of process against the
body, he may make order that the justice’s order, so far as it authorizes
the taking of the defendant’s body, be set aside.
50. That such order shall be delivered to thejustice who shall ﬁle the
same with the other papers in the cause, and who shall furnish certiﬁed
copies thereof to the defendant or his agent on request.
51. That the order, from the time of the ﬁling thereof with the justice,
shall operate to discharge the defendant from arrest or imprisonment, if
arrested or imprisoned, or if not, from liability to arrest or imprisonment
in the suit in which the order was made, and shall have no other or further
operation.
52. That no constable,jailer, warden, or other officer or person, taking
or detaining the body of the-defendant in pursuance of the warrant men
tioned in the thirteenth section of this act, or in pursuance of the writ of
execution shall incur any liability whatsoever for any act done or com
mitted pursuant to the commands of the writ, in or about such taking or
detention, prior to service upon him of a copy of the order of the justice of
the supreme court, law judge or commissioner, certiﬁed by thejustice of
the peace with whom such order is ﬁled.
53. That service of said order upon the person in whose custody the
defendant may be, shall warrant the immediate discharge of such defend
ant from arrest or imprisonment under said writ.
54. That the justice shall furnish to the defendant or his agent on request,
a certiﬁed copy of the order and affidavit or, aﬂldavits upon which the
warrant or execution against the body issued or may issue, and such copy
may be used before the justice of the supreme court, law judge, or com
missioner, who may make order thereupon in the same manner as if the
original order and aﬁidavit or aﬁidavits were produced before him.
55. That where a justice of the peace has made an order pursuant to the
fourteenth section or to the forty-seventh section of this act, and applica
tion has been made in the ﬁrst instance to a justice of the supreme court

Justice to file
order and give
copies.

Effect of order
to set aside.

When constable
&c., to incur no

llabillly.

Service oforder.

Justice to furnish
copies of order.

When second
application
allowable.

to set the order aside, if the justice refuse to do so, the defendant shall

not be permitted to renew his application, but if such application has been
made in the ﬁrst instance to a law judge or commissioner, who either
makes or refuses to make such order, then either party may, on notice to
the other party, within six days alter such order has been made or refused,
apply to a justice of the supreme court, to re\'iew the action of the law
judge or commissioner, such justice of the supreme court may, in his dis
cretion, modify or set aside the order of the law judge or commissioner, and
make such other order in reference to the taking or retaking of the defend
ant’s body either on the warrant or on any execution issued or that may be
issued, as the nature of the case may justify or require, and the order of
such justice shall be ﬁnal.
53. That if any defendant shall appear at the return of the summons or
warrant, or by consent without process, or on the day that judgment shall be
rendered, or before the issuing of execution, whether the suit has been de
fended or not, and procure a good and suﬁicient freeholder, resident in the
county, to join with such defendant in a confession of judgment, to the ad
verse party, with costs, then if the judgment shall not be more than ﬁfteen

Slay of execution.
R. S. 229, i 29.

Amended.

dollars, nor less than ﬁve dollars, no execution shall issue until after one

month from the time of rendering such judgment; and when the judgment

One month.

shall exceed ﬁfteen, and not exceed sixty dollars, no execution shall issue

Three months.

until after three months from the time of rendering such _jndgment; and
when the judgment shall exceed sixty dollars, no execution shall issue until
after six months from the time of rendering such judgment. (a)

Six months.

(ax If the plaimiﬂ‘ conceives himself in danger oi‘ losing his

Slfivers, 1 South. '89.

demand aﬂer the ﬁrst confession, he may require another free

8 p(pear

hoider as security. The defendant cannot object that the
judgment is entered against the freeholder alone. Hunt v.

ju

The defendant and the freeholder must

personally before the justice and jointly confessihe
gment. Bttdev-back v. Hlnchman, 2 Gr. 570.

1876
But not in suit
upon former
judgment.

Ib., Q 80.

Goods, how ad

vertised and sold.
Ib., Q 3|.

Money, when
paid over.

Proceedings on
claim oi’ property.

Ib., 5 :42.

How claim tried.

JUSTICES' COURTS.
57. That where a suit shall be brought upon any judgment recovered
before ajustice of the peace, and judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiﬂ,
no stay of execution shall be allowed thereon; provided, the time herein
bei'ore limited, for stay of execution upon such sum, shall have expired
since thc date of the ﬁrst judgment, and if not, such further stay of execu
tion shall be allowed as with the time already passed since the date of the
ﬁrst judgment, will make up the time allowed for stay of execution on
such sum, as is directed by the preceding section of this act.
58. That the constable, who by virtue of such execution, levies on any
goods and chattels, shall give notice by advertisements, signed by himself,
and put up in three of the most public places in the township where they
were taken, of the time and place they will be exposed to sale, at least live
days before the time appointed for selling them, and therein describe the
goods and chattels so taken ; and shall, at the time and place so appointed,
expose them to sale by public vendue, and strike them oﬂ‘ to the highest
bidder, and pay the money thence arising to the plaintifff, or in case of his
absence to the justice, and within thirty days from the time he shall
receive the execution, make return to the ‘justice who issued the same of
the proceedings had thereon, and the said justice shall make a record
thereof. (a)
59. That in all cases where any constable shall, by virtue of any writ of
execution or attachment, issuing out of this court, levy on, attach, or take
into his possession, any goods or chattels which shall be claimed, by notice
in writing, delivered to said constable by any other person than the defend
ant, he shall immediately upon such claim, delay his sale of the same for
the space of ten days, that the said claimant may, within the said term,
apply to some justice of the peace within or near the township where such
goods or chattels were so seized, for a venire to summon a jury oi’ six law
ful men as jurors, to try tlrc right of such claimant to said property ; and
it shall he lawful for such justice of the peace to issue the same, and
direct a return thereof to be to him made, and to proceed therein as in
other cases of trial by jury; but the claimant shall, in all cases, give notice

in writing to the plaintiti of the time and place of the said trial; but if
the said claimant shall not, within ten days, apply to a justice and have
his right tried, as aforesaid, the said claim shall be considered abandoned,
Effect oi’, and
proceedings after
verdict.
Ib., 5 33.

and the constable shall proceed as if it had not been made. (b)
60. That the verdict of such jury shall protect the said constable from
any action for taking and seizing such property. or delivery thereof to the

claimant; and if the said property shall be found to belong to the said
claimant, the said constable shall proceed no further with the same; but
if it shall be found to belong to the defendant, he shall proceed to dispose
of the same, as is directed in such process; and the costs attending such
trial shall be taxed by the said justice as in other cases, and shall he paid
by the plaintifff at whose suit the said property was taken and seized, if
the said claimant obtain a verdict in his favor; and by such claimant if

Constable to sell
ifindemnliied.

the verdict is found against him; provided, that if the plaintifff, upon notice
being given to him, as aforesaid, shall indemnii'y the constable against the

demand of the claimant, then he shall suspend any further proceeding
- V
therein, and proceed to sell. (c) ' V .__._ ¢._....
LR‘. .'_‘..~ _ .__.
(a) The constable is not estopped by the sale it-om showing
that he never received the money therefrom. Lomcrlon v.
Iluﬂ'man, 1 llutth. 675.
(b) The claim must be ﬂied wlih thejuslice. The notice to the
constable ought I0 describe the property suificiemly to identify
it. Form oi verdict. Baird v. Johnson, 2 Gr. 120. Applim to
goods seized on attachment. 61111/A-er v. Slcitlman, 2 Hr. 189. A
claimant, upon a trial of his title to properly which has been
levied upon under an execution out oi’ajustice'scourt, need not
prove the execution and levy. Iblwrtl v. Fuller, 2-I V1". 572. If
plaintifff in execution, on return day o the venire, does not
chnllem.{c the existence ofthejurisdicti nai facts, butoblsius
an adjournment, and afterwards permits thcjury to be sworn
and the trial to proceed, he is presumed l0 have admitted
such jurisdictional facts. 1b. The twenty-i’ourLh section oflho
attachment act does not so far apply to an attachment lwfore a
justice of the peace as to alter section 59 of i.he_ius|.ioe's court
Act. Lindauer v. Timer, 2 N. J. L. J. 28.

(c) Constable can recover from plnini.iﬂ' in execution who

indemniﬁed him, the costs and expensssofdefending the action
brought against him by claimant, as well as the amount of
judgment obtained by claimant. Thompson v. Oateman, l ﬁmﬂs.

'2l6. The only remedy for the costs on a claim ofproperly, in
by action oi‘ debt, in case they are not voluntarily paid by the
arty made liable. Lble v. Zunger, I3 Vr. 38]. It is not requis
te ihatacop oflthe itaxed cosis should beserved on the party
made liable or them before suit brought. lb. Chattels in the
possession oi‘a mortgagor, who, according ii) the terms of the
mortgage, is entitled to possession until default be made In the

payment ofihe mortgage debt, do not, before default. belong to
the mortgagee within the meaning of this section.

Btauvell v.

I~'r.rhlman, 19 Vr. 430. When, under the siuiute, the plropert
levied on is claimed and the tfile tried, the verdict t erein s
conclusive for all purposes as between the claimant and the

plaiuilif in execution. Berry v. CIl¢lﬂlb01'lGi7l,21 Vr. 463. The
provlsiog calling for ajury ofsix men in such case is constitu
tional.
b.

1877

JUSTICES’ COURTS.
61. That for want of goods and chattels whereon to levy, the said consta
ble shall, when execution is issued against the body, according to the tenor
of the said execution, take the body of the person against whom the said
execution is issued, and convey and deliver him to the keeper of the com
mon jail of the county, who is hereby commanded to keep such person in
safe custody, in the common jail aforesaid, until the debt or damages, with
costs, be fully paid, or until he be thence deli\'ered by due course of law ;
and the said constable shall at the same time deliver to the said jailor a
copy of said execution, and shall take said jailer’s receipt upon the execu
tion, and return the same to the justice who issued it, who shall make a
record thereof in his docket; and if the said keeper shall suffer such per
son so committed to his custody, to go or to be at large out of said jail,
except by virtue of some writ of habeas corpus, or by virtue of the order
mentioned in the ﬁfty-second section of this act, before the said debt or
damages, with costs, be paid, or he be thence delivered by and in due
course of law, then every such going or being out of the said jail, shall be
an escape, for which the sheriff shall be responsible to the plaintifff‘ to the
amount of the debt or damages and costs, for which such person shall be
committed, to be recovered by the said plaintifff, with costs, by action of
debh
62. That execution may issue without a revival of the judgment by scire
facias at an_v time within twenty years from its recovery, if thejustice, by
successive elections or otherwise, continues so long in oﬂiee; provided, that

if‘ more than six years have elapsed since the recovery of the judgment,
a special order of the justice shall be necessary before the execution issue,
to be made upon ten days’ notice to the defendant of the application there
for, and proof to the satisfaction of the justice of the amount remaining due
upon thejudgment. (a)
63. That the notice required by the last preceding section, may be served
upon the defendant personally, either within or without this state, or in
case he resides within this state, may be served by leaving a copy at his
residence in the presence of some person of the family of the age of four
teen years, who shall be informed of the contents.
64. That every execution which shall or may be issued by anyjustice
of the peace, upon any judgment rendered in pursuance of this act, shall
be in full force and operation against the goods and chattels levied on for
the term of one year from the time of issuing the same, unless sooner satis
ﬁed; aud all executions which shall remain unsatisfied for the space of
one year, thereafter, shall be null and void; hut the plaintifff may there
upon have a subsequent execution or executions, which shall continue in
force and operation and become void in like manner.
65. That upon the return of the original execution unsatisﬁed, thejustice
who issued the same shall have power and authority to issue an alias exe
cution,and upon the return of the alias unsatisﬁed, the saidjustice may
issue a pluries execution, which said writs may be levied on the goods and
chattels of the defendant, and shall be made returnable, and be in all things
executed in like manner as the original execution. [See Sec. 146, post]

66. That where one or more executions, issued by virtue of this act,
shall have been levied by one or more constables upon the goods and chat
tels of any defendant, the said executions shall have and obtain priority
according to the time of levying the same, and all surplus monies arising
upon any sale by virtue of any execution, shall be paid to the officer or
person holding the next oldest execution which shall have been levied as
aforesaid, until all executions levied upon the goods and chattels of any
defendant, at the time of sale upon the ﬁrst execution, be satisﬁed or so
far satisfied as there shall be proceeds for that purpose, according to their
respective seniority as aforesaid; and in case two or more executions, at
the suit of diﬂerent plaintiﬁs, shall be levied at the same time, such execu
tion or executions shall have preference according to the time when they
were received, which shall be noted on each execution by the constable at
la) See McGotvwt v. Connell, 14 Vr. I06.

0| taking the
body on execu

tion.
Ib., Q 34.
Amended.

Sclre facias not
necessary.
P. L. 1862, p. ‘..’7,i 1.
Amended.
Where more than
slx years have
elapsed, order

necessary.

Notice, how

served.

Execution In
force one year.

R 5. 229, Q 35.
Amended.

Alina and pluries
execuilon.
In , Q 36.

Priority ofexe~
cullons.
1b., Q 37.

1878

JUSTICES’ COURTS
the time of receiving the same; and if two or more executions shall have
been delivered to a constable at the same time, against the same defendant,
then the monies arising from the sale under or by virtue oi‘ the said
executions, or either of them, shall, if not sutﬁcient to satisfy both or all
of them, be applied towards the satisfaction of the several executions in
proportion to the sums due on them respectively.

Property levied
on to he inven
toried.
Ib., Q 88.

Constable liable
for neglect.
1b., Q 89.

67. That it shall be the duty of the constable to whom shall be delivered
any execution, issued under the provisions of this act, to take an inventory,
in writing, of such and so much of the property of the defendant as he
means and intends tolevy upon; which inventory and levy and the actual
time of making the same, shall be annexed to the said execution, and
signed by the said constable, under his oath of oiilce, and shall.at all
times, be received as evidence of the levy and of the time of making the
same, as contemplated by this act, and that the property so levied upon
shall be bound from the time of such levy and not before. (a)
68. That if the constable to whom any execution is delivered shall not
perform the duties, or any of them prescribed by this act, respecting such

execution,such constable shall be liable to pay to the person in whose
favor the said execution is issued, the debt or damages and costs, or any

of them, mentioned therein, to be recovered by action of debt with double
costs, by the person so as aforesaid injured thereby; and when any con
stable shall have in his hands one or more executions, and not have per

formed the duty required of him by law on the same, be shall be liable to
be prosecuted on such execution or executions, separately or jointly, by
the person or persons in whose favor said execution or executions were
issued, who may recover as aforesaid in an action of debt with double costs;
and if it shall appear that the said constable has received the money or any
part thereof, on any execution for which a suit shall be brought, in that

case he shall pay to the plaintifff treble costs; and when any judgment shall
be had against any constable for any delinquency in his office, execution.
may be issued immediately against him for debt and costs. (_b)
Execution
against corpora

tion.
Ih., Q 77.

69. That if judgment shall be given against any body politic or cor
porate by virtue of this act, the justice shall grant execution thereupon
against the goods and chattels of such body politic or corporate, which may
be levied on and sold according to law.
VII. Dooketing judgments.

70. That ﬁnal judgments of courts for the trial of small causes in any

Jud|_zment may

he dockeied,
when.
L. 18-I8, p. 1'27,

P. “L. 1858, p. 411,
g 2.
Clerk to keep

docket.

P. L. ma, p. 121,
Q 2.
Mode of docket
lug.
Ib., 5 3.

county of this state, if not less than ten dollars including costs, remain due
on such judgments, may be docketed in the court of common pleas of that
county. in the manner herein directed. (1) [See Sec. 169, p0sl.]
71. That the clerk of every court of common pleas shall provide and
keep a docket in which shall be entered, upon complying with the provi
sions of this act, all such ﬁnal judgments if not less than ten dollars remain
due thereon as aforesaid.
72. That when a judgment is obtained in any court for the trial of small
causes, for an amount not less than ten dollars, including costs, and exe
cution shall issue thereon,and be returned by the constable to whom it
has been delivered to be executed, indorsed to the effect that he could not

(fl) A constable cannot maintain trover for goods levied on
by him. unless he has inventoried them. Brinck v. Drrkcr,
Pen. ‘W2. C‘mIm- v. Pvterson, 1 Soulh. '3i7. ll’mtr1'mulr. v.
Hankimml, i Hal. 140. They are not evidence without produz.~
ing thejudgments. Quher v. Peler.von,1 South. '3i8(n). Awrlt
of execution from a Justice‘: court does not bind the goods of

the defendant until an actual or constructive levy he made. A

render him liable; some neglect mustbeshown. Bennell v.
Bozo:-U1, Pen. *5-13. lmaminp v. Denny, Pen. ‘Oil. Parker v.
Parker, Prn. ‘S67. Iilerril V. Downs, Pim. $926. Debt is the
proper form ofaciion for not making a proper levy und inven
tory. Sandford v. Out/rur, 1 Scum. H20. Case, for not returning
it. lb. Constable is liable fur the debt, damages, costs and in

takes actual posse:-sion oiVdei‘enduni's chattel, or places a

terest. Hunt v. Bn_|/tan, 1 llul. 2li. Iiunt v. Gulick. 4 Hui. ‘£05.
Jones v. King, -I Hal. 209. The supreme court will not sin ' pro
ceedings against s. constable for neglect on an execution swan-d
on n Judgment, which has been removed by crrtiorari inio the

keeper in possession, it will amount to a valid levy. although

supreme court.

no inventory be taken.

An in

the constable applies l0 the requirementto return theexecuiion

ventory, made as required hy this section, is necessary io sup

within thirty days. .McLarcn v. Mc Vicar, 12 Vr. 271. The
nciion is penal, and must be brought within two years next
after the cause oi‘ action accrued. lb.

bare inventory without levy is insniilciem. for that purpose.
Nelson v. Van Gazelle Iilf . 02.. 18 Slew. 594. If a conslafile

Dclnnrll V. 1|Irn'tln,22 V1-. H8.

p0l'l a levy resting upon a constructive seizure only lb.
(b) Mere dellwwy of an execution to I constable does not

(‘mulls v. Johmon, 1 Hal. 178.

(I) This section was amended by P. L. 1890, p. 188, but the amendalory act was repealed by P. L. I892, p. 385.

The llnhilily of

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

1879

ﬁnd any personal property of the party against whom the execution‘ was
issued on which to levy, or that he had levied and sold goods and chattels,
and had made thereof part of said judgment, and that the same was not
fully satisﬁed, and stating the balance still unsatisﬁed, the clerk ol' the
court of common pleas of the county where such judgment was obtained,
upon the request of the person or persons obtaining suchjndgment, and
upon ﬁling in his oﬂlce a transcript of the proceedings from the docket of
the justice oi’ the peace before whom such judgment was obtained, under
the hand and seal of said justice, and a certiﬁed copy of the state of
demand and set-off ﬁled in said action, with a certiﬁed copy of the return
of the constable, and also an oath or atilrmation of the party, his or their

attorney or agent making such request, that at the time of ﬁling such
transcript a certain amount not less than ten dollars is still due, stating

the "amount, and that he believes the debtor is not possessed of goods and
chattels sufficient to satisfy said amount due, shall enter in the docket
provided for that purpose the transcript of such judgment in words at
length containing the name of the justice of the peace before whom the
judgment was obtained, the names at length of the parties to said jttdg
ment, the style of the action, the date of the judgment, the amount
recovered with costs, the substance of the return of the constable, and the

amount stated to be due in the affidavit. (a)

73. That the said judgment shall from the time of said docketing in the
court of common pleas, operate as a judgment obtained in a suit originally
commenced in said court, and satisfaction thereof may be entered in the

How docketed
judgment to ope

rate.

Ib., 5 4.

margin of the docket, in the same manner and upon the same evidence as

is now provided by law in ease ofjudgments rendered in the courts of
common pleas; and the execution issued thereon shall be of the same
effect as to the property of the debtor, either of a personal or real nature,
as if issued on a judgment originally obtained in the courts of common
pleas. upon a suit commenced therein.

74. That after such judgment shall be docketed in the court of common
pleas. no execution shall issue thereon ottt of the court for the trial of small
causes, nor shall any proceeding be had except the due and proper grant
ing of an appeal or certiorari.
75. That c\'cl'_\' judgment doeketed,as herein directed, may be revived
by scire facias in the court of common pleas, in the same manner, in the
like cases. and with the like effect, as ifsaid judgment had been obtained
in a suit originally commenced in that court.
76. That the clerk of the court of common pleas shall make to the docket

in which such judgments are to be entered, a complete alphabetical index;
and said docket shall he a public record, to which all persons desiring to
examine the same shall ha\'e access. (b)
77. That if any judgment recovered in any court for the trial of small
causes shall be removed by appeal or certiorari, and the necessary bond be
perfected, and such judgment shall, either before or aftet' such removal, be
docketed as herein provided, execution from the court of common pleas
"in which said judgment is docketed shall be stayed and suspended until
the ﬁnal determination of such appeal or certiorari. (0)
(nl The ﬂU\llIlllllXlhl')l'l1.lI1R ihedockellngofjudzrnentsin the
rnurt or ('l’l|l"|Hl| |-n~u~x, I'('(||lll’l‘f4 that an execution shall have
heeu issued and returned by the nllirer, ivirlometl to the eifect
llml‘. he could not ﬁnd any pt-r~'onnl property nf the party
against. whom the execution was l.\§ll£'(l on which to lev_\'.nr
that he has it-'\‘l1‘4i and sohi goods and chattels. and has made
lhl'rr'0f part. Ufl|)I'_lll(‘l]_'lIlElIl. stating the lmlnnce still unmll.-t
ﬂed. Tlnulo v. l\'II»;mul1/. H i'r -HM. A H'llll'|I mndc h_\' the

ofﬁcer, “I return the tvithln execuIinn.nln-r N*ﬂl'('l1lllL' the
pr!-inisea din-tatlsﬂed. not ﬁnding nny goods to enver the nb-we
sum and cn:4L\," I-4 not a conipllunt-e with lheslatute.

lb.

. Although, where the judgment of the justice is not tloeketed in
cunﬁ-rnnt_v Wllll vh» RKRUIIP, it may be attacked collaterally and
In-med in it nulllI_\‘. yet the party 8R1ril'V°(|hyl|lP doekt-ting
may certify It. ﬁirthcjudzmtmtnfthe supreme rourtnstoils

No proceeding in
Justice's court

thereafter.
Ib., Q 5.
How revived.
Ib., Q 6.

Clerk to index.
Ib., Q 7.

In case of appeal
and certiorarl.
Ib., Q 8.

return the within execution this 25th day nl'Seplemher, 1872,
unsatlsiled, no goods or chattels found within my county be
longing to the deli-ntlant to make any part nr the dent and
costs on this execution except that \\ lll('ll is exempt by law."
Jfeld, such jurlgnn-ut Wtbi vulhi. Piom-»-r v. Bngrmll,Z0 Vr.

22¢. I use or .’lIu!IImv.x v. .'I!il1/r. 18 l'1-. 4i-i. disapproved. Sec
l)unm.v v. Illulllmvn, 2'2 l'r.
A eunsluble‘s return on an
e.wcntion—"Mnntville, April l2th, I856. I rt-turn the within
execution unsatisﬁed; iound no goodnami chain-la on which
to lev "—ls suﬂicient for the purptme ofdocketlm; thejudg
ment. n the court of common pleas. Neu-num v. Van Duyue,
15 Slew. 485'. F:-elrhnerht v. blag/er. 12 Slew. 55L
(I1) -‘See Lum v. McCY|1~!y, 10 Vr. Z99.

(c) In order to review ajudzmeut which has been docketed

validity, wlthnnl waiting nntll his property is sold.anrl therehy

in the lens, upon the ground ofillegallly in the proceedings of
the tr al court anterior to lhejudpznient. tho writ. nfrn-lion-u1'i,

lncurrim: the. risk nl Ions which would fall u Kill him ii’ he mis
tookthe law. let»/1,,-v, mum-, l7 l'r.5n. Aju zmentofsjusllca
was docketed on a constable's return in these words, viz., "I

when allowable, should he directed to the court iur the trial of
B‘l’Ill:'l"@ll8§, not to the common pleas. Davis v. Ozborne, 22
r.
.

1880
Clerk to enter the
determination on
certiorarl or
appeal.

Ib., Q u.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.
' 78. That if any judgment docketed as hereinbefore provided, shall be
reviewed upon certiorari or appeal, and a duly-certiﬁed transcript oi’ the
judgment of the court wherein such appeal or ccrtiorari may have been
determined, shall be delivered to the clerk oi" the court of common pleas
of the county where such judgment is docketed, it shall be the duty of
the said clerk to ﬁle the same in his oliice, and enter in the margin of the
docket opposite the entry oi" said judgment, in short form, the substance
of such determination upon the appeal or certiorari.

VIII. Appeal.

79. [Amended by Sec. 138, p0st.]
Pleas may order

stay or execution.
Ib., Q 44.

Execution stayed
where bond ﬂied
with judge or

clerk.
P. L. 1856, p. 142.

New appeal bond

substituted.
R. S. 2'29, Q 47.

80. That in all cases oi‘ appeal the court of common pleas to which
such appeal shall be taken, upon iiling of the appeal bond with the clerk
of said court shall, ii‘ they are satisﬁed with the legality and sutliciency of
the same, have power to order a stay of the execution which may have
been issued by the justice, until the said court of common pleas shall
make some further order thereon, a rule to which effect shall be entered
in the minutes of the said court, and a copy thereof certiﬁed by the clerk,
shall he served on the constable in whose hands the execution may be. (a)
81. That if a legal and suliicient appeal bond be ﬁled with any judge
of the court oi’ common pleas to which said appeal shall be taken or if
satisfactory proof be made to him, that such a bond has been ﬁled with the
clerk of said court or with the justice from whose judgment such appeal

was taken, such judge, if the other requirements of the law have been
complied with, shall have power in vacation to order a stay of the execu
tion which may have been issued by the justice, until the said court of
common pleas shall make some further order thereon, a. rule to which
effect shall be entered in the minutes of the said court, and a copy thereof
certiﬁed by the clerk shall be served on the constable in whose hands the
execution may be.
82. That the court of common pleas may permit the appellant to sub
stitute a new appeal bond in the place of the appeal bond ﬁled and sent up
by the justice; provided, that no delay in the trial oi’ the said appeal shall
be occasioned thereby. (b)

83. That the justice who grants an appeal as aforesaid, shall send a

Justice to send up
transcript and
bond.
Ib., 6 54.

transcript of the proceedings and judgment in the said cause, under his

When appeal
may be heard.

oi‘ common pleas to which such appeal is made, on or before the ﬁrst day
of the court next ensuing such appeal. (c)
84;. That either party to an appeal may bring on the hearing thereof
at the term of court to be holden next after the rendering of judgment by
the justice, upon giving notice in writing of such hearing to the opposite
party, at least ﬁfteen days previous, and ﬁling a copy of such notice and

hand and seal, together with the bond aforesaid, to the clerk of the court

(a) Such order could only be made by the court in session,

and not by a single Judge under a general rule.
Reader 4 Hur. 156. See Sec. bi.

Chadwick V.

(b) The common pleas must receive the new bond :it.~h0uld
be dated on the dny when executed. Kemmly v. Ctmgle, 2 ur.

82

Perrine V. Ulle/.srmun.ti Hal. I95.

The “delay" is liiii. to

be limited so as to exclude a build drawn in court, although
a short. delay necessarily ellsues
Egbert v. Tllalr-her, 2 Hr. 77.
If an a peal bond wnliout ti seal has lmen accepted by thejus
rice and)sent up. anutiu-r .-should be substituted be-fore the pleas.
Gurmllrnnt v. Jf¢'(.'Int|d, 3 llr. 462. An appellant may tender n.
aulfirient hond mid the pleas must accept it, although two delec
llve ones lmve bi-en offered unti l‘9_lPClPll.
li'at.nm v. Jifnrplr, 3

Ilur. 8. But a mrmdnmun will not he awarded to l'9Sl"l'!’llll
appeal lllAIlll~.'4i‘d I»--1-arise there WM no subscribing witne~.'4 to
the appeal bond, ililll*.<'l the appellant offered to ext-cute a new
and hllfn(.‘l('lll homl. T/my-pl’. v. Kv>rlrr,3 H-1r. 25l. Nor can the

a pellnnt. undo-r |\9fII\l.'<"lllI'l tn file a new bond, arid tho Milde
v t rwquireti hy imv to he ﬁled with the justice before the ap
peal l.~< L'l‘i\lliI‘li, and nliich he had neglected to ﬁle.

Pints v.

day, it is his duty to send upthe appeal papers on the latter
day. Dyer v. Lmuum, 1 Hm-. 531.
he act is directory only
to the justice, not to the common pleua, who may receive the
perl utter the ﬁrst day ofthe term. Suite v. Bra-gm Gmtmml
ens, Prn. W37. But see Stevens v. Smdatrr-, 2 South. ‘-503. If
thejustioe certiﬁes ll to beatrue lransrrijit from hisdocket, and
annexes his hand and Real, Wlilmut iuit lng '~ witness my hand
and seal," or similar words, it ls suﬂiclent. Ilmry v. Umnplleu,
4Zul1. Hl. See xlflllcr V. Miller. 2lS'ImLlt. ‘F508 (u). Ifthe justigg
has neglected to certify his irun~cnpt, the appellant is elllli led
to a rule on him. Huckenbury v Alpmq/It, 5 V1-. 342. Certiﬂ.
t-ates or inferior courts as to what has tnnispired in their
presence cannot. he contradicted by aiiltlavlts. Ilrnke v. Chmp,
I6 V1‘. 293. It an appellant who has taken an nppenl from a
Justice to the common gleas, does not exercise proper diligence

to have the transcript uly certiﬁed and promptly sent np,and
thereby the respondent loses a trial day, it is within the discre
tion ol the common pleas to tiituniﬂt the appeal. In Iilumlnulus
will not be awarded to comp:-I a court to do what,iu iLsiilSL‘l'9
tion, it might lawfully rviuae to do.

lb.

The common pleas

flunt. 7 IIHI. H2.

may reinstate an appeal dismissed for apparently good cause,

(r) if the nppcnl be demanded on the ﬂrsl. day ofihe term,
and the bond be leﬁ. ut. the house oi thejustice on that day, but

on discovering mistake of law or offact, or where the appellant.

is not received by him, on account of hisabsence, until the next

has a meritorious case.

Lush v. Phat:-1, l5 V1-. 378.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

1881

proof or an acknowledgment. of service with the clerk of said court at least
ten days previous to the ﬁrst da_v oi‘ said term. (a)

85. That the several courts of cotutnou pleas in and for the respective Hv“'et>t>eal
counties of this state, shall ltave cognizance of and hear and detertnine (b) tried.
Tb H5
all such appeals in a summary way, and give jttdgtnent (c) and award
execution thereon with costs (d) either on the affirmance or reversal of the

judgment so appealed.
86. That upon the trial of an_ appeal the same and no other documents,
proofs, and‘ witnesses, (except as ltereittaiter provided), shall be produced
and examined in the said court of common pleas, as had been previously
prodttced and examined in the court below, except where the justice
shall have admitted illegal or rejected legal evidence, or i'or any cause
shall have deemed any witness incompetent to testii'y,antl then such court
of common pleas on the itearing of the said appeal shall reject such illegal
evidence so admitted, and admit such legal evidence so rejected by the
said justice, and shall admit such witness so rejected, if in the judgment
of the said court of common pleas such witness shall be competent to
testify; and if either party to an appeal shall desire to prodttce upon the
trial thereof any witness or witnesses not produced or sworn in the cottrt
below, or any documentary evidettce not oii'ered or admitted itt the
court below, the said party shall be at liberty to do so, and the same shall
be admitted by the court, if otherwise legal and competent, the court
being satisfied that the said evidettce was not withheld on the trial below
for any unfair or fraudulent purpose ; provitled, that the party ﬁrst offering
such new evidence shall have given the opposite party, or his attorney, ten
days’ notice thereof in writing previous to the day of trial, setting forth the
substance of sttch evidence ii‘ docutneutar_y, and the names of the witnesses
intended to be produced at the time of the trial, and upon the production
of such evidence, the opposite party tnay produce new evidence in relntttal
of the same, without notice; and upon the trial of such appeal the tran
script from the docket oi’ the justice shall be conclusive evidence of what
witnesses were produced, anti oi‘ what doctttnents, papers and proofs were
oﬂ'ered in the trial below. (e) [See Sec. 160, pos-t.]

Admission of evi
dence on trial of
appeal.
P. L. 1875, p. 77.

Production of
new evidence.
P. L. 1862, p. 825.
Amended.

Proviso.

Guns, Pen. ‘S05. See Apgar v. Degmw, 4 Dutch. 527. S0, where
the appellee moves to dismiss the appeal. Dnytoit v. Burnrt, 3

obtained before thejustlce is increased, and the appeal was on
that ground, the appellee is entitled to costs, although the
amount of costs awarded by thejustice is reduced. R0m(ltllr' v.

Hal. '.'.-53. The appellant should move the cause, or it will be
dismissed. The appellee is not bound to proceed ex pm-te. Lum

Norris, 3 Hdt. 80. ll‘ plaintifff appeals front udgtneut ltt his
favor, and on appeal receives an increase oi de t and damages,

(a) The appellee is entitled to notlce oi’ trial.

H'oodruﬂ'v.

v. Price, l Hur. 195. It may be reinstated on good cause
shown. Howell v. Vim Nesx, '. ’. i’r. 4-I3. Ft‘/lelit v. Seeds, 3 Har.
166. Appeals from it justice‘:-t t-on rt tnust be put upon the appeal
list at the tirnt term ofthe pleasalterjudgntent rendered, with
<;ut the notice required by this section. Johnson v. 0‘.’Vettt, 17
'1‘. 5i0.
to; The common pleas do ttot act as a court oi‘ errors, but re
hear and retry the cause on the merits. Otrtrlce v. F'ul.w, Pen.
"Z-‘£3. Oherseinnn v. l.vmmrd, ]“'i."l|. "519. I~t_t/rrson v. ilfarscttttis,
1 Hm-. 450. limit:-irks v. Craig, 2 South. °567, 569 ((1). &1'(tdc'r
V. Precholdwrs, 3 (Ir. 433. Srhuyler v. Mills, 4 Dutch. 137. The
appellant cannot move for ajutlgtnent oi‘ non-suit on ajudg
tnent obtained below by the appellee. Rcedv. Ro<'ap,4 Hut.
347. Nor can he. in such C1148, obtain anon suit by withdrawing.
Williamson v. Brown, 5 Hut. ‘Z96. Vdnnoy v. Givens, 3 Zab. 201.
If they non-suit wrongfully thelrjudgment will be reversed,
and the (muse teniitted for trial. Blmr v. Snovcr, 5 Hat. 153. A
reversal ofajutlgmeut ot the pleas, which reverses that ofthe
justice, does not restore that oi the justice. Small v. Wm-tl, 3
Hal. 30.2. -S'~tor-Ir v. 'I’hrockntorton, 3 Hut. 216. Steamboat ('0. v.
Flanagan. I2 l't'. llti.
(cl See form of entering judgment. Ilcndricks v. Cram, 2
South "569. The pleas may give judgment for more or less
than the jtt.-nit-e did.
ll'oodru[f v. Crn-n.c,Pe1t.*50ﬁ. But not
for more than one hundred dollars, besides costs. Glovcrv.

he is not entitled to costs ofappeal on aiilrmant-e.

Costs on

appeal will only be given to a successihl party who ha.~judg
tnent in his favor on an appeal.
Redstrakc v. Swttyzr, '23 l'r. I32.

House! v. Higgins, l8 I r. 7'2.

(e) The common pleas, in the admission ofevlileitee, are cott
ﬂned to the same documents and witnesses. as were admitted

before the justice. Sundfm-it v. ]l00t'4'1', Pm. ‘H00. Where a
deposition of a witness (who was sick '1 was offered and over
ruled by thejustice, the witness ltlmselicannot he admitted on
the trial of the appeal. ll'm-d v. Small, 2 Hut. 40: criticised in
Ramsey v. Dumartt, 4 Hm: 69. Unless the other party has been
notified, and the pleas are satisiietl, &c. Rynuvon v. .'1[l.l1'8(.’llll8, 1
Har. -i-'10. In,/1'(t,Sec I37. Formerly lite pnlltlnalld materiality of
the new \VlUI08SB.‘i'lQSliII10ll)' were set out in the notice. Honglttnd
v. Nevins, 2 Hal. 75. if it appear that the party knew the facts or
knew that the witness knew them previous to the trial belore the
justice,such witness ought to be excluded. tmliclr v. 7'/tompson, 7
Hal. H9. The evidence must be newly discovered. Sheri-on v.
Httmphreys, 2 (Ir. ‘Z17. That it is only cumulative does ttol ex
clude it. R_t/arson v. Marseilles, l Hrtr. 450. The witnesses sworn
below may testify to new or additional facts, without not ice, &c.
I/oorhees v. Hendrickson, 5 Dutrh. 101. Reed v. Romp, 4 Hal. 347.
Ramsdcn v. Bryden, 2 V1‘. 27. If a competent witness has been
examined below, or offered and rejected, his deposition may be
read, ii‘ he is dead or ottt ofthe stale, &c. Rmn.sr_i/ v. Dumars, 4

.\'or more than the plaitttiﬂclaimed in his

Hm". 66. Qua‘;/—\Vhether what a witness testiiied below may

state of demand. lIou'k v. Anderson, 4 Hut. 3l9. Lake v. ﬂier
1'tlt,5 Hrtt. 288. 'l‘he_v must specify the amount of debt or
damages and co~t.~t. lvins v. Schootey, 3 Hm". 269. Dore1nu.t v.
Hotmrd, 3 Znb. 390. Jones V. Pitmrm, 7 Hal. 93. li'oodr1t[T V.
Bad_qt1-y. 7 Hal. 367. Smrlon v. Lmulht, 1 Hm". 304. It may be
remitted for correction. Blair v. Srtmter, 5 Hot. 15-i. If on
appeal a verdict is rendered for less than the sum before the
justice, the pleas should reverse the judgment below. Cheese
mm: v. Gide, 4 Zab. 632. They cannot reverse because thejudg
ment of the justice is not entered in legal form. lllrtrtin v.
Thomp.mn,5 Hat. l-12. A judgment of the pleas that did not
state that any evidence was heard, held prima facie good.
Barcklow v. I{utchinson,3 Vr. 195. I t‘ the pleas are equally
divided, they must retry cause. .S'trader v. Fre'e"h0tders, 3
Gr 433.
(at The amount of costs must be speciﬁed. Wood:-1117 v. Badg
try, 7 Hal. 367. An entry " with costs to be taxed " is defective.
Cbok v. Bristcr,4 Har.73. If the judgment oi‘ thejustlce is
reduced in amount the appellee is not entitled to costs. Robin

be proved on the appeal by a person not sworn before thejus
tlce. Johnson V. Prnnt'n{/ton, 3 Gr. 188. Rttntsry v. l)um(tr.t, 4
Hat‘. 66. See Stoltn V. Sll1lUll€1‘-1. Spcn. 66. Jcssttp \'. (look-,1 Ifal.
434. Kutznu yer v. Ennts,3 Dtttrh. 372. Camden and Amhoy R. It.
Cb. V. Stewart, 4 C. E. Gr. 343. Tm*n('1' v. Hdiltl, 3 li'utl. Jr. 88.
Formerly the transcript oi‘ thejustice was not ronctttstw: as to
what witnesses, documents, &c., were produced below. (‘rams v.
Ward, Pen. *650. Nor was it necessary for thejustlce to enter
on his docket written evidence. Mmmino v. Rmulotph, l South.
*i~H. Gusher V. Peterson, 1 South. *3l8. Sutton v. Petty, 2 South.
*50-1. And whether the witnesses have been sworn or the evi
dence oﬂ'ered below was determined oy thejustlceﬂs certiﬁcate,
or the oath of witnesses. Rontwy v. Dumnrs, 4 Hnr. 66. \\’here

O')llins,3 Httr ".232.

son v. Hedges, Pen. ‘$88. Where the amount of the damages

either part_v wishes to introduce new evidence on the trial of
the a peal under this section, ten days’ notice of the intention
to o er such evidence must be given, and it will then become
the duty of the common pleas to postpone the trial to such day,
that the new evidence can be received. Johnson v. O'Neil, 17
Vr. 510.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

i882

87. [Repealed by Sec. 149, p0st.]
88. [Amended by Sec. 150, post]
Judgment on

report of referees
reviewed.
'.b., Q 50.

89. That if such judgment shall have been rendered upon the report of
referees, the court of common pleas to which such appeal shall be made,
shall have power to inquire into such .report of referees, and the judgment
thereupon, and either to affirm or set aside the same for the same causes
and upon the same principles as reports of referees are set aside in such
court in other cases, and to award a trial before themselves, if need be, in

No non-suit on
trial oi appeal.
Ib., E 51.

the same manner as is directed in other cases. (a)
90. 'l‘hat the provisions of the forty-fourth section of this act, shall apply
as well to causes on appeal before the court of common pleas as to causes
pending before the justice. (b)

91. [Amended by Sec. l5l, posh]
Justice who tried
case not to sit.
Ib , I 53.

Entry of rule
necessary to

make Judgment
lien on land.
P. L. I862, p. 219,

Q I.
Clerk to record
such Judgment.

lb , Q 2.

92. That no justice oi‘ the peace who heard and determined the said
cause, shall sit as a judge of any of the courts of common pleas, on the
hearing and determining of the same cause on appeal. or give any opinion
thereon.
93. That judgments of the court of common pleas upon appeals from
the courts for the trial of small causes shall not affect or bind any lands,
tenements, hereditaments or real estate, unless a rule shall be entered in
the mintttes of the court of common pleas in which such judgment shall
be rendered, for recording such judgment, which rttle shall be a rule of
course, attd may be entered at any time without notice.
94. That it shall be the duty of the clerk of the several courts of common
pleas, upon the entry of such rule as aforesaid, to record any such judg
ment in the book of judgments of said court, and index the same, as now
reqttircd by law respecting the judgments of such courts in suits originally
comtnenced therein, which record shall be a transcript from the minutes of
the said court on said judgment, and for this service the clerk shall be
entitled to receive twenty-ﬁve cents; and such judgments shall, from the
time of entering such rule, affect and hind all lands, tenements, heredita
tnents and real estate, within the county where such court of common pleas
is held, belonging to the person or persons against whom sttch judgment
may be; and executions against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements,
hereditamcnts and real estate of such person or persons, may be issued out
of such court of common pleas thereupon, immediately upon the entry of
such rule.
IX. Certiorari.

Judgment re
viewed only by
eertiurari.
R. 5., ‘I29, Q 86.

No certiorari
allowed where
appeal lies.

1b., Q 67.
Amended.

95. That no judgment, order or proceeding, to be had or made by virtue
of this act, shall be removed by writ of error, but by certiorari only.
96. That wltere the justice has jurisdiction, no judgment hereafter to be
rendered in any court for the trial of small causes, frotn which an appeal
is given to the court of common pleas by this act, shall be removed into
the supreme court or circuit court by certiorari or otherwise, for the cor
rection of any supposed error therein; but the party thinking himself
aggrieved shall have relief upon the appeal only, and that both as to
matter of law and matter of fact. (c)

How certlorari
obtained.
Ib., Q 68.
Reasons.

97. That no justice of the snpretne court shall grant or allow any cer
tiorari to remove any judgment, order or proceeding, to be had by virtue
of this act. ttuless the party applying for such certiorari, shall present to

(fl) The aflidnvlt must be ﬂied the same as on opjlrenl from a
jttsiict-‘sjttdgmettt. Ciulemun v. ll'm-ne, 4 Hal. 290. he powers
<-f the pleas are the same as in other cases of appeal. Ihylor v.
Vnmlrrltoof, 2 Gr. 2i-4.
Z‘(b) !)m-mmta v. 1~low(|rd, 3 Zab. 800.
Lb. 57.

Bogerl v. Chigt/slle, 4

re) A refusal ofajustice to adjmtrn aoause cannot. be removed
by rrrliorarl. Gould v. B1-own,l Hal. I65. The issuing ofnn
execution by a justice, being a. proceeding (|i~"lln(‘l. from the
judgment. may lw |'0'Vi£‘\\‘0(l by r(rl|m‘nt'l. Iﬁtuneirk v. Kru
mrlrk, '2 Hr. 39. rive Ilinrhmrm v. (hok, Spm. 27i. Judgments
by confeasion are still to be removed by rm-liorurl only. Riller
v. Kimklr, I0 l'r. 259. As to all other ca.se1twhere the ustice
has jurisdiction in the sense of the act. relief can only
had
by appeal in the common pleas. lh. When the justice has no

such jurisdiction, the remedies by appeal and ceTtl'ornrt' are

concurrent.

lb. J-filhnnn v. Stanger, ‘Z0 Vr. lei. It is n pro

case for certlomri. where the question is fairly raised, whet tet
the justice hall authority to render any jutltztnent between the
parties. Drake v. Berry, l3 Vr. 60. Where there has been a
trial by jury on an appeal. a hl\l‘i_\' cannot object. on cu-llnmri
tn the pleas. that the jury below was illegally suntmonerl.
Roblm v. Marlin, 15 Vr. R68. On ma-Uorm-o removing jndtzntent
in ll. Justice's court l\ﬂ1(|i\VlU\ are not. l\t1I‘lll\“(ll'l|t‘ in the first
instance to show what facts a neared bi-lore thejttstlce. ll'uhr
mm: v. Horan, I7 Vr. 4&3. \ hPI9 |'lllrPlldl\\'\l appeared althe
trial, and the justice l]ﬂ*4_|llI'l!l'll|"ll(I|i of the cause, appeal is the
only remedy. lb. See Meir-I v. Rtntxomflﬁ l’1'. 383. On ¢'r'rIim'm1
the judgment below will not be reversed unless the errors oom

plained ofttppear on the face of the papets.
Jlon, 20 I'r. 6%.

Barclay v. Brub

JUSTICES’ COURTS.
the said justice the reasons therefore, drawn up in writing and subscribed
by himself or some attorney-at-law, and the same to be deemed by the
said justice to contain a probable cause for allowing such certiorari ; (a)
and also, unless such applicant shall enter into bond to the other party
in the sum of one hundred and ﬁfty dollars, with one or more good
surety or sureties, conditioned, that such applicant shall prosecute the
said certiorari in the supreme court, shall pay the sum recovered in the

1883

Bond.

court below, with interest and costs, if the judgment be atiirmed, and shall,

in all things, stand to and abide thejudgment of the said supreme court
respecting the judgment, order or proceeding given or made by the court
below; which said bond shall likewise be tendered to the justice granting
such certiorari, to be by him ﬁled with the clerk of the supreme court, for
the beneﬁt of the obligee therein named, and on failure thereof, no certio
rari shall be allowed. (b)

98. That such certiorari shall be determined and adjudicated upon by
the supreme court, at the ﬁrst term alter due return thereof shall be made,
or be dismissed with costs, unless the said court shall think proper to
adjourn the same till the next term, for further argument and advisement. (0)
99. That if any judgment, to be given by virtue of this act, shall, on
removal by certiorari, be aﬂirmed by the supreme court, the plaintifff in
eertiorari shall pay to the defendant all costs arising on such suit in the
said supreme court, for which the party entitled to such costs, may have
execution, to be issued out of the supreme court against the body, or
goods and chattels of the adverse party ; but if such judgment be reversed,
then the plaintiﬂ‘ in certiorari shall not be entitled to any costs. (d)
100. That the provisions of the last three preceding sections of this act
shall extend to the circuit courts in the several counties of this state. (e)

101. That nojudgment of any justice of the peace, removed by certiorari
before the supreme court or circuit court, shall be reversed in the whole on
account of any error or mistake made by the justice by whom such judg
ment may have been rendered, in the entering, calculating on awarding of
the costs of suit, but such judgment shall only be reversed so far as respects
the said error or mistake; which error or mistake the court are hereby
empowered to correct. (g)
102. That in case-any judgment be so affirmed in part and reversed in
part. neither party shall pay costs in eertiorari to the other.
103. That it shall not be lawful for the supreme court or circuit court
to reverse any judgment of any court for the trial of small causes, for any
irregularity in the proceedings of such court, unless such irregularity tends
to defeat or impair the substantial right or interest of the party in certiorari
praying such reversal. (h)
104. That if in any cause or proceeding removed by certiorari, it shall
appear equitable and just that a rehearing thereof be had before ajustice,
the supreme court or circuit court may order that such rehearing be had

when adjudi

cared.

Ib., Q so.

Costs on sfﬂrm
nnce, but not on
reversal.
Ib., i 70.

Jurlsdiollon of
circuit court.
Ib., Q 71.
What errors or
mistakes cor
reeled.
Ib., Q 72.

Costa.
Ib., Q 73.
Judgments not
reversed for mere
irregularity.

Ib., Q 74.

When justice of
supreme court
may order re
hearing.

upon such terms and conditions as are reasonable, and the justice shall

thereupon proceed to rehear said cause or proceeding and give judgment as
in other cases. (1')
(a) The reasons ought to be ﬂied Willrln thirty days after the
return of ihe writ. Bell v. Bergen, 2 Gr. I-‘ll. But further time
may be illlowed for Rood cause shown. Balliuaer v. Sher-ron, 2
Gr. H4. Slulr. v. I\'irb_'l. ‘Z Snufh. '83-5.

(0) It is not lxccessaryihal. ihe puny enterlnto bond.
v. Gould. i'r;h., 1838.

Grier

A bond must be given on acrrttorm-i tn

the pleas to remove a_|urigmenr.glven by ih»-m on appeal. Bril
lantine \'. lVrib!r, '_' fir. ?Ji5. Theconrllllon ofihe bond is broken

if ihe rI.rl!0rm'!i-1 (li!4l1]l5S0d ior want of prosecution.
‘V. Young, 4 IQ’. 316.

Muryolt
.

(0) The l'I‘ll)ll1IlI to dismiss for want of prosecution may be
lllalle at any lvrm aller ihe default. Anonymmu, 1 .Hm'. 391.
(d) N0 cents nu" rrde-l uu rever.~nl 1 rrrur on nlllrmance. Jew

ell v. Amwlne, (.'.,.ce Ii-Q. If qllilillrd for want of Jurisdiction,
lin-. ii»-reuriant is enili led lo 1‘-r\l'4. Dffmly/omrry v. Bruerr, 6
Ilul. I63. lflhn execullou be .‘1Pll\'4lflP, although lhnjuilgrnent
be ulllrmed, me plllnllﬂ’ shall IIOL pay costs. Him-mnnn v.
(bolt-, Nnlll. 271. On allowance of B motion for restitution,
ggllllﬁls enmled l0 coals. Hﬂﬂﬂ v. M'r'(,bl~mIcIc, i South. H09.
. unlr, p. 3138,

8.

Randolph v. Rn;/lea, Pm. '5'].

Where

piarnlllfln mrtlomrl |Sﬂl|U\\'(‘(| cos!!! by order or ihe court such
costs become an incident to iirejudgmenl and may he enforced
by execullon,and attachment will not be allowed. Rittzr v.

Kunklc, 10 Vr. 6lB. Where there is an order or rule lo poycosll
or money, which cannot. be enforced by execution, s wrll. of
attachment may issue. lb. See Eve:-hnni \'. 1-lullt, I6 V1‘. 60.
(0) The elrculis have not jurisdiction in mailers of taxation.

Blnlr, I)u_ﬁ'm'¢l v. Dfrur, 2 I’1'. 30;!
(11) Smith v. l|'llliIirn.wm, 6 Hut. SI3. Gill v. Hncfiley, Rm.
9920. Hlll V. H'erlm'l, Pen. #924. Kerr V. Phillipa, 2 Slmlll. "820.

Chrueman v. Curlr, 4 Zab. 63;’.
(Ir) An irrelzularity in the common PIPM is nol saved by this
necllnmnnd the supreme C1 -nrt will revere-e lherefor. ll/iclmlaon
v. Wood, 301-. Mil. A in-izmeni. nu appeal by il|r= pleas will not

be reversed for an error m‘ |in~Jusiii-i-. in the mine mum»

Ohert

v. ll'hi'¢rhrnd. 4 Hut "115. Irndmhnuflh v. Rn~vh|I1'.1/. 4 Z410. 49l.
Ilfndrcrks V. Cru.i(|, Z-Simlh. “$69 in J.
Vrmnuy \'. lihnlmx, 3 Zllb.
20!. See Hale, Ilium v. swim 4I1n!PU_I/, ll V1-. 275. It sex-ms ln

such case the court may Inspect ihe trans:-ript oi‘ the justice.
Dancer‘ v. ('5-ntmr. -'1 Hui. 255. (11ul1~r1, Philhrurrr v. lhrrrhnvn. 7
Hui. 69. VVhere mun HIP judzment of ihe justice and lhal of
the pleas are wrong, lvolh will be set aside.

Clark; v. Fulre,

Pm. #263.
(I) Where there has been n mlslrlnl of the cause below. the
supreme courl may, under this ~eclinn,ordera. rehearing before
the Justice. Druke v. Berry, i3 l'r. 60.

1884

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

X. Costs.
Fees.

105, That in all actions which may be brought by virtue of this act, the

P. L. 1871, p. us,
1.

following and no other fees shall be allowed:

ll. S. 229, Q 86.
Amended.
JUSTICES.

Summons, twenty-ﬁve cents;
Each copy thereof, ten cents ;
Warrant, twenty-ﬁve cents;
Order that warrant issue, ﬁfty cents;
Entering each suit, twenty cents;
Recording return on summons, ten cents;

Recognizance, thirty-ﬁve cents ;
Entering every non-suit, twenty cents;
Entering discontinuance, twenty cents;
Venire facias, thirty-ﬁve cents ;

Administering every oath or aﬂirmation, ten cents;
Subpoena for every witness, ten cents;

Swearing the jury, thirty-ﬁve cents;
Entry of every verdict, twenty cents;
Entry ofevery rule of reference, ﬁfty cents ;
Every copy thereof, twenty-ﬁve cents ;
Entry of every judgment, twenty cents;
Every execution, thirty-ﬁve cents;
Recording return of execution, ﬁlteen cents;
Drawing, signing and sealing return to certiorari, one dollar;
Copy of docket or of any proceeding or paper, per folio, ﬁfteen cents;
Transcript of judgment, ﬁfty cents;
Entering suit without process, ﬁfty cents;
Filing each paper requiring to he ﬁled, ten cents ;
Issuing commission to take deposition, twenty-live cents;
Recording return of commission, one dollar and ﬁfty cents;

Entering particulars of costs, ﬁfteen cents;
Every aﬂidavit, twenty-ﬁve cents;

- Every adjournment, twenty cents;

Hearing every contested case, seventy-ﬁve cents;
Hearing case not contested, twenty-ﬁve cents ;
Granting appeal and sending up transcript and papers, ﬁfty cents;
Recording description of each paper oﬁered in evidence, seven cents;
Approving bond, ﬁfty cents;
Taking deposition, per folio, ﬁfteen cents ;
Scire facias, thirty-ﬁve cents.
CONSTABLES.

Constables.

Serving every summons on one defendant, sixty cents; _
And for service thereof on every additional defendant in the same sum
mons, thirty cents;
Serving every warrant, against one or more persons, for each person,
seventy-live cents;
Serving every scire facias, against one or more persons, for each person,
sixty cents;
Serving every subpoena, thirty-ﬁve cents;

Summoning every jury of six men, seventy-ﬁve cents:
Summoning every jury of twelve men, one dollar;
Atteudingjnry until agreed on their verdict, ﬁfty cents;
Serving every execution, seventy-five cents ;
In addition to which three cents on each dollar secured to the plaintifff;
Advertising property under execution, thirty-ﬁve cents ;

JUSTIUES’ COURTS.

1885

Selling property under execution, ﬁfty cents;
For every copy of an execution ﬁled with the jailer, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For every mile of travel in serving any summons or warrant, issued by
a justice of the peace, after the ﬁrst mile, the distance computed by count
ing the number of miles in and out, by the most direct route from the
place where such process is issued and returnable, four cents.

JURORS.

For all cases tried, twenty-ﬁve cents a man ;
VVhen summoned to attend, and cause not tried, ﬁfteen cents a man.

Jurors.

WITNESSES

For their services under sections 116th and ll'4'th of this act, ﬁfty-cents; Wlmwﬁ
For all other services the same fees as are or shall be allowed in causes Fm °"“PP"1

before the court of common pleas; provided, that no fees shall be allowed ﬁﬁégféim‘
for the services of any subpmnas, for more than two witnesses, nor shall
fees be allowed to more than two witnesses for each party in a cause. (a)

'

106. On all appeals as aforesaid, heard and determined in.the court of

common pleas. the following and no other fees shall be allowed :

COURTS.

Every appeal heard, ﬁfty cents.

coun
CLERKS.

Entering action and ﬁling bond and transcript, ﬁﬂzy cents ;

Clerk.

Every subpoena, ten cents;

Entering judgment, ten cents;
Every witness sworn or aﬂlrmed, ten cents;
Every order or rule of court, or ofa judge, ten cents ;
Every execution, forty cents ;
Entering and ﬁling execution, twenty cents;
Calling and swearing a jury, twenty cents ;
Taking and entering verdict, ten cents;
Docketing judgment and ﬁling transcript and aﬂidavit, seventy-ﬁve
cents.
SEER] FF.

Making out and returning a list of the jury, twenty cents.

Sherlff,

CONSTABLES.

Serving_ every subpoena, thirty-ﬁve cents ;

Coneuable.

Attending jury, ﬁfty cents.
CRIERS.

Every appeal, ten cents ;
Calling and swearing each witness, ﬁve cents;
Calling jury, ten cents.
ll
f
l t
'l
. ‘€{?‘h’L"£é’?LJié’(i?Z;L¢
‘
. ‘
Pzn(a.)°cl§!.m;tackwdZ0wed"v'.‘2‘l.it,"’1°,£§..iL‘.°“3ii¢.

Crler.

Y
.
5-‘.‘- 31‘.l','$i.'y',°£§.”. ~"%h‘."° ‘“"‘°“°”
“‘°“°“ """ ““°“"“'
°°'"”‘

I886

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

TO THE JURORS.
J Lll‘0I‘5.

The same fees as are allowed in other cases in the court of common pleas.

J [DUE Olt COMMISSIONER.

Judge, &c.

Who to pay the
jury of twelve
men.
lb., Q 23.

Supreme court justice, law judge or commissioner, for hearing applica
tion to set aside order, one dollar.

107. That when the plaintifff, in any action of debt, shall demand a jury
of twelve men, and such jury shall ﬁnd a sum in favor of the plaintiﬂ‘, not
exceeding ﬁfty dollars, and not less than ten dollars, then the plaintiti shall

pay one-half of the costs of the jury; and if the sum found by such jury in
favor of the plaintifff be less than ten dollars, then the plaintifff shall pay
the whole costs of the jury.
Ofsix men.
ro.. Q 24.

When constable
not required to
serve process.
P. L. 1858, p. 477,

41.
Fees ofjustice to
be pnld before
appeal.

Fees to be paid
before hearing
of appeal.
P. L. 1857, p. 558,
i ‘.’..
Acts 1870, |J. 109.

108. That when the plaintiﬂ‘, in an action of debt, shall demand a jury
of six men, and such jury shall ﬁnd a sum in favor of the plaiutitf, under
ten dollars, the plaintiﬂ' shall pay the whole costs of thc jury. (a)
109. That no constable or other oﬂicer, authorized to serve a suhp<cna.
summons or other mesne process issued out of the court for the trial of

small causes, shall be required to serve such process until his legal fees
and mileage for so doing shall have been paid to the oiﬁcer of whom such
service is required.

110. That no appeal from the judgment ofajustice shall be allowed until.
thc party applying for the same shall, in addition to the matters now required
by law, pay to said justice all costs incurred by him except such as shall be
ad‘udged to the prevailing party.
11. That the fee of the court for hearing the appeal, and the fces of the
clerk for entering the action and ﬁling the bond and transcript, shall bc
paid in the ﬁrst instance by the appellant; if he refuse to pay the same
before the hearing, the court shall, on application of the clerk, refuse to
hear such appellant and the appcllee, if he will pay the same, may move

Amended.

the court to make, and the court may thereupon make such disposition of

the case as if the appellant failed to appear and prosecute his appeal.

XI. Miscellaneous.
1. A.\iE‘.\‘DMENT.
Amendments
made.

a.

:29, 9 49.

112. That when judgment shall have been rendered upon the verdict of
the jury, the court of common pleas, to which such appeal shall be made,
shall. before they proceed to hear and determine the same, amend the pro
cess, proceeding, verdict and judgment in all things which by the act
entitled “ An act respecting amendment and jeofails,”arc amendable on
writs of error, after verdict in other courts; and if it should be incon

Provisions ol‘seo
tlou 138 of“ Prac

tice Act" extend
ed to Justice's
court.

In case ol’ob
ection.

venicnt, actually to make such amendments, then everything so amend
able. shall he taken and considered as amended, and proceeding shall be
had thereupon, as if the same had been actually done. _
113. That the provisions of the one hundred and thirty-eighth sec
tion of an act entitled “ An act to regulate the practice of the courts
of law," are hereby extended to the courts constituted by this act, and to
the courts of common pleas on an appeal taken thereto; provided, that if"
any objections be made before thc justice by either party, in any cause,
upon the return day or upon thc trial or hearing of the same to any pro
cess or pleading in respect to any matter which might be amended by the
justice under the provisions of said section of said act, and no such

(0) Query Whether Pat. p. 3i7, Q 2|, provldinz that when
either party to a suit * * '4 shall demand a jury of twelve

men, who ﬁnd in favor oi‘ the applicant above rive and not
exceeding sixteen dullum. the a pllcantshall pay <mc.~hnlfoftl|e
costs of such Jury, and if un er live dollars the whole costs,

and when either party demand ajury ofslx who ﬁnd iu favor
of the applicant under ﬁve dollars, then the applicant toga! all
the costs of such jury, is ln force as l(| juries deman M W
dI’f¢‘1tLl(I7lf-1, or by either party iu cases of tort.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.
amendment shall be made before
then it shall not be in the power
trial of the appeal, to amend or
pleading in respect. of any of the
relate or were made. (a)

1887

tiie conclusion of the trial or hearing,
of the court of common pleas, on the
to order amended the said process or
matters to which such objections shall

114. That if the constable’s return to any summons or warrant be
dei'ective, and such constable has, in point oi’ fact, complied with all the
requirements of this act, in serving such writ, whether the defendant

Amendment in
common pleas.

Defective return
oi consiable may
be amended,
when.

appears or does not appear, and whether he objects or does not object,
such constable may amend his return in such manner as to make it con
form to the fact ; provided, he do so on or before the return day.

2. anraaascss.

115. That in every suit to be instituted before anyjustice of the peace
by virtue of this act, and in every appeal to be made before any court of
common pleas, it shall and may be lawful for such justice of the peace, or
court of common pleas, as the case may be, with the assent and at the

Rules oi‘ refer
ence to be en

iered.
R. S. 229, Q 55.
Amended.

request of the parties, to enter rules of reference of the matters in differ
ence, to such person or persons as shall be nominated and agreed upon by
and between the parties; and the reference so made shall and may be con
ducted in the same manner in all respects, as directed in the case of refer
ences by rule of court, in and by the act entitled “An act for regulating
references, and determining controversies by arbitration,” and the report
of the said referee or referees, or the major part of them, whether in favor
of the piaintiti or defendant, appellant or appeliee, shall be ﬁnal and con

clusive to the parties, judgment shall be entered thereon with costs, and
execution issued accordingly. (b)
3. DEPOSITIONS.

116. That if a material witness in an action, instituted in the said court
for the trial of small causes, be in the state, but is ancient or very infirm.
or is sick, or is bound on a voyage, or is about to go out of the state, the
deposition of such witness may, at the option of either party, be taken
before a justice of the peace; provided, the person at whose request the
deposition is to be taken, shall cause notice to be given to the adverse
party of the time and place, and before whom the deposition shall be
taken, immediately, or at such short day as the cause in the opinion of the
said justice may require, to attend and be present at the taking thereof,
and to put questions, and cross-examine, ii" he shall think ﬁt; and a depo
sition so taken and otfered in evidence, shall be subject to the same 1'uies
and exceptions that the witness would be if personally present.(c)
117. That every person deposing as last aforesaid, shall be carefully
examined

and

cautioned, and sworn or affirmed, to testify the whole

Deposition of
witnem, when
taken.
Ib., I 79.
Notice required.

Such deposition

how taken.
1b., Q 80.

truth, and shall subscribe the testimony by him or her given, after the
same shall be reduced to writing, which shall be done only by the magis
(n) Where a note was ﬂied as a slate of demand, if the
gp|wil5Ill harl moved the pleaslo nonsuiton that I;l'0und,lhPy

might have allowed a state oi demand I0 he then filed. -§'l(’.u.'rn'd
v. .~;mr.v, 1 Vr. I73, 175. Bulls v. French. l3 Vr. 337. Anomis
sion in the summons to describe the justice of the peace lsof
me counzy for which he is elected. is cured by appearance and
proceeding without objection and is also ainendable under this
sr-clinn. I)-'0/cc v. Berry, I3 Fr. 60. \Vhere ofilectlon is made
in the court for the trial ofmnali causes, and no motion made
In amend there, amendment cannot subsequently be made.
Fine V. High Bridge M. E (‘Inn-r-Ii, I5 V1‘. 148. Brunt v.
Fmetirh, 20 Fr. 338. Davis v. Osborne, 22 V1‘. I02. Jones v.
Ox)/:. 25 VT. 5l6.
(la) it must be with the consent of parties. Scllmlry v.

Thnrnz, ('01-r 7i.

And there must be an ncliun actually de

pending. Burr-ounh.r v. Gcmmy/. Pen. H03.
I'ru.!sc'r v. Rich
ur|Lr. Pvn. ‘i377.
Ogzlrn. v. Dildlnr, I'(n.*-H3 (0). Thejuslica
himself cannot be one of them. (‘mus v. Jimul, Pm. '4i3. (0).
Li/Ile v. .S'iIv:¢'1-(rim-nr, Pm. #680. Royirrs v. Woodmmue, Pm».
#954. They Illllril be sworn. H£(‘l‘€8 v. G017, Pen. ‘H3. Parker

V. Crammer, Pen. *‘.”il.

Oﬂniriier v. Mzzlliis. Pen. *550.

And

it should appear on the docket.

ID. But it is suﬂicient if in the

report. Swiiy/zv v. Riddtr, Hm. *660. A report nf lwo on 9.
reference to three. is not binding
Reeve: v. (iujf, Prn. ‘I43.

All must act. Iloj v. ﬂhytor, 2 Soulh. ‘B29. A verbal report is
void. Slrrlmmi v. Stewart, Pen. *3l6. And one made aiter the
time limited. ii'Iu'l!r v. Kembte, Pen. Mel. II. cannot bealtered
by two referees after its delivery.

Eglnrl v. Smilh, Pm. ‘"923.

On a submission by an administrator, hislurilviduul accounts
must not be investigated. Mmitlord v. Vannmlulcn,2SnuUi.
H386. Judgment must be entered thereon by the justice. Ruwrn
v. Lnnning, Pm. ‘I39.

Fleming, Pen. ‘$52.

Johnson v. Jolmxon Pr/n. *3l7.

Swuyze v. Riddlr. Plm. ‘"660.

Lilli: v.

And noticeis

necessary to the losing parly.
Fuirholmc v. 1"b1'k¢r, Pm. ‘P995.
Pin-um v. Pl8TJ07l, 2 Hal. 125. Demand need not be ﬂied. Am-er v.

Burt. Pen. W39.
Prickell, Rm. ‘H268.

And a defect therein is cured.
And not tiling it in time

Bozm-In v.

Chance v. Cham

bers, Pen. *384. And mistake in the form oi‘ action. Ap):i¢'yu1e
v. Schureman, Pen. #868.
(c) It may be taken before the justice before whom the cause

9 is pending. Burley v. Kilchrll, iS)xn. :05. Notice rnuslbe given
to the party.

Wilson v. cm-“cu, 1 Soulli. *ll7 ta).

1388

JUSTICES' COURTS.

And transmitted
to court.

Copies allowed.

\\'hat provi-iion

of" Evidence '
Act" applicable.
Ih., § Si.

trate taking the deposition, or by the deponent, in his presence, and the
deposition, so taken, shall he retained by such magistrate until he deliver
the same, with his own hand, into the court for which it was taken, or
shall he by him, the said magistrate, sealed up, directed and transmitted to
such court, and remain under his seal until opened in court, and when
so opened, the same shall be deposited in the office ofthejustice before
whom the action shall be brought, there to remain on record, and that
either oi‘ the parties in the said action or suit, may, at his or her cost and
charges, take copies of such deposition as soon as it is deposited in the
office as aforesid. (a)
118. That the provisions of the act entitled “ An act concerning evidence
for taking the testimony oi‘ witnesses residing out of this state,”so i'ar as
the satne can be applied, he and they are hereby extended to the courts
for the trial of small causes.
4. JUSTICES-—Tl'lElR DUTIES AND DOCKETS.

119. That it shall be the duty oi‘ every justice of the peace, before

Justice's docket,
entries in.

whom any suit shall be instituted, to enter in a book, to be kept for that
purpose, the names ofthe plaintifff and defendant, (b) the style and nature
oi’ the action, (c) the sum demanded, the time of issuing process, and when
returnable, (d) the return made thereto by the constable, when the copy

Ih., Q 56.
4-\mendt*d.

of the account, or state of the demand, or set-off, was delivered by the
parties, or either of them, (e) the time of taking the recognizance, of

making or ﬁling any order, the adjournment, (g) the rule of reference, and
report of referees, (h) the jury, (ti) when and by whom demanded, the venire,

Purl)’ entitled to

certitied cnpy.

Justice to enter
full bill ofcosts.

l‘. L. 1858, P. 49§8.

Justice out or
oillce muy give
transcripts.

R. S. 229, Q 58.

when issued and how returned, the time of trial, and names oi‘ the jurors
and witnesses, (lc) the admission of evidence objected to, and the rejection
of evidence ofl'ered,a description oi‘ each paper 0ﬂ'ered in evidence, the
verdict and judgment (I) and when given, the execution or executions, when
issued, the indorsement thereon, and how returned by the constable,(m)
the appeal,(n) when and by whom demanded. and all the proceedings
before him had, touching the said suit; (0) and further, it shall be the
duty oi? such justice to grant to either party, when required, a certiﬁed
copy of such proceedings.
120. That it shall be the duty of thejustice before whom any judgment
is rendered, to make out and enter upon his docket a full hill oi‘ costs in
the case, specii'_ving each item, and the fees for the same, and the amount
paid him hy each party.
121. That every justice of the peace, whose term oi‘ oiiice has expired, or
may hereafter expire, or who has resigned,or may hereafter resign. shall
and may, when required so to do, make out transcripts from his docket
or dockets, under his hand and seal, and certify them as latejustice of the
peace; which said transcripts, so certiﬁed, shall be used as evidence in alt

(I!) And aiilduvits oi‘non~residence, am. oi‘ witnesses be pree

muted. Hciulr-irks v. Craig, 2 South. ‘F567. It ought to appear
on the deposition that the witness was cautioned, ac. Stewart
v. Boumn, Pen. 9959. Although nut indispensable. b'enlr_I/ v.
Iﬁlchell, Spen. 805.

Clayton v. ibu

Gould v. Mame, Pm. ‘475.

Li) And the names oi‘ the jurors and witnesses.
Boyle, l'\m. "I207. Sllclman v. Boulton, Pen. “3'Zl.

Kindle, Pen. "‘660.

Anln, pp. 1402 to l-I08, H-06".

(D) stating the initials only is not suﬂicient.

that the constable was sworn.
lmrnel v. Shcldon, Pen. *522.

Lindslcy v.
Duughly v.

That the witnesses were sworn will be

Ashcroft v. Clark, 2 South. *577. I‘ie'rson v. Pierson, 1 Hal. 168.
Bilderlmrk v. P0mtr1',‘3 Hr|l.6~i. “Sulnmonsln debt,thirty-one
dollars and twenty-nine cents, issued February 25th, 1830," is

presumed although not stated on the docket. Dounhly v. Rzcd,
Pen. "J02.
(kl Au entry that " dt-fendauu-= paid [the execution] in lull to
the constable," is not snﬂicient alter reversal to order a restitu
tion without notice. Mrlhrsveey v. Rogers, 8 Hal. 179. Arrow
nnilh V. Vcmarsdalr, l Zub. -I71.

suﬁicient. Hrrlnson \'. EH1/rl’, 7 fful 1'37.
(d) itecorll should state the day and year when issued. .M'a1'

Hm. '60.

enlill! v. Om-cw-, 1-‘en. #370. " Issued lzth April. lsli, returnable
the '.l7th," is good. Hills v. Sloulnnbnr;/h, Pcn. W53. So, under
the names ofthe parties and style oi action, “ April 3d, I830."

Pm. *82. Slant v. Hopping, i Ifulsl. 125. Jlcirs v. Bus:om,28
V1". 383.
(Ill) An indorsement on the hack oi the transcript that an
appeal was demanded is not suﬂicient. B(’1l7iPl v. Km, 4 Hal.

kilt, 4 Hut. ‘L32.
(0) Llllllvlul v. Woml, Rm. *56.

Slukni v. C'omn'z, l South. N59.

Day v. Hull, 7 HaL ‘Z01. See Fully v. .S‘m|'Ul,7 Hall H0. The
command ofthe justicalo the constable to detain the defend

(l) Ajudgmentshuuul not beenterwd in ﬂgn res. Lhlr v. Prlly,
Walton v. Vmulmhojf. Pen. '73.

A'ru~¢-mill; v. Davis,

106.

tn) The name of the manly need not he entered.

Guiirk v.

ant must be entered. Dunham v. Solomon, I Hm‘. 50.
(2) The state oi‘ demand is no part ofthe record. Vnnciylce
v. Bmlrdo, '3 Gr. 224. But the docket and transcript ought to

Varutrxdalni, Jim. W46. C'(Hlf’ v. Rowiuml. '.' Hm: 76. It may be
amended h_\' the jtl>iit‘P. Allm v. Join. 3 Hal. 135. !.‘mnpv.

show tint it \\'|t~4 ilied.

Marlin, 7 Hal. I81.

En!/linh V. Bmtluun, 2 Hm". 350.

(11) When a justice renders judgment. in the absence ofthe
parties, it must nppenr by the record that the cause was regu

arly adjourned, or notice ziven to the parties.
Tru.rIrr.r, &c.

3 Ilrrl. 60.

i'u;uluren v.

:\3[gn'elon v. dcroguy, Pen. ‘G76.

Semple v.

Vuml01'rn, 5 Ilul. 286.

See Chance v. Chambers, Pen.

' -i.
(It) That they were sworn should he entered.

Pen. ‘G32. Bleward v. Cliumberlum, Pm. W42

Anony-mous,

Need not show

Backrr v. Van l"lr:/. l Hr. I95.

1t'ninu.'a

\'. Fairlmlm, Prn. “>906. SPF Sm:r1'nn\'. I.|mi,‘.’-S'm:lIl.*683. I
there tire several transcripts, the ﬁrst one will luv ink»-n nsirllﬁ.
W0mlnvn'1l v. l\'n'Ir1'.Pen.*2-'i\.'i. See Van Vlirl \'. Jrmra, S/NH. 340.
(0) The rounly rlerk C9l'ilﬂl'§ll‘l1ll§(!l'lpl-“ ol uorkels alter they
are so deposited.
ii’/>udr1:11‘v. li'~o<Iv*u1T. l Sm/ll: *-‘£75. Where
a ju.~'tit'e moved out of the state without rlepo.~"iiing his docket,
a plaintiﬂ was allowed to take a copy ui his docket and annex

affidavits thereto, as n return. Bull v. Van Houlen, 1SouU|. *3?

'

l889

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

courts of law and equity in this state, and have the same force and effect,
and be liable to the like legal objections, as though the said justice was still
in commission. (0.)
122. That the book in which such proceedings shall be entered by any
justice of the peace, shall, within one year after death of the said justice,
be deposited in the oﬂice of the clerk of the county wherein the said justice
resi-led and held his commission, to be there kept as a public record; and
if the executors or administrators of such deceased justice shall neglect or
refuse to deliver the said book, at the expiration of the said term oi‘ one
year, to the said clerk as aforesaid, he, she or they, so refusing or neglect
ing, shall forfeit and pay the sum of’ sixty dollars, to be recovered by
action of debt, with costs, in any court having cognizance of the same, and

paid when recovered, to the collector of the county,'for the use of the
county, who is hereby authorized and required to prosecute for the same.
123. That if any justice of the peace shall be hereafter removed from his
oﬂice by impeachment, the docket or dockets of the said justice shall be
forthwith deposited in the elerk‘s office of the county in which he resides
at the time of impeachment, thereto be kept as a public record.
124. That if any justice of the peace, either before or after the expira
tion of his term of office, shall he about to remove from the county in
which he was commissioned, it shall be his duty to deposit his docket or
dockets in the clerk’s oﬂice of said county, prior to his removal therefrom,
there to be kept as a public record.
125. That every justice of the peace and his legal representatives shall
and may at all times, after the said docket or dockets are deposited as
aforesaid, have free access to the same without payment of any fees to the
clerk therefore, to enable them to recover any costs which may be due the

Where docket de
posited after
death of Justice.
Ib., Q 57.

Penalty for
neglect.

l f impeached,

docket, where
deposited.
Ib., Q 59.

Same on removal
from county.

Ib., 3 60.

Justice lo have
access to docket.
Ib., Q Bi.

said justice thereon.

126. That if any justice of the peace shall neglect or refuse to deposit
his docket or dockets in the clerk’s office, at the time and in the manner
b_v this act directed, he shall forfeit and pay the sum of ﬁfty dollars, to be
recovered by action of debt, with costs, in any court of competent jurisdic

Penalty for not
so depositing

docket.
Ib., Q 62.

tion, and to he paid, when recovered, to the collector of the county, for

the use oi‘ the county; which suit shall be brought by the county collector,
for the use of the county.
127. That a transcript of the record of any case entered in any docket,
deposited in the clerk’s office as aforesaid, certiﬁed to be a true transcript
by said clerk, shall be received in evidence in any court of this state, and
be as good, effectual, and available in law, as ii’ the deposited docket were

Transcript from

docket in clerk's
oﬂiee, evidence.

then and there produced. (b)

128. That it shall not be lawful for the court of common pleas, or any
other court or municipal authority having power to grant license to keep
an inn and tavern in any of the counties, cities or towns corporate within
this state, to grant a license to any person to keep an inn and tavern, who
shall be at the same time a justice of the peace, or in virtue of his office
exercising the powers of a justice of the peace; and if any person shall be
appointed a justice of the peace, or an officer with the power of a justice
of the peace, in any of the counties, cities or towns corporate within this
state, during the time that he holds a license to keep an inn and tavern,
and accept of the said office, such license shall thenceforth be absolutely
void.
129. That no justice of the peace or constable shall appear and prose
cute or defend in any action before any justice of the peace, unless such
justice or constable shall be one of the parties on record in the cause; and
any justice or constable who shall offend against the prqyision of this
section. shall forfeit the sum of ﬁfty dollars, to be recovered by action of
debt with costs of suit, in any court having cognizance thereof, by and
for the use oi‘ any person who shall prosecute for the same; and such suit
shall be commenced within six months after the offense shall have been
(n) See 'l'Irh('1|o1' v. Hmrson, 2 (Ir. '26.
(0) it does not prevent a Justice, an-., who is the bona ﬂde

assignee of a claim, from proaeeufingit.
Span. 295.

ll9

Justice not to
keep tavern.

n. s. 229, Q R4.

Who not to
prosecute or
defend suiis.
Ib., Q 85.
Amended.

Chnovrr v. Solmnon,

1390

JUSTICES’ COURTS."
committed; pr0vided,'that nothing herein contained shall prevent a justice
from transacting thehgeneral concerns of a person who is absent and resi
dent without the_ state. (a) ._
5.

CONSTA BLE8—THEIR DUTIES.

Coliﬂmbleﬂ 1° be
:‘,,',‘::‘::"“1

130. That the constables of the several townships in any county shall
be the ministerial ofheers of the said courts, and it shall be the duty of said

n,_’,,,_'

constables to execute witiiin the county all precepts, summons, warrants,
writs, and other process, issuing out of the said court, and to them or any

of them directed and delivered, and make return thereof‘, and to perform
all matters, acts, and things appertaining to their offices aforesaid. (b)
6.

\’~’hMi>r<>'~'iH1<>m=
‘;'c‘l"_f’;'p‘:)',’,‘;:L",‘:_

PARTIES.

V131. That the provisions of sections nineteen, twenty, twenty-one,
twenty-three, twenty-ﬁve and twenty-six, of “An act to regulate the
practice of courts of law,” shall apply to the courts for the trial of small
causes, except where they conﬂict with the provisions oi‘ this act.
7.

CONSTRUCTION.

Becllonwvoflhe ' 132. That the provisions of section three hundred, of“ An act to regii
:P',‘:°m“',f,‘;*°"' late the practice of courts of law,” shall be extended to courts for the trial
pp

'

'1‘hi"<=W>Ri=P1Y
;‘;,‘Q:;:_‘,{°°"""
'

of small causes.

133. That the provisions of this act shall apply to the district courts of
the city of Newark, except where the provisions hereof are inconsistent
with the provisions of the act constituting said courts and of the supple
ments thereto.

XII. Supplements.
Supplement. P. L. 1875. p. 31.

Approved March 17, 1875.

-l"="°@ °"h°
134. Si-:0. 1. That it shall and may be lawful for any justice of the peace
§';°,,:c':':’::;:f“‘ whose term of oﬂice has expired or may hereafter expire, or who has
pll'Ei1l!1ﬂ](1e!erresigned or may hereafter resign, to proceed to the investigation and deter

mlneanrcauw

mination tojudgment of any cause then undetermined before him, and it

“““°‘°"“"“°°
hefmmmmld

shall
be the duty of every such justice to grant, when demanded, an
ie l from an such 'ud inent and also from the 'udrrment b’ him

grantnppeal.

apl

3'

_

y

J

g

1

_

J

n

.l

rendered in any cause theretofore brought before him, and also to make
return to all writs, orders or rules to him directed issuing out of any court

in this state, in the same manner and as fully as though his commission
had not expired or he had not resigned.
M*‘Y'5°"° “"1"

135. SEC. 2. That every such justice shall and may, when required so

:::,°:_;°u':::f;;:d to do, issue writs _of seire facias to‘ revive any judgment then remaining
j,,dg,,,e,,,,,_

unsatisﬁed upon his docket or dockets, and to issue all and any ﬁnal pro

cess of execution upon any such judgment so revived, or upon any other
judgment then remaining unsatisﬁed as a_fofesaid; and such writs and pro
cess shall be returnable before suclijiistice, and sha‘ll have the same force
and effect and be liable to the same legal objections as though the said
justice was still in commission; provided, that the (locket or dockets of such
justice then reinain lawfully in his possession.

Supplement.
P. L. 187-‘$.11. 57.

‘

Approved April 1.1875

136. Sac. 1. [Amended by Sec. 148, pas-1.]

(u) A mnrshni of a city cannot serve process.

Dimlium v.

Solnmrm, l Har. 50.

(b) A person who is not a constable or ministerial ofﬂcer of

the court cannot be deputed io serve a venire.
tin, 15 V1‘. 368.

Robins v. Mar

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

189 i

Supplement.
Approved Much 7, 1878.

P. L. 1876, p. 25.

137. SEC. 1. That in all cases of appeal from the judgment of any justice Wh@I1MH=w\*

of the peace founded on an aiiidavit or afﬁdavits, as provided for in the :",’,'°:°°§'t":epm_
thirty-seventh, thirty-eighth andthirty-nintii sections of the act to which ducllon ornew
this is a supplement, it shall not be necessary for either party to such evidenceon
appeal to give notice of the production of new evidence, but on the trial of '*PP°“
such appeal before the court of common pleas to which the same shall be
taken, it shall be lawful for either party to produce and offer such witnesses
and other evidence, as the said party shall desire, without previous notice
to the other party; provided, the same shall be lawful and competent in
other respects. [See Sec. 160, posh]

Amendatory act.
P. I». 1876,11 117.

Approved April 12, 1876.

138. SEC. 1. That section seventy-nine of the act entitled“ An act con
stituting courts for the trial of small causes,” which now reads as follows,
to wit [see P. L. 1876, p. ll7], be and the same is hereby amended so as
to read as follows, to wit:

[That from any judgment which may be obtained before any justice of T""" "P°"
the peace, except such as shall have been given by confession, either mjﬁgeéufilgeréz‘
party (a) may appeal to the court of common pleas of the county to be M, ,p,,,_.,,_
holden next after the rendering of such judgment;(b) which appeal the
said justice is hereby directed to grant, on the following and no other
terms, (c) that is to say, if the judgment appealed from be one entered
against the party demanding the appeal. or if there be in the action an
oﬁset against his demand, then he shall ﬁle with the justice a bond to the
other party, with at least one suiﬁcient security, being a freeholder in the
county, and in double the amount ofsnch judgment or set-otf conditioned
that the appellant shall appear and prosecute the said appeal in the said
court of common pleas, shall stand to and abide the judgment of the said
court, and pay such costs as shall he taxed against him if the judgment be
affirmed; (d) ii‘ the judgment appealed from be in furor of the party
demanding the appeal, and there be no offset in the action against his
demand, then no appeal bond shall be required, but the appeal shall be
taken by a notice in writing, signed by or in behalf of the appellant,
brieﬂy describing the judgment and stating that the party appeals there
from to the next court of common pleas; provided always. that no appeal Proviso.
shall be granted to remove any judgment entered against the party
demanding the appeal for any amount beyond the costs of suit where
such judgment shall have been rendered on the verdict oi" a jury, or on
the report of referees, unless the party shall at the time of taking the
(a) Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants. one of
them can appeal.

.5‘/trppurd v. ilrnlnn, 4 Hal. 8.

Phm-0 v.

Prrrkrr, 1 Z10. 332
Van Riukirk V. Holmkcn, &'c., R.-R. 00., Z
Vr. 367. See ll"ils0n v. .l!n0rr,2 Dulch. 458. A party against
whom a judgment is rendered in a Justice's court, in a matter
over which the _|i1.\llce has no jurisdiction, can raise the objec

llon to the jurisdiction of the court either upon a crrtiornri or
upon an appeal. Sletnlein v. ibtu,-rll, 24 Vr. 176. Ifjnrisdlctlon
is lost by irregular adjournmcnls, objection can be raised on
appeal. lb. Bare-lay v. Brubrton, 20 Vr. 629.
(0) The appeal must be taken to the next term. ﬁevens v.
Srurldn'. 2 South ‘-508. An appeal demanded on the ﬁrst day of

the term oi’ the pleas, next after rendering the judgment. is in
time. Dyrr v. Ludlum. l Hnr. 5'il. But not after the ﬁrst day.
Hluff v. Jfurlin, 3 Hal. ZOI. Unless the partylntendlngio
appeal has been prevented by the-absence oi‘ the justice, or other
good cause. Ixmy v. Lbt, 3 hr. 469. See S4.-Iiooley v. 1m'n.r,6
Hal. 159.
If a party. desiring to appeal from a judgment
rendered in a court for the trial of smallcauses, neglects to
demand an appeal on or before the ﬁrst day of the term of the
common pleas next aﬂer the renrliilon of the judgment, his
mzht ufnppeal expires. I//Ir v. Budd, 27 Vr. 457.

Tilrhertor v. Ilrwson, 2 G1‘. Z6. Nor ought the pleas lo grants.
rule on the justice to relu
an appeal without proof that an
appeal has been legally de
nried. Slull v. Ahlmll, 3 fir. 368.
(11) The tendering of abond, executed at-<--ndlnig In law, is a

demand of an appeal.

Thompson v. Wright. 2 01'. 38.

Which

the Justice has no discretion to reﬁise. Rodznlnmgh v. Rosc
bury, 4 Zab. 49L Xi’ the condlllon of lhe bond rt-cites so much

ofthejudgment
v. Hulchin-son, 8
not be stated.
executed by the

as identiﬁes ll, it will be suﬂlclenl. Glenlworllt
Hal 90. The amount or the judgment need
u1-‘mm v Sciplu. 6 Hat. 2'18. It need not be
arne-. Kennedy v. Cbualz. 2 Gr. 83. It may be

executed by a m nor. against wlmm a judgment has been ren
dered, and l1f|‘9Ql)Cllll9|‘. Andrmrs v. Slewnrl, ii Hut. I60. The

county in which the obligor resides and the courl to which the
appeal is made ought lo be designated.

01:239.

Mrresole v. Merrxrnle, l

Au inlerllneatlon or alteration vilialee ll.

Robe:-1.1. B Hnt. 181.

Brit v. Smith, I G1". BIZ.

Shlnn v.

Theme v. Kcrler,

3 Hm. 251. The appeiiantwas allowed to prove lhsl. interline»
lions, apparent on the face of the bond, were made before its
execution. Roclm/rllowv. Rca,7Hal. I80. Questioned in Thorpe

v. l\'v;rler, 3 Hm". 25l.

If a party obtains the dismissal of an

(c) The _iu~llce must decide, (i) Whether it is a esse in which

appeal on ihe ground oi‘ the lnsuﬂiclenry oi‘ the bond, he cannot
afterwards prosecute such bond. Van Rlper v. Scoll. 6 Hal. BIB.

an appeal lies. ('2) Whether the application is marlein due
time. (3) \\’helher the bond is in due and legal iorin. (4)
Whether the surety is a freeholder in the coumy and otherwise
suﬁieient. (5) \Vhelhei' the bond has been legally executed.

the court. (1'rr(mry v. Obi-inn. i '71-. ll. Snllicient state of
demand against a surely. The! v. Tice, 2 Gr. 444.

Nor where lhe appeal is dismissed for want oi‘ Jurisdiction in

1892

JUSTICES’ COURTS.
satne, file with the justice an aﬁidavit made by the party, or in his absence
by his agent, stating that the said appeal is not intended for the purpose
of delay, and that the afliant verily believes that the appellant hath a just

and legal ground of appeal npon the merits of the case; which aliidavit
shall be sent up to the court to which the appeal is taken, witii the other
papers in the cause.] (a)
Act to apply
where appeals
might now be
taken.

139. SEC. 2. That this act shall take etiect immediately, and shall apply
to all actions in which appeals might now be taken according to law.
Supplement.

P. L. I877, p. 140.
Holder of note
or bill of ex
change may in
clude all parties
in one action.

Copy of bill or
note to be an
nexed to the state
of demand.

Approved March 9, 1877.

140. SEO. 1. That the holder of any hill of exchange or promissory note,
instead of bringing separate actions against the. parties separately liable
thereon, may include all or any of them in one action, and proceed to
judgment and execution in the satne manner as though all the defendants
were joint contractors, subject, however, to the qualifications liereinafter
provided. (b)
141. S1-:0. 2. That in every such action the plaintifff shall annex to the state
of demand a notice containing a copy of the hill or note with the indorse
ments, and stating that the action is brought to recover the amount dtie there
on ; but he shall not recover judgment against any several drawer, maker, in
dorser or acceptor not served with process, and any joint drawer, maker,
indorser or acceptor may prove in abatement the non-joinder of any other
joint drawer, maker, indorser or acceptor; but judgment inay be obtained
against joint contractors, some only of whom have been served with pro
cess, and such judgment shall have the same effect against the joint con

tractors as heretofore.
Judgment may
be rendered
against one or
more of the de
lendants.

Costs to be al
lowed in case of
set-off.

Verdict shall
certify amount
of set-offallowed.

Rights, &C.,
of the several
parties, as be
tween each
other, shall re
main as hereto
fore.

142. Sac. 3. That in any such action judgment may be rendered for the
plaintifff against some one or more of the defendants, and also in favor of
some one or more oftlie defendants against the plaintiffi', according as the
rights and liabilities of the respective parties shall appear, eitlie.r tipon
confession, default or on trial; and any person sued shall be entitled to set
off his demands against the plaintifff in the same maiiuer as though such
defendant had been sued in the form heretofore used; and when judgment
shall be rendered in favor of any defendant, he shall recover his costs
against the plaintifff in the same manner as though judgment had been
rendered for all the defendants.

143. Si-:0. 4. That if, tipon the trial of any such action, the whole
amount of the set-oil’ allowed shall equal or exceed the amount allowed
to the plaintifff, then in the ﬁrst case the verdict shall be in favor of the
defendants generally, and in the last case for the excess; and in all cases
the verdict shall certify the amount allowed to each defendant as a set-oil‘.

14:4. SEC. 5. That the rights anti respoiisibilities of the several parties to
any such bill or note, as between each other, shall remain as heretofore,
saving only the rights of the plaintifff, so far as they may have been deter
mined by ‘the judgment; and any one or more oi the defendants shall be
I

(0) A plaintifff appealing from a judtzment in his favor was

required to niake the aliidavlt.

Miller v. Jim-!i'ri,3 1{ttl.20i.

The itllidavit should not be iiidorseil on the bond. 1"rwts v.
Jones. 3 Gr. ‘.20, l Hm‘. 358. The tillitiavlt ls tzooil, hilt ll. vitiates
the bond. lhlilaiiis v. I3onm:ll,i Har. 23%. it ought to appear
on the transcript that the atli-lavit was tilt-ti at the tnoeof
ﬁling the bond. .-lll':Il._l/IRIJIIJ, l 1{ttl. ‘I30. lint ll'll|'lii|'.\‘t'(i on the

bond, and sworn to oerore the NllTl9_lli\llt‘i' on Ihe day the bond
was ﬁled, it is siitii-'it-tit proot'ii.~i to the time. (.lo-mun v .s'~ur'/r.
201'. 117. it will be pit-stiiiieil that ll\\'tL-"I filed on iii» tliiy
nieiiiioned in the traiiscript on whit-h theiippeal was llPlllil.lI‘lt3tl.
Millrr v. il’Iu'lc,3 fh-.466. It mii.~'.t- ho mail on the same tlay
that the him i is fileil. (lilroiim \'. lVornr, -I Hill. '.2‘Ji). l’ttrlt'w \'.
Hunt,7 Iliil. R2. .-\ inl.~ii.il<-- iii the date. may be .\‘\ll1)\\'ll an-l
corrected. l~’n-its v. Jom-.¢, 3 Hr. ‘.2-‘l. Lucy v. (ii-ix, 3 Hr. -liiil. It
should appear on its face to be iii the saine cause, alihou'.:h it I!-I
not Ilf‘(‘t'.~\*4;lI‘_\' to entitle it. Diuifuun v. lt’itppl.v_t/I-ti,l Ilill‘. T-3.
Bum-v.slrwto-/,1; lfttr. 123. A substuiitial coinpllafive with
the \\ort_l~i of the at-t is suliicleiit. -S‘/runabout C0. v Httldivin, 2
Hr. ~l<l0. Ililwiim lids. Gtirrttrd, l II-1:‘. i'.'l. Tomlin V. .\Iot'ri.1,

1 IIIIV. l79. ]['lI!ll'l/HR V. I’:-(track, 3 Hm’. 43-5. Yitrd V. Boihne,
3 Hm‘. -lilll. overruling I-,'n_ule V. Blxiir, 6 Iitil. 339. b'cIu"n1'/c
v. A_i/res, 2 Hr. Jill. It need not be signed by the nlliaut. Hila
mtin atls. t-ltirritrd,| I{ar ill. (‘on(ra. where there are two
appellants and the altidavlt is made by one. Gad<h'.~i v. Dll!'ﬂ8/by,

l Gr. 324. It is not req nislte that all should join. Vim (Xnnprn
vi Itihhlr, 2 Har. 433. it may be made by an officer of a cor
poration. -\‘t1ant.bou! (it). v. Btttdwin, ‘.2 Gr. 440. it must be
taken by i.lN']il‘4llCe who tried the caiise. Minot v. Jllrrry, 2 G1‘.
is-1. On su.ii~ii'ar-iory proof of l0.~i~i, a new allitiavit may be sub
stituted.
Vim (imipm v. Iiihhlv. ‘.2 llio-. -lfifl. It not uppeiiriiig
that the iillidiivit was preseiitetl to the _lll.\ill't¢ \vliliiii the time
limited by law for (l9II1l\il(lllll.{ an appeal. the t-oniinon pleas
properly lil'\'|lll\-Pll the Ll|I|)I‘¢ll: it Tlltllltltllllll-'4‘ lo reinstate
reiitsed.
ll-‘it:-oz: v. Sui;/Ii, l7 l'r. Ill;
An appeal will lie in an
ﬁction ofdent, qui (tun, to n-covt-i‘ ll pi-ii.tlt_\' tinder the -\'1lﬂl(‘ act,
although the _|nsiice‘.~i court has not jut i-ilit-tioti over tin-so
atfiiiiiii.
ll'i'l£iit/ruini V. .’|It'tliUe.-wr (innmmi ]'l¢’u.¢, I3 i'r. 386.
An action for it |Nfllllll_\' for it uoliuioii oi i\IlltllIlt‘l|H1lUl‘llllllllI(‘t',
must he brought in the c--nrt oihsiiiail i~aii~t-.-, \\ here the statute
provides that the pt-iialiy shall be I'Q"\‘lI\'PlP1l in iui iictioii of
debt helore aju-itii:t- oi‘ the peace, iilltl the jniignieni in such ease
is reviewabie only on app»-al to ihi-eotiiinoh pleas. Sniitli v.
Ulintmi, 24 Vr. 329. See Wliirr V. .'\'¢;|!intr (.'oI_t/, ‘.37 l'r. ‘.".’.'..!.
ti») A jnstice's docket showed an at-tlon ol debt coinineiiced
atztiiiist two defendaiits, legal service npon one of them only,
and every sub~ieqiient step in the cause taken as agaiiist a single
defendant. Jfclil, that the jiitlignii-nt so entered was rendered
only against that defendant who was legally served with sum
mons. Mutancy v. Hughes, 2i Vr.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

1893

entitled to the testimony of any codefendant as a witness in all cases
where he or they would be entitled to his testimony had the suit been
brought. in the form heretofore used; and the plaintifff shall be entitled to
the testimony of any defendant as a witness in all cases where he would
be entitled to his testimony against the other parties to the bill or note,
had the suit been brought in the form heretofore used.
145. SEO. 6. That whenever an execution against goods and chattels shall
issue in any such action upon a bill or note, as is hereinbefore provided, it
shall be the duty of the constable, after making a levy upon the property
liable to the execution, to make the money out of the property of the per
son or persons principally liable, as between themselves, for its payment, if
it can be done before selling the property of the person or persons second
arily liable; and for the information of such officer it shall be the duty of
the justice to indorse on the execution the order in which the defendants,

Constable after
levy to make the
money out of the
property of the
person or per
sons principally

liable.

according to the terms of the bill or note, are liable, as between themselves,

for its payment, and if the judgment be paid by a defendant or defendants
secondarily liable, as between themselves, it shall not be considered satisﬁed

as against the defendant or defendants liable over on the bill or note to the
defendant making such payment, but he shall have (on application to the
said justice, giving two days’ notice thereof to the other parties to the
judgment, and subject to such regulations as may be imposed) the full
beneﬁt and control of such judgment for the purpose of compelling repay
ment from the defendant or defendants liable to him for such repayment,
and on this application the said justice may order an issue to try the ques
tion in controversy.
Supplement.
Approved March 14, 1879.

146. SEC. 1. That when any judgment is obtained in any court for the
trial of small causes in this state, and an execution shall issue thereon, and
be returned by the constable to whom it has been delivered to be executed,
indorsed to the effect that he could not ﬁnd personal property ofthe party
against whom the execution was issued, on which to levy, or that he had
levied and sold goods and chattels, and had made thereof part of said judg
ment, and that the same was not fully satisﬁed and stating the balance still
unsatisﬁed, and if the person against whom such execution shall have been

P. L. 1379, p. 202.
When an alias
or pluries execu
tion may Imus.

issued and returned as aforesaid, shall reside in or he possessed of goods

and chattels in any other county of this state than that in which such exe
cution shall have been issued and returned as aforesaid, then an alias or

pluries execution may issue, as the case may be, out of said court, directed
to any constable in the county where said person against whom such exe
cution may issue shall at that time reside or be found, or be possessed of
goods and chattels, and it shall be the duty of the constable to whom such
execution shall be given to-carry it to some justice of the peace of the
county wherein said person or. goods and chattels may be found, and the
justice to whom the same shall be presented, on proof being made to him
of the handwriting of the justice of the peace who issued such execution,
shall indorse his name thereon, with an authority to make levy and sale of
the goods and chattels of said person in the same manner as in other cases
on executions issuing out of the court for the trial of small causes, which
execution shall be returned to the justice issuing the same, in the same

Indorsement in
foreign county.

manner as in other cases. (a)

147. SEC. 2. 'l‘hat all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro

Repealer.

visions of this act be and the same are hereby repealed, and this act shall
take eifect immediately.
Supplement.
Approved February 5,1880.

148. S1-:0. -1. That section one hundred and thirty-ﬁve of the act to
which this is a further supplement, which reads as follows, to wit [see
R-cv., p. 563, and Sec. 136, ante], be amended to read as follows:;,;___._.:_-Q
(ca) This act applies only to judgments obtained after its passage.

McGovern v. Qmnell, 14 Vr. 107.

P. L. 1880, p. PL

I894
Fees of constable
in aervlnlz crimi
nal warrants.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.
[That the constables of the several counties of this state shall be entitled
to receive from the collector of said county, their lawful fees for serving
any criminal warrant, together with any proper and reasonable expenses
by them incurred in conveying any olfender to the county jail for commit

ment to tiie custody of tiie sheriﬂ, whether such offender shall be indicted
Proviso.

or not, for the offense for which such oﬂ‘ender may have been committed provided, that the bill of expenses so incurred shall be itemized and shall

be certiﬁed by the prosecutor of the pleas of said county to be proper and
reasoiiabie.]

[See p. 1454, Sec. 24, ante, and Sec. 5, ante.]

Supplement.
P. L. 1880, p. 3243.
Bepealer.

Approved March 12, 1880.

149. Sac. 1. That section eighty-seven of said act, which is in the foi
lowiug words, to wit [see P. L. 1880, p. 326], be and the same is hereby
repeal ed.
15D. SEO. 2. 'l‘_hat _sec_-tion eighty-e_ight of the act to which this is a sup

plement, and which is in the foliowiiig words, to wit [see P. L. 1880, p.
326], he and the same is hereby amended to read as follows:
Appeal from
Judgment not

exceeding Q30 to be
tried by court
u uless ju ry be

demanded.

[’l‘iiat every appeal from the judgineut of any justice of the peace founded
on the verdict of a jury, where the judgment appealed from shall not

exceed, exclusive of costs, the suiu of thirty dollars, shall be heard and
determined by the court to whom such appeal is or shall he made; and all
appeals from the judgment of any justice of the peace founded on the ver
dict of a jury, where the judgment appealed from shall exceed, exclusive
of costs, the sum of thirty dollars, shall be heard and determined by the
court to whom such appeal is or shall be made, unless either ofthe parties

to the said appeal, where thejudgment appealed from shall exceed, exclu
sive of costs, the sum of thirty dollars, shall demand a trial byjury, in
which case said appeal shall be tried by jury, and the sheriff shall return a
jury either immediately or at such future time as the said court shall direct,

and that by order of the court and without writ.] (a)

[See Sec. l6l, p0st._|

Supplement.
P. L. I881, p. 259.

New trial may he

Approved March 25, 1881.

151. SEO. 1. That section ninety of an act entitled “ An act constituting
courts for the trial of small causes” [Revision], approved March twenty
seveiith, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four [see Reva, p. 555,
§ 90, and See. 91, ante], be and the same is hereby amended so as to read
as follows :
[That after the trial of an appeal in the court of common pleas a new

¢"“"°d°" “PP*~’“'- trial may be granted by the said court.] (b)

Supplement.
P. L. 1882, p. 137.
Appeals in city

having dlsirlct
court may be

made to such
court only.

Appeals, how
laken.

Approved March l7, lS8'l.

152. Sac. 1 . That from any judgment which may be obtained before
any justice of the peace or any police justice in any city where a district
court or district courts are established, in any hastardy or desertion actions,
and from any judgment in all proceedings of a civil nature in which such
justice of the peace has or may hereafter have jurisdiction, either party
may appeal only to the district court of said city, which appeal shall be
taken by a notice in writing, signed by or in behalf of the appellant, brieﬂy
describing the judgment and stating the name of the district court to which
the appeal is taken, which appeal must be taken within ten days after the
rendering of said judgment by said justice, and the proceedings on appeal

(a) There is no constitutional right to trial byjury on appeal

from lhe courts for the trial oflsmall causes in cases where no
jury was demanded below. Wamer v. Atkinson, it V1‘. 511.
In an action oi’ trespass, the verdict ofajury was for the de
fendant. On appeal to the common pleas by the plaintifff, the
-defendant demanded ajury, which was refused, under this act,

‘because the judgment appealed from did not exceed, exclusive
of cosls, the sum of}-‘$0. Held, that the defendant could not be

denied his right to sjury trial. lifdlinzy v. (‘arm-, 19 V1-. ll3
See Raphael v. Lane, 27 Vr. 108.
(b) Where a new trial has been granted the supreme court
will not review such discretionary Order on r-vrtim-nri, where it

does not appear that the court below has exceeded its Jurisdic
tion, or assumed a. power not warranted bylaw.
Hart, 15 Vr. 366.

Albert v.

fl895

JUSTICES’ COURTS.
shall be conducted in the district court in the same manner as appeals are
now heard and determined by the inferior courts of common pleas oi‘ the

Procedure on ap
peal.

several counties of this state and maybe brought on to hearing at any
time after ﬁling in district court upon ten days’ notice by either party to
the other. (a-)

153. Sac. 2. That in any city having two district courts, any appeal
may be taken to either of said courts, and said appeal shall stay all pro
ceedings until the same is determined by the district court to which the
appeal is taken; that such order, determination or decision oi‘ any district
court of this state, upon any point of law or upon the admission or rejec
tion of evidence, may be removed into the supreme court by writ of eer
tiorari; said writ shall remove said order or determination and a case agreed
upon by the parties or their attorneys, and if they cannot agree. the judge,
on being applied to by them or their attorneys, shall settle the case and
sign it, and such case shall be agreed upon or settled within ﬁfteen days
after such determination or direction ; provided, that the party applying for
a writ of certiorari shall comply with section ninety-seven of an act entitled
“An act constituting courts for the trial of small causes” [Revision], ap
proved March twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and seventy-four.
154. SEO. 3. That all acts or parts oi‘ acts inconsistent herewith, whether
general or special, be and the same are hereby repealed.

Appeals ln city
having two dis
trict courts.

Certlornrl.

Repealer.

Supplement.
Approved February ‘L5. 1885.

155. SEC. 1. That in any suit begun by summons in a court for the trial
of small causes, if the plaintiii‘ shall deliver to the justice a copy of his
account or state of demand against the defendant at the time of the issuing
of the summons, and i'urnish as many copies of said account or state oi‘
demand as there are defendants to be served, then the same

shall

Account or state
oi‘ demand may
be served with
summons.

be

attached to the summons and one of said copies shall be attached to and
served with each copy of said summons, and the return of the constable
upon the summons shall be proof of the service of such account or state oi‘
demand upon the defendant; and in every such case the defendant shall
not be entitled to an adjournment of the trial on the return day, except
upon reasonable cause being shown by aﬂ‘ldavit, or by oath or affirmation ;
the constable making such service shall be entitled to the same ices as for
serving a summons alone.
Supplement.

P. L. 1885, p. 49.

Adjou rnmen t.

Approved March 28, 1886.

P. L. 1686,11. 120.

156. S1-:0. l. That the twenty-second section of the act of which this is
amendatory be amended to read as follows:
[That all suits brou,<_>;ht or commenced hereafter before any justice oi‘ the
peace in this state, which, under the present practice, would be either
actions of debt, covenant, assumpsit or trespass on the ease, for injuries
arising from breaches of contract or the non-performance of duties arising

What actions to
be styled actions
upou contract.

from contract, shall be in the name and style oi’ actions upon contract, and

counts for the said causes of action may be joined in the same suit, any law,
usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.]
157. S1-:0. 2. That all actions of trespass, trover and of trespass on the
case, cognizable before any court for the trial of small causes, shall here
after be in the name and style of’ actions of tort, and counts for said causes
of action may be joined in the same suit.
((1') This act is unconstitutional with respect to appeals in
bastard)‘ and rlesertlon cases. over which justices of the peace

have no jurisdiction by force of the act creating courts for the
trial oi‘ small causes, for the reason that to that extent the
object of the act is not expressed in its title; but in other

Actions styled

actions of tort.

respects the act is constitutional. Etiernhnm v. Hutu, l6 Vr. 53.
The remedy to review ajudgment in the court of small causes,
except where there ls a district court, is by nppe ml lo the com
mon pleas. Smith v. Cllnlcm, 2-l I'r. 331. Jackson v. Kelly, 6 N.

J. L. J. 55.

1896

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

Supplement.
P. L. 1891, I1. 92.
County clerk to
make transcript

of record in
docket and to
docket judgment

Approved March 9, 1891.

158. SEC. 1. That it shall and may be lawful for the clerk of any county
to make a transcript of the record of any case entered in any docket
deposited in the clcrk’s office oi’ such county as required in sections one
hundred and twenty-one, one hundred and twenty-two, one hundred and
twenty-three, one hundred and twenty-four, of the act to which this is a.
supplement, and to docket any judgment obtained in any court for the
trial of small causes, of which the record appears in any docket so deposited,
for an amount not less than ten dollars, including costs, if execution shall

And to issue
execution.

Fees.

appear by said record to have been issued thereon and returned unsatisﬁed;
and if it shall appear that no execution has been issued upon suchjudg
ment, or, if issued, has not been returned, the said clerk of the county be
and he is hereby authorized, upon the request of the person or persons
obtaining such judgment, his or their executors, administrators, assignee
or assignees oi’ such judgment, to issue execution thereon under the seal of
the clerk of said county against goods, chattels and personal estate, and
upon such writ being returned unsatisﬁed to proceed, upon the request of
the person or persons obtaining such judgment, his or their executors,
administrators, assignee or assignees of such judgment, to make a trans
cript from the said docket so deposited, and to proceed in manner and
form as provided in the seventy-second section of the act to which this is a
supplement, as though the justice of the peace by whom such judgment
was granted had himself made such transcript, to docket the same in
accordance with the provisions of said seventy-second section, and such
judgment from the time of said docketing shall operate in all respects as
though it had_ been docketed under and by force of said section; and for
his services hereunder the clerk of the county performing the said functions
shall receive the same fees, and no more, as the justice of the peace would
have been entitled to for the same had his docket not been so deposited in
the oﬂice oi‘ the clerk of the county. [See Sec. 169, post]

Amendatory act.
P. L. 1892, p. 182,

F-ults by and
against corpora

tlons and attor
neys.

Approved March 23, 1892

159. SEC. 1. That the seventh section of an act entitled “Au act con
stituting courts for the trial of small causes ” [Revision], approved March
twenty-seventh, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-i'our, be and the
same is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
[That any body politic or corporate of this state, or oi‘ any other state,
may sue and be sued in any court for the trial of small causes, in any
action or proceeding over which said court has jurisdiction ; and all attor
neys-at-law shall and may be sued in said court in like manner, or form of
action, as other citizens of this state are liable to be sued in said court.] (a)

Supplement.
1‘. L I894, p. 440.

Approved May 17, 1594.

duced or evidence
not olfered or
admitted in the

160. Sac. 1. That hereafter upon the trial oi‘ any appeal from any judg
ment which has heretofore been or shall hereafter be obtained before any
justice of the peace, ii‘ either party shall desire to produce upon the trial
thereof any witness or witnesses not produced or sworn in the court below,

court below, may

or any documentary evidence not oﬁ'cred or admitted in the court below,

In trial of uppenls
wimo.-uses not pro

be introduced
wlrhont notice.

the said party shall be at liberty to do so and the same shall be admitted
by the court if otherwise legal and competent, without notice to the
opposite party or his attorney.

(rt) A bank may be sued before a justice. swim Bank v. Vrm
Ilurn, 1 Soulh. r382. A turnpike company may sue for tolls.
Ayn-.9 v. Turnpike 01., 4 Hal. 33. A mu nlclpal corporation mn
not he so sued. Irihnbitanla of Prlncnmn v. Mmm1,5 Dun-h..
299. Trustees of aschool,1n lbeir corporate capacity, are not

llable to be sued in s Justice's court.

School D-uateu v. Stoc/rm",

13 Vr. H5, following Tbu-nserui v. Timlees, I2 Vr. 812. The only
effect of this supplement of 1892 was 10 conler on such courts
jurisdiction over corporations of other states. The mode of
se rvlng process on corporations provided by Sec. I8, ante’, Wu
not altered. Penna. R. R. Lb. v. Krcilzmari, ‘Z8 V-r. 60.

JUSTICES’ COURTS.

1897

Supplement.
Approved March 22, 1895.

161. SEO. 1. 'I‘hat in all cases oi‘ appeal from the judgment oi’ any justice
of the peace, it shall and may be lawful for either party to the appeal,
upon giving notice in writing to the clerk of the court oi’ common pleas of
the county, on or before the ﬁrst day of the term to which the appeal shall
have been sent up, if the trial be had at that term, or if not, then ou or
before the ﬁrst day of the term at which such appeal shall be tried, to
demand a trial of said appeal by jury, and upon receiving such notice said
clerk shall ﬁle the same in his oﬂice, and the said appeal shall be tried by
a jury, and the sheriti‘ shall return a jury either immediately or at such
future time as the said court shall direct, and that by order of the court

P. 1.. 1895, p. 604.
Either parry may

demand trial of
appeal by Jury
upon nolice l0

clerk.

and without writ.

162. SEO. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro
visions of this act are hereby repealed, and that this act shall take eriect
immediately.

ltepealer

'

XIII. Miscellaneous acts.
An act respecting appeals from justices’ courts.
Approved April 21, 1876.

P. L. I876, p. 268.

163. SEC. 1. [A mended by Sec. l64, post]

Supplement.
Approved February 5, 1880.

P. L. i880, p. 14.

164. SEO. l. That section one of the act to which this is a supplement,
which section reads as follows [sec P. L. 1876, p. 268], be and the same is
hereby amended so as to read as follows:

[That all appeals from justices’ courts to the court of common pleas oi‘
any county in this state shall be put on the list for trial at the ﬁrst term to
which the same shall be appealed ; provided, however, that if said appeal is
taken within the ﬁve days prior to the beginning of such term, and if the
papers are not ﬁled with the clerk of said court three days prior to the be
ginning of such term, then, and in that case, said appeal to be put on the
list for trial at the next term therea1‘tcr.] (0.)

165. SEO. ‘.2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro

When appeals
from jusL1ce’s

court to be put
on list.
Proviso.

Repeaier.

visions of this act be and the same are hereby repealed.

An act to increase the jurisdiction of justices of the peace.
Approved March 12, 1879.

166. SEC. i. That every suit of a civil nature at law where the debt,
balance or other matter in dispute does not exceed, exclusive of costs, the

sum or value of two hundred dollars, shall be and hereby is made cogni
zahie in any court for the trial of small causes of this state where the same
may be heard and determined according to law; provided aln-a_1/.-, that this
act shall not extend to any action of replevin, slander, trespass for assault
and battery or imprisonment, nor to any action wherein the title to any

P. L. 1879, p.115.
May have juris
diction in Olsen
of sums not ex
ceeding $200.
Proviso.

lands, tenements, hereditaments or other real estate shall or may in any

wisc come in question, nor to any cause of action over which any district
court of this state now has or hereafter may have exclusivejurisdiction;
and provided further, that it shall be at the option of the plaintiii in any
suit at law to bring his action in the circuit court; and provided further,
that no justice of the peace in any city where a district court now exists,
(41) The common pleas may reinstate an appeal dismissed

for apparently good cause, on discoverin

mistake ofiaw or

fact, or where the appellant has a. merltor ous case.

Lush v.

Proviso.
Proviso.

rum, 15 Vr. 8'78. This act clearly dispenses with the necessity
for the notice required by the eighty-third section of the jus
tice's court act. Johmon v. 0’Ne|'l, l7 Vr. 510.

1898

Repeater.

JUSTICES’ COURTS
shall exercise jurisdiction over any cause cognizable in such district
court. (a) [See Sec. 1, ante.]
167. SEO. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the pro
visions of this act he and the same are hereby repealed, except such acts
or parts of acts as give to certain district courts jurisdiction over suits men
tioned in the ﬁrst section of this act, in the cities wherein such district

courts now exist or may hereby be established.
Justices not to
have jurisdiction

in cases of per
sons for whom
he is agent, lite.

Proviso.

168. SEC. 3. That it shall not be lawful for any justice of the peace to
issue any summons, writ of attachment or other process for or on behalf of
any person i'or whom he is agent or attorney in fact, nor to take any fee or
reward for any such service, or for receiving and paying over any monies
paid to him by any defendant in any suit instituted in his court, or for
writing out or preparing, or assisting in preparing or writing out any state
of demand, bill of particulars, set-0ﬂ' or counterclaim or aiiidavit, plea of
title or other paper necessary or proper to be made use of in the progress
of any suit or proceeding in his court; provided, that any justice may
charge and receive not more than twenty-ﬁve cents for writing out or prepar
ing any state of demand on a book account, or drawing up an aﬂidavit ; any
justice of the peace violating the provisions of this section shall be liable to
a penalty of twenty-ﬁve dollars, to be sued for and recovered in any court
of competent jurisdiction by any person who may sue for the same. (b)

An act concerning the docketing of judgments recovered in the courts

for the trial of small causes in the state of New Jersey.
Approved April 4, 1892.

P. L. 1892. II. 386.

Dockevtlng of

169. SEC. 1. That ﬁnal judgments of courts for the trial of small causes
ﬂnsl judgments.

Statement, what
to contain.

in any county in this state, if not less than ten dollars, including costs,
remain due on such judgments, may be doc-keted in the court of common
pleas in that county, and that in docketing any judgments from the courts
for the trial of small causes in any county in this state, it shall only be
necessary to ﬁle with the clerk of the court of common pleas a statement
signed by the justice of the peace before whom the saidjudgmeut was re
covered in the court for the trial of small causes, under his hand and seal,
which statement shall only be required to contain the names of the justice
before whom such judgment was obtained, and the names of the parties,
the amount and date of judgment, and the date of issue and return of the

execution, if any, and it shall not be necessary before obtaining such state
ment for docketing from the justice of the peace, that execution on the

Proviso.

judgment shall issue out of and be returned unsatisﬁed unto the court
where judgment was rendered, and that said statement may be made and
taken at any time alter judgment in the court i'or the trial of small causes,
and be of the same force and effect as if execution had been issued and
returned as now required by law; provided, however, that an aﬂldavit of
the plaintifff", or his attorney, shall be ﬁled with the clerk of the court of
common pleas with said statement setting forth that the said judgment
about to be docketed is hona. ﬁde, and is still due and unpaid, in whole or

in part; and that the fee of the clerk of the court of common pleas for ﬁling
said statement and doeketing said judgment will be one dollar, and the fee
of the justice of the peace tor issuing said statement shall be ﬁfty cents, and
that any judgment docketed as aforesaid shall operate as a judgment in :1.
suit originally commenced in said court of common pleas to the same extent
as now provided by law. [See Sec. 158, (lIll(’.]
(n) The effect of the third proviso ofthls section is merelyto
prevent the justices mentioned in the pmviso from acquiring
the increase oijurlsdiction which the enactment confers upon
justices generally. Slant v. McLh1nb,l3 Vr.484. This section
does not increase jurisdiction in attachment cases. wrmm v.
Mm"an, l~l 1'12 49 The section is constitutional. Uotweu v.
Wagoner v. Walls, lb Vr. l26. The
Cllambertln, 1-I Vr. 387.

small cause court has jurisdiction where the damage-nlald in

an action of tort do not exceed @200, although the trespass or
injury may he to property of areater value. De Onmp v. Miller-,
I5 Vr. 6l7.

This act givesjurisdiotion upon a bond whereon ls

due more than @100, but less than Q'w0,a.lthou|zh the penalty
named therein exceeds 5:00. Anderson v. Rose, 22 Vr. 47i.
(b) Qlll1‘_l/—-I8 this section unconstitutional on the grou nd that

its object is I10! expressed in the title ofthemct? (blweu v.
Chambcrlin, 14 Vr. 388.

LlMI'[‘A'1‘ION OF AOTlONS._

1971

An act in relation to the lien of dyers upon goods in their
possession.
Approved March 2a, 1888.

P. n lass. 11- '11-'2

66. Sec. 1. 'l'hat all persons or corporations engaged in the business of IW@"¢"\"'°11
dyeing any cotton, woolen or silk yarns or goods shall be entitled to a lien ;‘_’)£’;‘|:'1‘;';1r
upon the property of others which may ha\'e come into their possession for p.,s._,.,S,,|.,,,_
the purpose of being dyed, for the amount oi‘ any account that may be
due them from the owners of such yarns or goods by reason of work and

labor performed and materials i'urnishcd_ in and about the dyeing of the
same or other goods oi’ such owner or owners.
67. S1-:0. 2. That such lien shall not be waived, merged or impaired by Lien notwaived
the recovery oi‘ any judgment for the monies due for such work, labor or “Y "‘~‘°""°'Y °‘
.

.

.

judgment.

materials, and such hen may be eniorced by levy and sale under execu
tion upon such judgment.
An act in relation to the lien of manufacturers, spinners and
throwsters of cotton, woolen and silk goods.
Approved May 9, 1889.

P. L. I889, p. 41$

_ 68. SEC. l. That all persons or corporations engaged in the business of I-ienvrlwlwn.
manufacturing, spinning or throwing cotton, wool or silk into yarn or wo':L's°“"“‘
other goods, shall be entitled to a lien upon the goods and property of 8 '
others that may come into their possession for the purpose of being so
manufactured, spun or thrown into yarn or other goods, for the amount of
any account that may be due them irom the owners of such cotton, wool

or silk, by reason of any work and labor performed and materials fur
nished in or about the manufacturing, spinning or throwing of the same
or other goods oi‘ such owner or owners.
69. SEC. 2. Thai; such lien shall not be waived or impaired by the Lie" "°1i111PﬂlP@<!
recovery oi‘ any judgment for the monies so due, and for the work and ;'l:'d;‘;‘::l‘;:'Y°'
labor performed and materials furnished; and such lien may be cnforced
'
by levy and sale under execution upon such judgment.
An act in relation to the lien of ﬁnishers of silk and other goods of
which silk is a. component part.
Approved June 13,1890.

i’- |~ I390. P- 469

70. S!-:0. l. That all persons or corporations engaged in the business of Lleliofpersﬂns
ﬁnishing silk or other goods oi’ which silk isa component part, shall be ""°“°"P°"“‘°"'*
entitled to a lien upon the goods and property oi‘ others that may come “’v':1'(lkg°”d“f°'
into their possession for the purpose of being linished and prepared for
'
sale. for the amount oi‘ any account that may be due them from the owner

of such goods. by reason oi‘ any work and labor performed and materials
furnisiied in the ﬁnishing and preparing i'or sale of the same or other goods
ofsuch owner.
_
71. SEC. 2. That such lien shall not be waived or impaired by the I.1@nn<>Hrnnalr»d
recovery of any judgment for the monies so due, and for the work and "Yd"*°°"°"Y°‘

labor performed and materials i'urnished; and such lien may bc cnforced J“ gmem"
by levy and sale under execution upon said judgment.

Limitation of Actions.
1. Sixty years’ possession good title.
2. In what cases thirty years a bar.

9. Actions within four years.
10. Actions for words.

3. Surveys inspected, dzc., bar against proprietors.

ll. Against whom not to ruu.

4. Boundaries oflunds between persons, how usceriained.

1‘). Amended by section 30.

5. What surveys of no Avail without previous notice to the

13. Actions on sealed instruments.

possessor.
6. Prior surveys to have preference, &c.

H. Judgments.
15. _\'on-residents excepted.

7. To what cases this act shall not extend.

16. Extended in case of death.

5- Actions Within six years.

17. New promise to be in writing.

1972
18.
19.
20.
21.

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

What indorsetnent orfpayment not suiiiclent.
Act to apply to set-off.
Bond by executor, &c.
Bond by insolvent.

22. Bond by justice.

27.
‘Z8.
29.
30.

Actions by the state.
Actions on penal statutes.
When forfeiture to county or township.
Limitation of actions on bonds of sherlifs, collectors of

constables.

23. Right of entry, when barred.
24. Action for lands.

31. Supplied by section 32.
3'3. Revival ofjudgments on forfeited recognizance;

25. Equity of redemption.

33. When judgment ceases to be alien.

26. Judgment reversed or arrested.

Rev. so.

An act for the limitation of suits respecting titles to land.

R. S. 652.

Passed June 5, 1787.

-“my-"°"$’P°**"

\Vimiu-:.»\s, 'l‘he laws, now in force, for the limitation oi‘ suits respecting
real estates, are found insufficient to answer the good purposes of quieting
claims and secn ring titles-thereforee,
1. 'l‘hat sixty years’ actual possession of any lands, tenements, or other

session g°°Mme' real estate, uninterruptedl_v continued by occupancy, descent, conveyance
or otherwise, in whatever way or manner such possession might have coin
menced, or have been continued, shall vest a full an(l complete right and
title in every actual possessor or occupier of such lands, tenements, or
other real estate, and shall be a good and suiiicient bar to all claims that
may be made, or actions commenced b_v any person or persons whatever,
1"‘""“‘°°**°“
thirty yearsabar.

for the recovery oi any such lands, tenements, or other real estate. (a)
2. '|‘hat thirtv rears’ actual possession of any lands, tenements or other
‘- '
.
A
.“
_
real estate, umnterruptediv
continued
as aioresaid,
where\er
such pos
session commenced, or is founded upon a proprietar_v right duly laid

thereon, and recorded in the surve_vor-general’s office of the division in
which such location was made, or in the secretar_v’s oilice, aj;'i'eca.lily to

law. or wlierever such possession was obtained by a fair bon-.1 iide purchase
oi‘ such lands, tenements, or other real estate, of an_v person or persons
whatever, in possession, and supposed to have a legal right and title
thereto, or oi‘ the agent or agents oi‘ such person or persons, shall be a
good and suilicient har to all prior locations, rights, titles, conve_\'ances,
or claims whatever, not followed b_\' actual possession as :ii'oresa.id, and
shall vest an absolute ri_<_rht and title in the actual possessor and occupier
Proviso.

of all such lands, tenements, or other real estate; ]n'0cz'd¢'1I a./uvzys, that if

any person or persons, having a i'i_gl1t or title to lands, tenements, or other
real estate, shall. at the time of the said right or title first descended or
accrued. be within the :1;_Y(_~ oi‘ twenty-one _\"ears. feme covert, non compos,
imprisoned. or without the Iinitcd States of .~\1n<-rica. then such person or

persons, and his and their heir and heirs, may. notwitlistantling the afore
said timcs are expired, be entitled to his or their action for the same, so as
sot-ll person or persons, or his or their heirs, commence or sue forth his or

their action within five years ai'ter his or their i'ull age, discoverturc,
coming oi‘ sound mind, enlargcniciii'. out oi‘ prison, or coming within any
PP°"lS°of the l.'nited States. and at

no time after; and ylrovirjlerl 0/.»-0, that any

citizen or citizens oi‘ this or any other of the United States, and his or their
heirs. having ri_<___rlit or title to any lands. tenements, or other real estate
within this slate, may. notwithstanding the aforesaid times are expired,

commence his or their action i'or such lands. tenements, or other real
estate, at any time within live _\'t-ars next after the passing of this act, and
not aiii-rwards.

3. 'l‘h:it any Slll'\'0§', made of any lands, within either the eastern or
"

‘A

proprietors.

western division of the proprietors oi‘ the state oi‘ New Jersey. and inspected
_
_
_
and approved of b_v the _;<-ueral proprietors. or council of proprietors of

such division. and b_\' their order or direction entered upon record in the_
secreiar_v'.< oilice oi’ this siate,or in the so1'\"e_vor-general's oilice in such
division. shall. i'rom and :'.i'tcr such rel.-ord is made. preclude and forever
llll.l' such proprietors and their successors from any demand thereon, any

plea ol'deii<rienc_\' of ri_;ht or otllerwise notwithstanding. (Ii)
(n) i|'ri{/M V.-K’/‘o!!,4 li'r|vh. ". '_’. iii.
(hi .-lrnold V. Jlumlg/, l llol. GS. h'.~(v'!l V. ,l»'2':':'/.".~'/~11]; Loml (‘~., ti l'r. '33.‘).

t
Urn, u'm'dnrr v. .5‘/carp, ~i li'<t.~rh. U. C 609.

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

1973

4. That if any person or persons, for the purpose of establishing the Boundariesof
boundaries of lands between them, shall, by certiﬁcate under their hands ‘““““’“,‘,"‘*°“
and
certify
seals,
untoexecuted
the clerk
in of
thethe
presence
county of
or two
counties,
or more
wherein
subscribing
such line
witnesses,
or par
tition shall lay,any lines, corners, and boundaries, as shall by them be
allowed and acknowledged to be the true bounds betwixt their lands; and

the said certiﬁcate, ﬁled in said clerk’s oﬂice, and recorded by said clerk
in a book to he by him provided for that purpose, shall be as fully conclu

sive and binding to the parties so certifying, and their heirs and successors,
as could have been done by deeds of quit-claim or in any other manner
whatsoever.
Rev. 104.

Supplement.

___
Passed November 28, 1789.

\VnsanAs, There may be divers ancient surveys of land fairly made,
which by the neglect of officers, or through some casualty, have not been
put on record, and others, the records whereof have been destroyed by ﬁre
or lost; by reason whereof, and the natural decay of marked lines and
corners, the ancient metes and bounds cannot be clearly ascertained but
by testimony and reputation; and whereas, it hath been found, on running
the lines of divers such surveys, that they hold more,or extend farther
than their strict length of chain, large measures having been formerly
allowed, even by the proprietors, as an encouragement to location, of
which avaricious persons do, or may take advantage against the owners
and possessors of such lands, by confining their surveys to the net length
of chain, thereby making vacancies of valuable improved parts, some
whereon buildings are erected and made, and on causing surveys to be
made of such overplns, have procured and may procure the same to pass
the council of proprietors without legal notice, or due preference given to
the possessors, who may have innocently supposed their title was indefens
ible, or otherwise would have willingly resurveyed, covered, and secured
the same; for remedy whereof in future,
5. SEC. l. That no such newly-made partial survey, now lying within
the council of proprietors. or which may hereafter he returned to them, or
made on any lands improved or unimproved within what has been usually
taken and deemed to be the ancient reputed boundary of such lands, shall

R. S 653.

Preamble

Whatsurveysof
11° """W"l1°u@
{’,::v'3;l:s‘::'°°'°
p
L

be recorded or be of any avail to the person so surveying, unless it shall
be made to appear, by the testimony of at least two good and suﬂicient
witnesses, that the possessor or possessors, holding such lands by survey,
deed, or otherwise, had been duly notiﬁed, for the space of six months

previous to the making of such survey, of the intention of doing thereof,
and had refused or neglected to resurvey and cover such overplus lands. (a)
6. S1-:0. 2. That if the council of proprietors shall refuse or neglect to Prlorsurveysto
give the preference to any prior survey, legally made, or to the possessor or "“"° P“""°"°°
possessors of any tract of land, enabling such possessor or possessors to M‘

cover with rights, and secure such overplus lands, which may be found
within their ancient bounds, on such possessor or possessors makings.
resurvey of his or their lands within six months after such legal notice as
aforesaid, that it shall and may ‘oe lawful for such possessor or possessors,
or any other person legally authorized on his, her, or their behalf, to cause
a resurvey to be made, agreeably to the ancient reputed lll1€S and bound
aries, either by a deputy surveyor. or some other person understanding
the art of surveying, and appropriate so many rights thereon as will be

suﬂicient to include the overplus, which surveyor or person so surveying,
being duly qualiﬁed before a justice of the peace of the county wherein
the land may lie, that the survey, so by him made, isjust according to the
best of his knowledge, the same may be produced to the clerk of the
county, who is hereby required, on the receipt thereof, to record the same

in the book directed to be kept in the respective counties, by the act
entitled “ An act for the limitation of suits at law respecting titles to land,”
(a) Lfppincott v. Souderr, 3 Hal. 161.

Drn, Mrlllurlrie v. Mrdfuﬂriv, 3 Gr. 277.

mm, ,‘n

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

.

, passed‘ at Burlington the ﬁftii day of Junc, seventeen liniidred and eighty
seven, which sur\'e_y so made and recorded, shall give such owner and

possessor an absolute title in fee.
"Po what cases this
.act shall not

-extend.

[See Svavt;Ys.]

" 7. ’SEC. 3. That nothing in this act contained shall be construed or taken
to a'utliorize any person or persons to make_aii_v siii'\'e_\' within the certain
or reptited hounds of any stirvey, or resiii-vey inade and entered on record
agreeably to the said recited act, any large or overplus measure therein
contained, notice as aforesaid given, deficiency ol' rights or other plea to
the contrary notivitlistaiidiiig.

R. s. 92.
.e. L. 1855, p. 496.
" 1359, p. so.
*- 1860, p. 691.
Actions withlii
six years.

An act for the limitation of actions.
Revision-Approved March 27, 1874.

8. SEC. 1. That all actions of trespass, quare claiisiim fregit, all actions of
trespass, detiinie, trover, and replevin for taking away of goods and chattels,

B. S. 9;’, Q 1.

all actions of debt, foiiiided upon any lending or contract without specialty,
or for arrearages of rent due on a parol demise. and all actions of account
and upon the ease.(a.) except actions for slander, and except. also, such
actions as concern the trade or merchandise lietweeii inercliaiit and mer
chant, their factors, agents, and servants, (Ii) shall lie commenced and sued
within six years next after the cause of such actions shall have accrued,
and not after. (0)
(iii On a note payable on demand, the statute begins to run
“froin the time of making the note. Lorna-on v. Lmnberl, 7 Hal.
247
.'l_'I!'Ii.! v .»mvm, 5 Dirk. 566. Where a note is given to
renew one iigaiiist which the statute has nearly become a bar,
and ii is aoieiiateil, the statute is a good bar six years from the
time it becoiues due. Prtul v. Smith, 3 Vr. 13. it was sus
endeil during the revolution. Jfonlgomri-y v. Brurrrf, 1 Soul/i.
mil. It applies to asetoff.
Nolin v. Bliirkuxlt, 2 la’:-. 170. To
an action i'or use and occupation. Qmovrfr v. (.Ymovr'r, Sor. 404.
If an account is prima fade barred by the statute, and it is
pleaded, it should not be overruled by iliejustice. Suyrrs v.
Scuddrr, Dru. "'54.
Ncaﬂc v. Acker-man. Pm. 1'56‘). See Stout v.
Scaoroolﬂv E.recuIors, 3 Sttw. 187.
7bdrl v. I£u1ferly's .-lilmi'iu'.ii
trators, 3 Stric. ‘Z5-t. A suit in equity for an account, founded on
a covenant in a sealed instrument, is not barred by a delay of
more than six years from the last breach of the covenant.
Ltlliendahl v. S1: nmair, 18 Slew. 6-IS. It ham an action brought
by an executor to recover money overpaid to a legatee. Ely v.
Norton, 1 Hal. 187.
An insolvent discharged cannot plead the
statute toa debt due before. Scolt v. bluckliousc, 1 Hal. -131.
Eivmx v. Hiijfnuin, l Hal. Ch. 35%. It is a positive and legal bar
in all cases within its provisions. T/lI.)I‘))v; v. Cbrivin, Span. 311.
See Coo/i: v. Smi'Ui,l l'r. 39-l. If a party has been restrained
from suing by an injunction, the statute is a good plea, but
equity may enjoin the defendant from pleading it. Ikkuy v.
Dm'r-ih, 2 Hr. 288. Douyltly v. Doimhly, 2 Stock. 3-i7. An action
commenced but not prosecuted to judgment, is no bar. Ivins
v. Sc/ioobey. 3 Ha-r. 289. Damages done within six years bya
nuisance erected before the six years, are not barred, where the
nuisance has not been so long erected as to raise a presumption
ofa grant. l)¢’lflIl‘(l7‘I‘ and .Rr|riIun Canal Ct). v. Ii'!'i-{I/ll, 1 Zab.
469. [)r'Iriiu1irP and 1i'(tri'fan Canal Co. V. Lec, 2Z(lb. 243.
ib) when an account maybeconsldered asarunningaccount.
Friiiikliri v. tiiuip, (‘ore 196. An account for ﬁrewood, liay, &c.,
the Dl’Odt1(‘l'4ul'[)l:1.illilﬂ'S farm, is not an account between mer
chants. Jfillrr v. Cblwrll, 2 Soulh. *577. It is now extended to
the accounts of persons other than merchants. Belles v. Battrs,
7 1IaL339. It applies to a set-off by the defendant. Smilh v.
Ruecristlr, ‘.3 l{ul. 357. -S‘-ntfile overruled. Nolirt v. Bliic/rivcll, 2
Vr. 173. There must be items on hoih accounts within six years.
Gulick ads. ’1'io'npikr: Go, 2 Gr. 545. Nor can the. plaintifff re
move from the statute that part of his account which is more
than six years old by giving the defendant a credit not claimed
by him. Hi'bli--r v. Johnson, 3 Hrir. 266. A submission to arbi
tration cannot keep alive indefinitely an account between part
ners. (fowurr v. Prrriiu", 3 C’. E. (Jr. 454.
(c) The statute must be pleaded, and cannot be taken advan
tage ofuuder the general issue. I);-rind v. 1A)ll{I.\‘U‘t'('f, l Soiitli.

#325. If ll bill in equity states a. ease to which the statute
applies, without bringing it within sortie of its exceptions, the
defendant may take advantage of the statute by demurrer.
Bird v. Im-lrr, 8 U. E. (Ir. 363.
ii'isnr~r v. B/ll‘1t*'l, -1 Wash. 1.‘. O.
631. Or by plea or answer. (‘onomtr v. Wright, 2. Jliil. Uh. 613.
Rm-kinrni v. I)wi~/.~rr, 8 C’. E. fir. 263. Upon a replication filed to
a plea that there was no promise within six years, an agree
ment not to take advantage of the statute cannot be given in
evidence. (i;ll»‘(|7'f v. Peri-i'iir, 6 C’. E. Ur. lol. A plea of non
rtiisu/np.ut within Pi;/M years is had. It’i'g_o.s v. Qiiirlc, 1 Hm‘. 160.
After it is (l\’rl‘!‘lllt‘fI it cannot be t1;.'.'aiii pleaded bytlie same
parties orthi-ir privles. 1"l.'(h('7' v. Riitlierforil, Bold. (‘. C.1i€L‘i.
Trusts which fall within the proper, peculiar and exclusive
urlsdiction ot'i~ourts of equity are not subject to the statute of
imitations, I>'iir-Ii-iiiglinm v. Liuilum, 10 Slew. 137. ii'i'lli'run.s v.
J{cli'a_1/, 13 Shiv. 189. ii'fUI'f1I‘Ii8 V. Reilli/, 1-I Sfru.-. 137. l1’iuIi‘ng
v. 1t'i1.~'Ii'ii,/1,1-') .8‘/cw. 594. J1;//‘r V. ii'ii(m'x, 1 1)i'i-/i". 484. \\'here
there ls both a li-gal and equitable remedy for the same cause of

action, if the legal remedy is barred by lapse of time the
equitable remedy will also be held to be barred. S'mt'lh’s Ad
ininislmitor v. Wood, l5.\'Ir'w. 563. See Gulch v. Ibsdick, 3 1)icIi:.
353. Agens v A{n"n.v, -5 I)i'c/r. 566. A hill was filed against it de
fendant by the directors of a bank. alleging eiiibezzletiietits of
its funds by lilm when cashier thereof between 186'.’ and 187-I.
He was elected president in the latter year and held that office
until 1880. It was alleged he fraudulently t*n|l(.‘P8lPd the em
bezzletnents until their discovery in 1881. Held, that the statute
oflimitatious might be pleaded to the bill. Noiiin-.w.-I Bunk v.
W;/hie, 15 Slriv. 39. The presentation ofa claim to an adminis
trator, alter he has initiated proceedings to declare the estate
insolvent, suspends the running of the statute. Smtlli v. (Wruer,
16 Slrw. 636. But not where application is made for an order to
sell lands to pay debts. Eivril! v. li'il!icim..s, 16 l r. 140. A court
of equity has power to prevent a defendant from setting u the
statute of limitation as a defense to an action at law Whit‘ the
defendant has prevented the plaintifff from bringing until suffi
cient time has elapsed to render such defense available to him.
Lamb v. .’iIm'tiii, 16 -\'lr'w. 34. See, also, Tcrhunt V. HarA'nisack
Saiiing.r Bank, 18 Slew. 344. Ilerbrrt v. llerbert, 2Dick.l1. It
lsa well-settled rule in equity that in cases of fraud the timo
llinlted within which the action must be brought will not com
mence to run until the discovery of the fraud. or until the com
plainant was in asltuation where. by the exercise of reasonable
diligence, he would have discovered the fraud. Lincoln v.
Judd, 4 Dick. 387. The statute oi’ limitations will not be applied
in equity to an express trust unless it appears that the trustee
has held the funds claimed adversely for the statutory period.
.S'mi‘z/i v. Qmibs, 4 Dick. 420. \Vhen the time is to be computed
from a date the day is excluded, and when it is to be computed
from an event or an act the day is included. McC'uIl-och v.
]'!l)])[)¢"1', 7 N. J. L. J. 336. See, also, I8 Vr. 189. Where it clearly

appears on the face of a bill ofcomplalnt that complainant's
riglit of action is barred. advantage may be taken of the statute
oi‘ limitations by demurrer. 1’m~!ri'dge v. liklls. 3 .S'lrw. 176.
The statute is not a bar to a suit in equity for the recovery of
a legacy payable out of the personal estate only. Hedge; V.
Nori-i'.<, 5 Stew. 192. The actions of debt limited by the statute
are those only growliigoutolcontract, orsucn as are given by
statute for the enforcenieiit oi‘ penalties. The statute. does not
run against an action of debt for the enforcement of an assess

ment fora local impovenient, unless the statute authorizing
the assessnient so provides. Dickiiismi v. 7'»-nitom, 8. S-(me. -I16.
Nor to a salary due from a city. O1llll‘ﬂ1I’7'\'.1Jt(.!S(1lt','Z‘l Fr.
345. (‘mi-milicmen v. 1"”-i-Iiolilm-.w, 15 Vr. 232. ()ne partner can
not set up the statute against the other in a case where there
have been dealings in respect to the partnership affairs within
six years. 1i'iirki1i;iIuon v. Liuiluni, 10 Stew. 138. \Vhen a right

ofaetion has become barred under the statute, the statutory
defeiise is a vested right that cannot beimpaired by subsequent
legislation. 1.’;/ii» r v. li'il.win’x 1'.‘.rm-iilors, 12 i’r. 9. See,also,
.i!oor¢' v. Sirite, 14 i'r. ‘.303. '1‘lie payment of interest on the pruni
lssory note of a iirm by a copartner, after a dissolution of the
copartnersliip, but within six years after the maturity of the
note, the payment having been niade within six years before
the bringing of the suit, takes the note out of the statute.
('rr.wr'bo1l v. .-ic/t-e*r~1niiii, 17 i'r. 169. A foreign judgment, when
sued on here, is subject to our statute oi‘ limitations, being
barred by the lapse oi‘ six years. Siuiirncrsidc Bunk v. Ramsey,
26 l'r. 383. In an action oi’ <i.<sunip.o't, a plea of the statute of
limitations was interposed. A replication, setting up a fraudu
lent concealnient of the cause of aciion until a time within the
statutory limit of six years, and seeking thus to avoid the bar
ofilie statute, was held to be had on demurrer. Relief in such
case must he sought in equity. Fret:/ioltlrrs of Somerset v.

LI.\lI'l‘ATlON OF ACTIOi\'S.
. 9. SEC. :2. That all actions of trespass for assault,1nenace,battery, wounding, and imprisonment, or any oi‘ them, shall be commenced and sued within
four years next after the cause of such action shall have accrued, and not
ai'ter.
'
10. Size. 3. That every action upon the case for words shall be commenced and sued within two years next after the words spoken, and not
after.

1975
Actions within
21"’ 3f_°“"‘
"’“'
Forwonis.
1"-in

_

1].. SEO. 4. That ii‘ any person or persons who is, are. or shall he entitled Aiminsiwhum
to any oi‘ the actions speeiiied in the three preceding sections oi’ this act, is, ‘I’? ‘;’_"'““'
are, or shall he, at the time oi‘ any such cause oi’ action accruing, within the A,',',,,,,§,_,,,_
age of twenty-one years, or insane, (a) that then such person or persons

'

‘

shall he at liberty to bring the said action so as he, she, or they institute
or take the same within such time as is bel'ore liinite.d after his, her, or

their coming to or lieiiig oi’ l'ull age, or oi‘ sane memory, as by other per
son or persons having no such iinpediineiit might be done.

12. SEC. 5. [Amended by Sec. 30, post]
13. SEC. 6. That every action oi‘ debt or covenant l'or rent or arrearages Sealed instru
of rent, founded upon any lease under seal. whether indented or poll, and "w'"-‘i_
every action oi‘ debt upon any single or penal hill for the payment (ifi1'l;£I:"'ied_

money only, or upon any obligation with condition i'or the payment oi‘
money only, or upon any award under the hands and seals ol' arbitrators
for the payment of money only, shall be commenced and sued within six
teen years iiext al'ter the cause oi’ such action shall have accrued, and not
aiLer;(h) btit il' any paytneiit shall have been niade on any such lease,

specia.lt_\', or award, within or alter the said period of sixteen years, then
an action instituted on such lease, specialty or award, within sixteen years

after such payment, shall he good and eii'eetual in law, and not ai'ter; (c)
provided, alzvays. that the time during which the person who is or shall be Proviso.
entitled to any oi’ the actions speciiied in this section shall have been within
the age of twenty-one years, or insane, shall not be taken or computed as
part oi‘ the said limited period ofsixteeii years.
14. SEO. T. That jiitlgtneiits in any court oi‘ record of this state may be JutliZ"\i'=‘"l-‘?

revived by scire facias, or an action of debt in:i_v be hrou_;ht thereon within “"'@7'
twenty years next after the date of such jiidgnieiit, and not alter; ;n'ovi(Ied, l"""‘-“°

that the time during which the person who is or shall be entitled to the Am“"ded
beneﬁt of such judgment shall have been under the a_~_5e of tweiity-one
years, or insane, shall not he talten or computed as part of the said limited
period of twenty years. (:1)

15. SEC. 8. That ii’ any person or persons il_‘_IlllllSl; whom there is or shall .\'oli~resldenls
be any such cause of action as is specilied in the lirst, second, third, fifth, “‘°"P‘_““

sixth and seventh sections oi‘ this net, shall not he resident in this state Ih"H'
when such cause of action accrues, or shall l'emo\'c l'i-om this state al'ter the
Venhte, I5 I’;-. 509.

An executor may retain, out of the assets

of the estate, a debt due to himself, althouizh it be mort‘ U111"
si x years old. In re Emile of Jo/in 1’/nf_IIip.<, d(.’(‘('!l8f‘ll, 6 N. J. 1.. J.
871. The statiiteof limitations should be regarded asastrlct
defense, and if the party lets it slip, the court ought not to
relieve him. lﬁst Iloboken v. S1/m-~', 20 I-'r. 546. Query--Is the
statute oi‘ limitations a bar to a debt due from husband to wii‘e ?
Gray V. Urny, 1'2 Slew. 511. See, also. l'r‘onuin.t V. I’F(I_r/, 13 Slew.
4aa,\\-liere it was held that the statute is notabar to sueha
claim. Recovery oi‘ apreniium paid in violation oi’ the usury
laws was held to be barred by the statute, one oi‘ the firm by
which it was taken having lived in this state for over six years.
Adana v. .‘l!uhnk¢~n, iii .S'Iru.'. 373. See, also, .1!<n'tt'n v. Lamb, 13
$010. 669. Arne!!! v. Penney, 14 Slew. H7.
(rt) Whether insane is a question for the jury. under the
directiolt of the court. Dru, Sire-tin-/ii V. Sl(‘f’[lIU.(H, l Hm‘. 68.

(b) [t he-Lrins to run from the time when the bond is due, and
not from its date. Richmmt v. Richmnn, 5 Ila!-. 114. It is pre
sumed to have been paid after sixteen years. .-'l!r'n.<r v. S'lr‘w'ns,
Our 4&3. But not after twelve years. Kinna v. S/rtilh, '2 Hr.

Ch. H.

\\'here a. mortgage is given as security i'or a bond, it

may be forechtsed alter suit on the bond is barred.
Cundil. '2. lid! 114. bhrnrd V. Burnril, 6 C. E. Hr‘. 245.

to bonds executed he-fore the dateoi its passage.

ﬂlnrrix v.
It applies

Moi-.\-Ion v.

&*ahur_i/_ Hen. *~lft5. A plea. that the bond was not mmir within
sixteen years is had. Rirrhmnn v. Richmmi, 3 llul. 55. \\'here :1.
written lease is not under seal, and isaccompanied with a so rely
agreement which is under seahalthough the principal debtor

may plead in bar arlio non accreri! mfru sear ((711108 on his eon
tract. not under seal, the action against the surety on his cont raet
under seal will not be, barred until the lapse of sixteen years.
Wagoner v. muu, I5 Vr. 126, I6 Vr. Iii-i. A recognizance is not

within the bar of the statute of limitations of this state. Et
anucr v. Hatna, 23 Vr. 10.

(c) The lndorsements of payments on the bond must be
proved by the pltiintlifto have been made at, or soon alter, the
tin.e they bear dnte before they can be read in evidence, and
also that they were niiule by or with the consent of the obli',~,or.
Form of pleading in such case. Hm I/i/.~r v. Von 1111.-1», 3 Hr.
289. Upon a replication that the action accrued within sixteen
years,proof of payinenis on the bond is lnadniissible. Von
In//.-n v. l'on ll»//.1", 2 llur. 478. But plaintiil'.~i niny amend. S.
('., -i Ilnr. l. A pnriini pavincnt by one oi‘ twojoint ohlitgors, if
made while the joint liability exists, will take it out oi‘ the
statute. ])i.¢hofoi1yIi V. I>'i/llemrm, .5'prn. ‘.375, 1 Zoo, 677. lint not
if such iayinent be made after the deathof one obli-.:or as
ﬁﬁlillllﬁl its heirs. Jh. If there are t/ii-re joint and several
obligors, the death of one only S(:\‘PI‘S his liability, and a pay
ment by one survivor is good as a:.;ainst the other. lforlirs v.
I~'1mii'~_r/, l i'r. 349. A payment by one of twojoint and several
promisors alter the deaili of the other, is good as against the
reprcseiitatiws of the latter. ]i'»‘i',//rn V. 11/im'.<.i-oii, Sprn. 282.
Iiifrn, lieu, 17,
But if the bond be barred, a pnyinent or

pronilse u_f!ci' the statute has run cannot revive ii.

J,mI/ow v.

'l'dn ('(llH]I, 2 Ilnl. ll.'l. Zllunstun V. b'lT(ll/tl)'_Ij, 1'rn. "70.’. See
ﬂlmse v. -S'!¢'iv'n.¢, (‘ore 433.
(11) A 8¢‘ll'(ZfIl(‘l'(l8l-*i.\‘Il('(l onajudgment i‘ii'ty_vears old,withont
perniission, was qllIt.\ll(-ti, }’em's v. b’n/~lu‘, (‘owe '.‘l’i6. A jlltl,‘.{

ment is presumed to be satisﬁed after twenty years.

Gui.-‘r/.' v.

J11!!! r,l (H.138. A bill to revivea. jiidgineiit filed more than
twenty ye:ir.~i after the judzinent. was obtained, was disnilssed.
Jim! v. Inslrr’, 8 C‘. I2’. Ilr, Iiizii. A jiidgiiieiit creditor was allowed
to explain why he allowed ajiiiigiiieiitaiid execution io remain
uiisatisfled for t\vent_v-i'onr years, when ample property oi‘ the
debtor had been levied on. Jolnmin. v. Tirllle, l Smrrk. 363. A
sr-ir'c_/arias on an F,rr‘r’ll(i0ll is included in the act. Buchurutn v.
Rowland, 2 South. W21.

1976

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
same shall accrue, and before the time of limitation mentioned in said
sections is expired, then the time or times during which such person or
persons shall not reside in this state shall not be computed as part oi‘ the
said limited period within which such action or actions are required to be
brought as aforesaid; but the person or persons having, or who may have,
such cause of action as aforesaid, shall be entitled to all the time men
tioned in the said several sections, for bringing their said actions after the
cause thereof shaii accrue, exclusive of the time or times during which the
person or persons liable to such actions shall be not resident in this state
as aforesaid. (a)

Extended ln case
of death.
Ib., Q 9.

16. S1-:0. 9. That if any person, against whom there is or shall be any
such cause of action as is speciﬁed in the ﬁrst, ﬁfth, sixth, or seventh sec
tions of this act, shall have died or shall hereafter die before the expiration

of the times of limitation therein mentioned, the space or term of six
months next succeeding the death of such person shall not be computed as

New promise to
be in writing.
Revision.

Proviso

Proviso.

part of the limited period within which such action or actions is or are
required to be brought by the said sections. (b)
17. Sec. l0. That in actions of debt or upon the case, grounded on any
simple contract, no acknowledgment or promise by words only, shall be
deemed sufficient evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take
any case out of the operation of this act, or to deprive any person of the
beneﬁt thereof, unless such acknowledgment or promise shall be made or
continued by or in some writing to be signed by the party chargeable
thereby; and that where there shall be two or more joint contractors or
executors, or administrators of any contractor, no such joint contractor,
executor, or administrator shall lose the beneﬁt of this act so as to be
chargeable in respect, or by reason only of any written acknowledgment
or promise, and signed by any other or others of them; provided always,
that nothing herein contained shall alter or take away or lessen the effect
of any payment of any principal or interest made by any person whatso
ever; provided also, that in actions to be commenced against two or more
such joint contractors or executors or administrators, ii‘ it shall appear at

What ludorse
ment or payment
not su ﬁicient.
Revision.

Act to apply to

set-oﬂ.
Revision.

the trial or otherwise that the plaintiff, though barred by this act as to one
or more of such joint contractors or executors or adnlinistrators, shall,
nevertheless, be entitled to recover against any other or others of the
defendants by virtue of a new acknowledgment or promise, or otherwise,
judgment may be given, and with costs allowed for the plaintifff as to such
defendant or defendants, against whom he shall recover, and for the other
defendant or defendants against the plaintifff. (r-)
18. SEO. 11. That no indorsement or memorandum of any payment
written or made, alter this act shall go into effect, upon any promissory
note, bill of exchange, or other writing, by or on behalf ofthc party to
whom such payment shall be made, shall be deemed sufiicient proof of
such payment so as to take the case out of the operation of this act. (d)
19. SEO. 12. That this act shall be deemed and taken to apply to the
case of any debt on simple contract alleged by way of set-oii' on the part of
the deicndant.

(rt) It applies to cases where the cause of action accrued and
defendant remm ed from the slate p1'irn- to its pnssaze. Smith

v. 1'ucl:n~, 2 Jlnr. 82. Bee lﬂvana v. Htofman, l Hut. Uh. 3-54. A
plea ofuun-resilience at the time of trial is no exception. .Hul
my v. Reach, Pen. ‘"123.

The defendant must be either non

resident. when the cause of action accrues, or must have re
moved alter it accrued and before the time oi‘ limitation
expired. Puummn Bank v. Lmllnw, 6 Hal. 354. The non
resldence of one of two joint debtors does not take it out of the
statute. Bruce v. Flagg, 1 Dulrh. 219.
A defendant is entitled
to a set-oil‘ where the piaintiﬂ resided outuf the state at the
time the action accrued, and so continued until stilt was

there was an executor dc 801! Iorf. Bumet v. Br;/rm,l Iiul. 877;
contra, Dekny v. Darrrth, 2 /v'r. '1'.’/8.
(0) On fore-closure of a mortgage more than twenty years old,

that the defendant, in takimzadeed fur port of the premise;
within twenty years,accepled the title subject to the mortgage,
is n suilicient acknowleiignieiit to take the case out 0

section and lakes it out of the statute. Rmmlme v. Lbrliez Ls
Vr. 108. Payment of interest on a contract has now the seine
effect to keep alive the contract. with respect to the statute of

hrun,':h:,nnd defendant became B resident within nix years

limitations as it had before the revision.

after the action accrued, and so continued. Nolin v. Elm-I.-well,
2 Vr. I70. The act does not extend to suits by non-resident
r1'I'riil01'.! against non-resident debtors. Bmrdslry v. Soutlnnuyd,
3 (Jr. 37i. Tlilmrrnr v. Brcntnnll, 3 I-lar. 262. Hale v. Lawrence,
1 Z410. TI3. il'noci v. Leslie, 6 Vr. 472.

16 Vr. 1.

(I!) Where A. had a demand against B. which was not harred
by the statute, and B. died inlaItate—Held, the statute would
not run until lettem ofadmlnlstration were taken out, although

the

statute. Morn-r v. Clark, 13 iS'lr:w. 152. Part payment of a book
account, with an express verbal promise to pny the balanqg
within NX years, brings the case within the ﬁrst proviso oi this

Anthony v. is-rm,

(<1) The indorsement or memorandum of payment by the
partyto Whom payment is made is no longer nufﬂcient mot
ll19\'90i'ib"i- MW Dllymcnl. when proved by competent evi egg
f|Il|l1ll1l‘,Wi1iClI would have been sufficient before the statute, is
still suiiiclent to remove the bar of the statute. Pnrlrcr v. Butler
worth, i7 Vr. 244.

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

1917

20. SEO. 13. That no action which may be brought upon any bond given
by any executor, administrator, guardian, trustee, receiver, or assignee,
under any law relating to insolvent debtors or insolvent estates, i'or the faith
ful performance of all or any oi‘ the duties of such executor, administrator,
guardian, trustee, receiver, or assignee, shall in ally wise operate against,
or in any manner affect the surety or sureties named in said bond, unless
such action be commenced within twenty years next after the date of said
bond ; and such surety or sureties, his or their heirs, devisees, or personal
representatives, may plead this act in bar of any action not commenced
within that time; provided, that the time during which the person who is
or shall be entitled to the beneﬁt of such bond shall have been under the
age of twenty-one years, or insane, shall not be computed as part of the
said limited period oi‘ twenty years; and provided further, that if any such
surety shall not reside in this state when the cause oi‘ action accrues on

Bond of executor,
0.0.

P. L. 1855, p. -I96.

such bond, or shall remove from this state after the same shall accrue, and

before the limitation herein mentioned shall expire, then the time or times
during which such surety shall not reside in this state shall not, in actions
against such surety, his heirs, devisees, or personal representatives, be
computed as part oi‘ the said limited pcriod;and if any such surety shall
(lie bei'ore the expiration of the time of limitation herein mentioned, then
the space or term oi‘ six months next succeediwr such death shall not, in
actions against the heirs, devisees, or personal representatives oi‘ such
surety, be computed as part of the said limited period.
21. SEC. 14. That any prosecution to be had or commenced upon any
bond heretofore given, or hereafter to be given, by any insolvent debtor or
person arrested upon ﬁnal process in any civil action, to the sheriii‘ oi‘ any
county in this state, for the heneﬁt oi‘ the prison limits, shall in nowise
operate against or in any manner affect the securities named and bound in
such bond, unless such

Bond ofinsolvent.
P. L. I859, p. 80.

Amended.

prosecution shall he commenced within sixteen

years next alter the date of said bond.
,
22. SEO. 15. That any prosecution to be had or commenced upon any
bond heretofore given, or hereafter to be given, hy any justice of the peace
and his securities, according to the eleventh section of the act entitled
" An act relating to justices of the peace,” approved April seventeenth,
eighteen hundred and forty-six, shall in nowise operate against, or in any
manner may aifect the said securities named and bound in said bond, their

Bond by justice.

P. L. 1860, p. 69l.

heirs, executors, or administrators, unless such prosecution shall be com

mencerl within ten years after the date of said bond, and not alter.
23. SEC. I6. That no person who now hath, or hereai'ter may have, any
right or title oi‘ entry into any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall

Bight ofentry,

when barred.

R. s. 92, Q i0.

make any entry therein, hut within twenty years next alter such right or
Amended.

title shall accrue; and such person shall be barred i'rom any entry ai'ter
wards; (a) provided, ulu'a_:/s, that the time during which the person who

Proviso.

hath or shall have such right or title oi‘ entry, shall have been under the
age oi" twenty-one years, or insane, shall not he taken or computed as part
of the said limited period of twenty years. (b)

24. SEO. 17. That every real, possessory, ancestral, mixed or other

Action for lands.

action, for any lands, tenements or hereditaments, shall he brought or f:’;]:n‘(;d
instituted within twenty years next after the right or title thereto, or

cause oi‘ such action shall accrue, and not after; (0) provided, aIil:a4/s, that
the time during which the person who hath or shall have such right Oi‘
title, or cause of action, shall have been under the age of twenty-one years,
(0) A

bie

ons@ion for twenty years under: par-oi

partition wlllgive rle. Den. Watson v. Kelly, l Hur 517. But
nor. for ﬁve or six years. Den, Woodhull v. Lonqrrtrezt, 8 Hnr.
406. Lloyd v. Gmmrer, 1 Dutrh. 47. See Dm, Howell v. Houvll,

Sptn. -ill. The statute will run against the proprietors. Chr
nellu-r v. Glberaon, 1 Dutch. 1. It applies to an action of dower.
Berrizr. v. Cbrwzxrr, 1 Har. WI.

813.

Qannvrr v. Wright, 2 Hal. Ch.

lwenty years’ adverse possession gives title.

lfickle v. Alpaunh, Pen. M46.

Den, Van

Possession by a father after his

n-on arrives at full age is adverse.

Den, Clark v. Lane, Ben.

N17 (2'). What constitutes adverse possession so as iournount to
n/Mice, ante, p. P55, note (r). See, also, Foulke v. Bond, I2 V1-.5-15.

Vlfhat possession plaintifff in ejectment must prove.

Drn v.

Johnmn, 2 Jfrll. 6. It does not begin to run againsta reversioner

or remninderman until after the esluie for life is terminated.
Prntkrwy v. Bin-rage, 2 Vr. 21. The statute oflimitatlons applies

'
Proviso.

as well to the board ofproprletors as to individuals.

Yard V.

Ocean Beach Association, 4 Dick. 306. Newark v. Watson, 27 Vr.

667.
(Ia) Such disability is personal, and can only he set up by the

parties or those claiming under them.

Dm, li'rrlson v. Kelly, 1

Hnr. 517. Den, Wat v. Pine, 4 Wash. O. C. 65H. Iflhe statute
once begins to run, it runs over all subsequent. disabilities.
Den, Clark v. Richards, 3 Hr. 347. De Kay v. I)lII‘1‘fI'l, 2 Gr, 233,

Den, Roberta V. ﬁloore, 3 iﬁrll. J1‘. 29?-.

See Lloyd \'. Gnrouer, 1

Dulrfll. -I8.

(ci Eiectment will not lie against a possessor oflunds for
twenty yeanr. Dm v. W1-ighl, 2 Hal. 175. Supra, Sec. ‘Z3 ((1).
Easements are acquired. ﬂrrmla v. Cooper, 4 C. E. Gr. 256.
'i‘\vemy years‘ adverse possession will establish u lille against
the proprietors. N:-lvnrk v. lVal.s0n, 27 Vr. 667. Yard v. Ocean
Beach Association, 4 Dick. 306.

LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.

I978

or insane, shall not be taken or computed as part of the said limited period
oftwenty years.
Equity of
redemption.
lb., Q 1'1.

Judgment re
versed or arrested.
Ib., Q 13.

25. Si-:0. I8. That if a mortgagee and those under him be in possession
of the lands, tenements and hereditaments contained in the mortgage, or
any part thereof, for twenty years after default of payment by the mort
gagor, then the right or equity of redemption therein shall be forever
barred. (a)
26. SEO. 111. That if in any of the said actions speciﬁed in any of the
preceding sections of this act judgment be given t'or the plaintiff, and the
same be reversed by writ of error, or ifa verdict; pass for the plaintifff, and

upon matter alleged in arrest ofjudgment, the judgment be given against
the plaintifff, then the said plaintiff, his or her heirs, executors or adminis
trators, as the case shall require, may commence a new action within one

Actions hy the
snue.
1b., I ll

year after such judgment reversed or given against the plaintifff, and not
after. (I1)
27. SEC. 20. That no person or persons, bodies politic or corporate, shall
be sued or inipleaded by the state of New Jersey, l'or any lands, tenements
or hereditaments, or for any rents, revenues, issues or proﬁts thereof, but

10 the state.

within twenty years after the right, title or causes of action to the same
shall accrue, and not after.
28. SEO. 21. That all actions or informations which shall be brought or
exhibited for any forfeiture upon any penal statute made or to be made,
whereby the said forfeiture is or shall be limited to the state of New Jersey
only, shall he brought or exhibited within two years next after the offense

To prosecutor.

committed or to be committed against such penal statute, and not after;
and all actions or inforrnations, which shall be brought or exhibited for

Actions on penal
amtlllcs.
1b., Q I6.

Where forfeiture

To state and
prosecutor.

any forfeiture upon any penal statute, made or to bc made, the benefit and
suit whereof is or shall be by the said statute limited or given to any
person or persons who shall prosecute for the same, or to the state of New
Jersey, and to any other who shall prosecute in that behalf, shall be
brought or exhibited by any person or persons who may lawlully sue for
thc same as aforesaid, within one year next after the offense committed
or to be committed against the said statute; and in default of such suit,
then the same shall be brought or exhibited for the state of New Jersey,
at any time within one year after the termination of the aforesaid year,

To party
aggrieved.

Proviso.

and not after; and all actions or informations which shall be brought or
exhibited for any forfeiture or cause upon any statute, made or to be

made, the beneﬁt and suit whereof is or shall be limited or given to the
party aggrieved, shall be brought or exhibited within the space of two
years next after the offense committed or to be committed, or cause of
action accrued, and not after; provided always, that where any action or
information is or shall he limited by any statute to be brought or exhibited
within a shorter time than is limited by this section, then the said action

where forfeiture
to county or
lu\vn~4hIp,

.1 n., 4 17.

or information shall be brought or exhibited within such shorter time so
limited by such statute. (0)
29. SI-Jo. 22. That all actions or informations which shall he brought or
exhibited for any forfeiture upon any penal statute, made or to be made,
whereby the said forfeiture is or shall be limit:-d to any county, township,
or town corporate, or to any oﬂiccr of such county, township, or town cor
porate. or to any person or persons for the use of such county, township,
or town corporate, or to the use of the poor ofsuch township or town cor
porate, either in whole or together with any other person or persons who

may lawfully sue for the same, shall he brought or exhibited within one
year next after thc offense COInlIlllibE-d. or to be committed, and not after;
/»/-oufiled alu-n_:/.-_ that where any action or information is or shall be limited

b_\' any statute to be brought or exliibitud within a shorter time than is
limitt-d by this section. then tb-- said action or information shall be brought
or exhibited within such sliortor time so limited by such statute.
(n; Bale.» v. Conrmr. 8 Stock. 137.

A morlgaze ls presnnn-d

satisﬁed if nothing has hm-n puid thereon for l\\'+-my years, or
the llll)l‘UZHRPt! has not entered into possession. }:'|'1|1ur \'. lluﬂl
man, I Hul. Ch. 3.5-I. Barnrd v. lfm-nrrl, G (7. E. (Ir. ‘.115. See
lfunnmlrrr v. Vun Bu.qIrh'k, Su.r. 685. ()llu]n'n V. ll'ri{1I|l, 14

Slew. -I38.

(D) Does not apply ton non-suit. Irirur v. .\‘r~h0oIry. 3 Hnr. 270'
(c) Iiuswrll v. l\'obln.wn, -l l'r. 273. .MclA11'€rl V. .’|[cVlcur, I2
l'r. 2Tl.
|

~$‘__,+ _ ._,,,_--an-I __

'
', "\

,

i iilliﬂ'i'illlll!ll '

.i,

.
I

. zit,

l

._ii
l

1979

LIS PEUDENS.

.i_~

Supplement.
Approved February 13, 1883.

30. Si-‘.0. i. That the ﬁftli section of the act to which this is a supple
ment [see Sec. 12, ante], be amended so as to read as follows:
[That any prosecution to be had or eonnnenced upon any bond hereto
fore given or hereafter to be given by any sheriff’ and his securities for the
faitliful performance of the office oi‘ sheritl', or by any city, county or

P L. 1883, p. 33.

Limitation oi
actions on bonds
oi slierlﬂls, collec
tors or constabl

~.~w._-— ’_Q_

_

7_._

township collector and the securities oi’ such collector for the i'aithi'ul per
formance oi‘ the duties of said office of collector. shall in no wise operate
against or in any manner affect the said securities named and bound in
said bond, unless such prosecution shall be commenced within nine years
after the (late of the said bond and not after; and any prosecution to he
had or commenced upon any bond lieretofore given or hereafter to be given
by any constable and his securities i'or the true and i'aithi'ul performance
of all duties enjoined on him as constable, shall in no wise operate against
or in any manner aﬂ'ect the said securities named and bound in said bond,
unless such prosecution shall be commenced within four years after the
date of the said bond and not ai'ter.]

-\

:-it—_~;p¢-—.

Supplement.
Approved February 15. 1886.

P. L. 1886. p. 27.

31. SEC. 1. [Supplied by Sec. 32,p0.s-L]
Supplement.
Approved April ‘Z7. 1886.

32. SI-:0. l. ’I‘hatjudgments in any court of record in this state entered
upon

forfeited recognizances in criminal cases may be revived by scire

P. L. 1886, p. -zse.
Revival ol'judg
mcnts on forfeited
recognlzunces.

facias, or an action of debt may he brought thereon within ten years next
after the date of such judgment and not after.
33. SEC. 2. That the lien oi‘ any judgment l|e|'etoio|'e entered upon a i'or
feited recognizance in acriminal case shall cease to be a. lien alter ten
years, notwithstanding the issuing oi‘ scire facias thereon, ii‘ no proceed
ings shall have been taken upon such scire facias within the past ten years.

L
i
When judgment
ceases to be a lien.

constructive notice to purchaser, &.c., until lis pmulrns is
ﬁled.

5. Order discharging lands from elfect ofIi.\:1u‘n4Irnx may be
madeifdefendant give security.
6. Fee for recording ahst ract or tliscliarge.

2. Li: pcmlewu to be recorded.

7. \\'hen judgment or decree is paid, or stilt settled or aban

8. Fee for recording lis1x'ndrn.<.
4. When decree or judgment is in favor ol'del'eudant. abstract.
thereof to be recorded.

dolled, statement may he liled.
8. \\'hen writ of error must be taken where In pr H1/(‘H8 ls ﬁled.

An act to provide for the ﬁling of a lis pendens in actions either at
law or in equity, relating to or affecting the possession or title of
lands or real estate.
Approved ]“ebrnar_v ll‘-, 1880.

1. That neither the issuing of a summons or subpoena, or other process
-or writ, nor the tiling of a declaration or bill in any suit relating to or
affecting the possession 0i' or title to lauds or real estate, nor any proceed
ings had or to he had thereon, either at law or in equity, before a iinal
judgment or decree, shall he deemed or i_ﬂ,l\‘cll to be const.ruct.ive notice to
any bona tide purchaser or inortgagee of any lands or real estate t.o be
affected thereby, until the plaintiff or complainant. in such aet1ion.or his
attorney or solicitor, shall have lirst liled. in the office oi‘ the clerk oi‘ the
court of common pleas. hut in counties where there is a register oi‘ deeds
and mortgages, in the office of the register oi‘ deeds and inortgages oi‘ the

O
I
LI

ti
g.
6

Lis Pendens.
1. No process affecting possesdon ofor title to lands deemed

_,-o

"0.
‘<*l

l’. L. ism, p. 29.
No process uiTect
ing po.~;session or
title to lands
tl|~¢‘l1lt31l construc
tive notice to
purelinser. &c.,
until lis pendens
is illecl.

\

2000

MA.\'DA.\lUS.

An act for the better regulation of proceedings upon writs of

Re“ m——'

mandamus.

R 3- 996Passed December ‘.3, 1794.

Rel urn to be made

to the ﬁrst writ.

1. That where any writ of mandamus shall issue out of the supreme
court directed and delivered to any person or persons, who, by law, is or
are required to i1i2tl\'Q a return to such writ, such person or persons shall

.

make his or their return to the ﬁrst writ of mandamus.
Proceedings

"\P'@""“'l"-*""
l” '°“""°d'

2. That from and after the passin_~._»' of this act, as often as any writ of

mandamus shall issue out of the said supreme court, and a return shall be
made thcreiinto, it shall and may be lawful to and for the person or per
sons, suing or prosecuting such writ of mandainiis, to plead to or traverse
all or any the material i'acts contained within the said return; to which
the person or persons, making such return, shall reply, take issue, or
demur; and such further proceedings, and in such manner, shall be had
therein, for the determination tiiereof, as might have been had, if the
person or persons, suing such writ, had hroiiglit his or their action on
the case for a false return; and if any issue shall be joined on such pro
ceedings, the person or persons suing such writ, shall and may try the
same in such place as an issue joined in such action on the case should or
might have been tried; and in case a verdict shall he found for the person
or persons suing such writ, 0l'_ judgment given for him or tin-in upon a
demurrer, or by nil ilicit, or for want of a replication, or other pleading, he
or they shall recover his or their damages and costs, in such manner as he
or they might have done in such action on the case as aforesaid; and such
damages and costs shall and niay be levied by ﬁeri facias, or capias ad
satisfacientluin, as in other cases; and a pereinptory writ of mandamus
shall be granted, without delay, for him or them for whom judgment shall
be given, as might have been if such return had been adjudged iiisuﬁieient,
:ind in case judgment shall be given for the person or persons making such
return to such writ, he or they shall recover his or their costs of suit, to

be levied in manner aforesaid. (a)
(a) 1. Of application for manda1n'us.—A mandaniu: will not be

tional. Lakewood v. Brlc!c,26 Vr. 275. A private relaior may

granted against a township committee until after they have

not, by manrlttmus, intervene between a municipal council, em
powered by its charter to build public sewers, and the com
mittee directed by ordinance to execute. the work of construct
ing a ‘particular sewer, when it appears thatihe council has
rei‘use to make any appropriation therefore and opposes the
granting oi‘ the writ. St. Vincent de Paul v. 1SuI‘l.(¢7l~‘OlU7l, 27 Vr.
148. See, also, O’ Harri v. Faglm, 27 Vr. 279.
2. Of allowance and nature of writs of mandamua.—In gen
eral a peremptory mandlunus is not granted in the ﬁrst instance
except by consent. Anon, 6 Hal. 03. Vi/here there is no quea

had due notice of the motion.

Anon. 2 Hal. 192.

That such

notice was given may be proved by ailidavlt. Dyrr v. Liullani,
1 Har. 531. A mistake in names, made by commissioners in
assessing damages, not aifecting tiie rights of the parties, can
not be inquired into on an application for a anuitduritus. Slate,
Cleveland v. Orange, 2 V1". 131. lilmidamus will not lie to a
township committee where it appears that they have not the

power to do what the relator seeks to have done. Freeholder:
of Ocean v. Township of Lacey, 13 i'r. 536. Private rights against
corporations or their oﬂicers, depending wholly on contract,
will not be enforced by mundumuts. Roscnfcld v. .EiIt8ll’t'll, 17
Vr. 479. A director in a private corporation prayed for a man
damus against his codirector, commanding the latter to permit
the former to have at all times an equal share and control with
hlin in the maiiagellieiitof the company's affairs. The writ
was refused hecaiise the prayer was too general and too broad.
lb Ifde fuclo oiiicers oi’ a municipality, being the governing
body, conlructadebt on behalf oi’ the miinlci ality, pass the
claim and order the treasurer to pay the bill, an the treasurer,
having thud.-i oi the municipality, reihses to pay, mandamus
against the treasurer is the proper remedy. Harvey v. Phil

brick, 20 Vr. 374.

A hill for expenses for detection oi’ offenders

against the criminal laws, properly veriﬁed by aiiidavit, ap
proved by the |ll'uS9(,‘illOl‘ of the pleas and approved and certi
ﬂed by the presiding judge oi’ the court of oyer and termiucr,
must be paid by the board of chosen freeholders on presenta
tion, and such payment will be enforced by 1ll(I)tlllImlIS. liming
V. .~lpplr:gutc‘, 20 i~'r. 376. A writ of nimidunius will go to a dis
trict court coinnianiiing it to issue an execution, which it with
held because. an appeal had been taken, when the notice of
ap eal was given alter a period of ten days irom the entry of
ju gment. Bnmnuin v. ffuln)/it'll, 20 l'r. 537. A '!l|f|7l(l(l7IlIl8 will
not be lS.‘5li8(l to the auditor oi‘ a county to audit and certify to
the collector, ior payment, the bills ofcosts and fees ofajiistlce
of the pence, under the act concerning disorderly persons and
the act lor SuppI‘9.‘~'Slilg‘ vice and immorality, since the speciﬁc
forms of auditing have been prescribed by statute in these
cases. Shumur v. Applegale, 22 Vr. 117. See, also, Irving v.
Appll.‘gutc,‘.!0 Vr. 376. A writ of mandamus will not issue to
compel a justice of the peace to alter an entry made in his

docket of the date at which an appeal bond was filed and
approved by him.

.1!o0nr_i/ v. 1-Jllwards, 22 Vr. 479.

1Hum.l(im1l8

tion of fact in dispute and the niatteris oi‘ public interest in
relation to an office oi‘ short term,a peremptorymaudmnu:
may properly issue. S/ale, Love v. Fneholam-s qr lludxon, 6 i'r.
269. Stale, I[(T1‘(lt’7‘ v. Hunlcrtlon, 7 Vr. 363. Stale, In-lly v. 11¢
crson, 6 Vr. 196. Alter a i'uli hearing on a rule to show Cause, a
Egremptory mandamus will be issued to require a municipal
ard of ﬁnance to appoint arbitrators as directed by an act of
the legisiaiu re. C'lcv€lund v. Jrrsey ('11,!/. 9 Vr. 259. The court,
in their discretion, may order an alternative mumluuuis on
making a rule to show cause absolute. Hugg v. rfmmlm, I0 Fr.

6'30. Mundmnus to open a road ought to be, in the first instance,
an alternative and not a peremptory writ. Slule v. ]~,‘lA-inlon, l
i'r. 335. The object of the alternative writ is to give the oppos
ing party the beneﬁt of a return and u. iull hearing on the
merits. Sltllr, Kelly v. Ptitcrsnn, 6 Vr. 196. An alternative writ.
bikes the place oi‘ a declaration and must conform thereto in
the essentials to good pleading. Fulrbtiiik v..\'h¢'ridnn, l-I i'r.
82. Rmlrr v. I-'nion, 1~i Fr 518. If detective, it may be quashed
or detnurred to before a return is made. lb. If inforniai, a new

writ may be had ou payment oi’ costs. Ifl. The prayer for
reliefin the alternative writ must be in exact conformity with
the legal obligation oi’ the defeiulaiil.

Rrillrr v. Cation, sinnn.

\Vhere the court, on demurrer to an alternative mumlumus,
holds the writ good and the demurrer bad, the relaior is enlit led
to judgment unless the defeiiiiiiiit shows a substantial deli:-use,

which can be presented by a return.

No costs can be awarded

to the relutor who succeeds on a demurrer to an alternative
inlimltlmils. Hopper v. .Fl‘(’t’/tOld(.‘1‘8 of Beryicn, 28 V1". 313. \\'hen
an oﬂice is full dc farm. oi‘ a person claiming it under color of
right, the proper remedy to test the claimant's title is qno unr
runln, and not mandamus. Lrrds v. Atlantic.‘ Cily, 23 l'r. 331
3. Of quasliing wri'l.\- of mmillnmus.--A motion to quash an
alternative writ of 1mindrlmu.s, granted after aigument upon

is the appropriate remedy to effect the restorailoii ofa member

notice, will not be entertained.

of a private corporaiioii who has been irregularly removed
from niembership.
Zwliﬁ‘ v. Kniy/hl.~i 0/ 1’_i/l/nun, 24 Vr. 536.
Sibley V. C'l!i‘tl'l'P£ Club of Ellzubelli, ii l'r. 295. jllumiumns pro
ceeding has not the quality of awrit oi‘ error to revise and
overturn iaully jiulgiiieiits. Jt'irrIigr.»'.<nm' v. Iionrrl of llmllh,
24 i'r. 594. A mrimlnmus will not be allowed to compel the per
forinance, by towiisbip oﬂicers, ofdiiiies respecting the division
of townsiiip property and debts between an old and a newly
created township, imposed by the provisions of a local and
special act creating such township, such act being unconstitu

1-aiim R. R. Co, 12 I'r. 250, 18 l'r. 490. 16 l'r. S2. A return to an
alternative writ commaiiding the respondents toextend ti brick
sewer in it cerlaiu manner, will not be quashed where it shows
siilistaiitial diiiiculties in the construction of the sewer, ade
quate relief provided for by anoilier sewer and a want oi" funds

or authority to raise them.

jllrrl-er Frwrliollim-3 v. }*¢,m,5y(.

Ga!lunn- v. Jtrsery ('i!y, I6 Vr. 465.

Ifa reiurii to an alternative writ be manifestly false, frivolous,
or calculated to embarrass or delay the remedy sought, it will
be quasiied in a summary way, on motion, and a peremptory
writ awarded. 10. A peremptory writ, issued to enforce a

_‘_____ _.__-v-=-aw-I Y ? g-r~_v-""-"
.-a

-wt~iii

-'

‘Z001

MANDAMUS.

L
.-_¢-_.@_.

i
.

3. Provided a_lu:a_i/s, ii‘ any damages shall be recovered, by virttte of this
act, against any sttch person or persons, making sttcli return to such writ
as aforesaid, he or they shall not be liable to be stied in any other action
or suit, for the making stich retttrn.
4:. That it shall and may be lawl'ul to and i'or the said supreme court to
allow to such person or persons respectively, to whom any writ of inatt
damus shall be directed, or to the person or persons who shall sue or

.—~¢__->-Q‘.

-Q-cg

i

If damages re
covered, a bar.

~—-— -b¢—Q-.<—~ 1-Q.;-n

Court may allow

1--.-_

time to make
return and plead.

- ‘J-.---L‘.-—

prosectite the same, such convenient time respectively to make a return,
-e‘ .-_.o-4._,».- _-_-._\;'_4

plead. reply, rejoin or demtir, as to the said cotirt shall seemjust attd
reasonable.
Supplement.
Approved March 17, 1870.

5. SEC. l. T_hat in all cases when upon any sttcli proceedings had ttpon
mandamus as mentioned in the act to which this is a. supplement,judg
inent shall be given upon a verdict, or upon a demttrrer or other issue, in
factor in la.w,joined upon any pleadings in pursuance of said act, it shall
be lawful for any party to the record in any oi‘ stich cases, who shall think
himself aggrieved by such judgment, to sue out and prosecute a writ oi
error for the purpose oi’ removing the satne, and such like proceedings
shall thereupon be had and taken, and such costs awarded as in ordinary
cases oi‘ writs of error upon judgments in personal actions.

P. L. 1870, p. 39.
Writ of error may
be sued out to
removejudgment,
&c.

Supplement.
Approved March 29, 1878.

P. Lt I878, D. 2-12.

Approved March 3, 1850.

P. 1.. 1880, p. 102

6. SEC. 1. [Amended by Sec. l3,post.j
7. St-:0. 2. [Amended by Sec. l4,post.]

Supplement.

8. SEC. i. That whenever application is tnade for a writ of mandamus

Procedure on

to require a municipal corporation to raise, by taxation, any _judg1nent

application i'or
mandamus to

against it, the court to which such application is made shall, at the request

compel municipal

of such municipal corporat.ion, upon a rule to show catise, or upon aili
davits taken on due notice, or otherwise, in such matiiier as the court shall

corporation to
raise judgment
by tax.

prescribe, ascertain and determine :
I. The total indebtedness of such municipal corporation, the time when

payable and the rate oi‘ interest payable tliereoit ;
II. The real valtte for purposes oi’ taxation oi’ the taxable property
within srch corporation ;

III. The amount required to be raised within such corporation for
necessary expenses for municipal and other purposes during the current
year ; anti
judgment and execution against a municipal corporation, will
not be quaslied unless it clearly changes or enlart.;e.-', iti a
material matter, the terms oi the alternative writ or rule abso
lute by which it was i.~t~:tietl. Brown v. Iiolttvuy, ‘.12 l'r. 279.
4, Of .s'(’l‘t'|'C!’ and ‘I‘(?[lll‘ll of wrils of um1ttlumu.s.~'l‘lie writ
should be delivered or shown to the person to whom it is
directed. Smle v. Etkinton, i V1‘. 335. It tnay be served by a
person not an oiﬁccr, although service by the latter is better.
f'0f‘gl1.!l;u ads. Slttle, ‘.5 V1". 289, 291. A return showing that the
defendant has not the power to do the act is good. .5‘/rm‘, Hot!
v. Perrinz, 5 Vr. 254, 257. ' The prosecutor ofa I!l(lIlll(!IIl-ll-\' may
demur to the return. Silverrhorn v. ll'm-wru Ii‘. R. (‘o , ~i l'r.
17:1. A return of an overseer ofthe highway that at the time
the writ vvas served on him he was not such oilicer is good.

Blair v. .Hu!lidr|_1/, 3 Ilat. 265.

A judge's return cannot be cou

tradicted by atliilavits. Bcncdicl V. }{ow1rIl, l0 Vt‘. ‘Z21. A mun
dnrnus directed to a foreigti corporation engaged in business in
this state, com tnanding the perl'0r|nant-<- oi‘ some duty growing
out oi’ that business, may be legally served ttpon any oiilcer oi‘

the company in this state upon whom lawful service could have
been made. accordzng to the ancient common law, ll" the corpo
ration were domestic. Illcrcer Frerltolders v. Pmti.~t_i/Ii»moii R.
R. 09., l3 Vr. 490. But see Secs. l4ii and 150 on page 939, ante.
Ii’ a writ is directed to one person, the original shoultl be
delivered to him : if directed to several, the original should he
delivered to one and copies ieﬂ with the others. M->rc¢:r 1-’, (1'
holders v. Pennsgtvania R. R. (b., 12 Vr. 250, l3 V1‘. 490. It the

duty commanded is incumbent upon a corporation, the writ
should be directed either to the corporation or to the select hotly
within the corporation \.\'lio.'~c ditty it is to pt-riorni the act
couttnandetl or to secure its perioiniaticc. 1h, The only
int-nits oi‘ contpelliiit: a return to a writ oi IIl(llH1l|lIHlS, or obedi
ence
is bywrit
attachment.
lb. A
must
be
madetotoitsacommand,
pt-reinptory
oil m¢|mlumu.sasreturn
well as
to the
altcrttattve. 10. \Vhert- the writ, l\!~4‘il(‘4l to enforce a judgnieiit
and execution atzaitist a municipal corporation, W1t.'~ ~4(*|‘\’(‘(I on
the tts.~zessiit's oi‘ taxes after the duties oi the as.<m~sor.~ were coin
plcted, by statute, ior any particular year. the tvrit will tioi be
quashed, but the time for return will be extended. Brown v.
Ritlttlvty, ‘.32 I'r'. ‘.379.
5. Of efnforririy ohrrlirnr-r Io writs of mrtndrtmns.-—'l‘he opera
tion of a nutmImnu.\- beiutz arrested after its service by an
arrangeiuent inade betwceti the council and the party obtain
itii; the 1/utmluums, the council will not be nitztclied Iill‘ failing
to obey the niitmlunimt. h':iliu_w.t3/ Siziti/tgs Iitsli/iziiori v. It‘ithu'u1 ,
2i l'r. 350. Service ofa rule to show cattse why a party should
tint he attached for contempt in not oheyint; ttwriiol" per
emptory nmmmnius must he proved to have been made upon
the party before the rule will be made absolute. liroten v.
Hitltti-u_i/, 24 Vr. 156. The only nieans oi" compelling a return to
ti writ oi"nutm1mnus, or obedience to its command. is by attach
‘rnent. Frecholdcrs of Jlerccr v. Pt?Il)tSy1l?tlllit'l H. 1.‘. ('o., 12 l'r.
.50.

126

2002

MANDAMUS.
IV. The highest rate of taxation capable of being imposed on such cor
poration without injury to the interests oi’ the creditors of the corporation

Limilationon

whose claims are not yet due. (a)
9. Sec. 2. That it shall not he lawful to require any municipal corpora

"-m°“"‘"“““"‘Y tion by mandamus to raise for any such judgment, in any one year, more

:,:,',““'°dl°be
'

than such sum as, in addition to the amount found to be required for
necessary expenses as aforesaid, will be raised in such municipal corpora

tion by imposing the highest rate of taxation as determined in the manner
aforesaid, and any sum orde1'ed to be raised by taxation shall be included
in the next annual tax levy for such municipal corporation.

Sumsoordered
""”°"‘°°°P*““

10. SEC. 3. That the sum so ordered to be raised may be required to be
paid into said court, and may be distributed by said court pro rata among

:,'::,‘,’,,f,',),‘,',':,,a:‘,i,,

creditors having judgments against said corporations, and who, during a

rain.

time to be ﬁxed by the court, shall apply to the court and make due proof

oi‘ their judgments as required by said court.

Ifc1nim= noldls

11. Sac. 4. That if the sum so ordered to be raised shall not discharge

°l“"g"““"“‘"'

all the claims so approved, the court shall have the power to make the same

,,,,,:l,',s,,?::,,e
da
‘b

determination
.
.
ill
. the next year, and thereon to issue
a mandamus
_
in
. the

year.

same manner as is above provided, and so afterwards until the sums so

raised shall discharge the judgments so proved.
Wh"@°""PP"12. Si-:0. 5. That after one application is made fora mandamus against

a municipal corporation to require it to raise by taxation any judgment
be ;,,,',‘_.,,,,,,,,,,e,,‘

against it, all subsequent applications, while the ﬁrst is pending under this

wilhit.

act, shall be consolidated with the first, and shall be treated and considered
as made at one and the same time and be proceeded with in only one pro
ceeding, and one writ of mandamus alone shall issue upon all the applica
tions on which the court shall determine a. writ should issue.
Amendatory act.

P. L. 1&8], p. 72.

Approved March 3, 1881.

13. SEO. 1. That the ﬁrst section of the act entitled “A further supple
ment to an act entitled ‘ An act f'or the better regulation of proceedings
upon writs oi mandamus,’ passed December second, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-four,” which said supplement was approved March
twenty-ninth, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-eight [see Sec. 6 v
ante], be and the same is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
Wh@=""°f"'°'
[That where an application has heretofore been made, or shall hereafter
be made, for a writ of alternative or peremptory mandamus, or where a
ch!"-gpQfr|_|]e1o

rule to show cause why such writ should not be issued has heretofore been

show <=auwobtained, or shall hereafter be obtained, the said writ being desired for the
purpose of compelling any oiﬁeer or officers of this state, or of any county,
township, or school district in this state, or the mayor and common coun

cil, or the mayor and board of aldermen, or any oiiicer or oiiiccrs oi‘ any
city or other municipal corporation of this state, to perform a duty or
make a payment required by law, and such writ has been or shall be
denied. or such rule has been or shall be discharged, by the supreme court
of judicature of this state, and such denial of said writ, or such discharge

of said rulc is the legal consequence necessarily resulting from a determi
nation hy said court of the question oi’ the constitutionality or unconstitu
tionality of any statute of this state, that being the main question brought
before the court for a<ljudi<-ation and the principal ground oi‘ the litigation
between the parties, it shall be lawful for the relator or relators, at any
time within one year next after the (late of entry of the rule oi" ;~:aid court
denying said writ, or discharging said rule to show cause, to sue out and

prosecute a writ of error to remove the proceedings into the court of errors
and appeals, which court shall thereupon review the said proceedings and
(ft) Whena municipal corporation, havingagenerai power to
levy luxes to pay its debts, entersintoaeoniraci, lhe iegislnture cannot la "e away or substantially impair such taxing
power so far as relates In such coniracls. Rlrluvny v. jifumlay,
15 V1‘. li95.nﬂ1rrning -S’. (1., H Vr. 338. In such case, if lhe c0rporullon refuses lo exert its taxing power in favor of such cnnirnctor,a 1ru1mIanw.r to compel such action isn right which
cannot he taken away or impaired by subsequent legislation.

I0. The city of Rahway, having this power to tax, issued cer
lain bonds. A holder of some ofsuch obligations proceeded
under the ac! M1878, alter ohiainingjudgment, to serve a copy
of his execution on the assessors of the city, who refusing to
assess the sums so due,1he judgment creditor applied fora
mumlrnmu. Hrlrl, lllﬂi he was entitled to such W rit, the act of
I880, restricting the. use and effect of the writ of mandamus,
being held to be unconstitutional. I0.

.'

‘

_i~}- "'

MARRIAGES, BIRTHS AND DEATHS.

,

2003

the action of the supreme court thereon, and IIlitl\'€ determination in refer

ence thereto.]
14. Si-:0. 2. That the second section of the said supplementary act [see
Sec. 7. ante] be and the same is hereby amended so as to read as follows :
[That the said writ of error shall he made returnable forthwith, and “’I'"<>l'@rr<>l' 10 bs
returnable
upon return thereof said court of errors and appeals shall require an imme made
forthwith.
diate and speedy assignment of errors and joinder in error, and upon such
short notice as may by the court last aforesaid be directed, shall hear and llearlna

determine the cause during the term to or in which said writ of error is
returnable, if possible so to do without necessitating the postponement of
other business of said term to a subsequent term; and on reversal the

supreme court shall l3:tl\'c action accordingi_\'.]

Supplement.
Approved March 19, 1895.

I’. L. 1895. p. 339.

15. SEC. 1. That in all proceedings by mandamus, to enforce the collec- Illegnlity oftax
or appropriation

tion

or

payment

of a

tax

or appropriation, it shall and may he lawful to may he pleaded in

mandamus pro
plead and show as a defense that such tax or appropriation is in whole or c,_.ed,,,g,,_

in part illegal.
0..

.Q-v_0—g ’o .‘-4.-¢-._.i.

Marriages, Births and Deaths.
\\’ithln what degrees In{\|'|'l£1l,'t'\' are prohibited.

In absence of clerk or registrar, judge of court or justice oi’

if

peace may issue permit for ourial. Copy of permit trans

Amended by sections 6 and 7.

mitted to whom.
Proceedings in case bodies are bought into this state for
burial.

Amended by section 8.
Penalty for marrying minors without consent of parent or
guardian.
Amended by section 9.
Amended by section 7.
\Vho authorized to solernnize marriages.
Regulatl-m.~t --oncerniug the marriage of minors.
Record and return oi‘ marriage of minors.

Proceedings in case oi‘ removal of bodies i‘rom this state.

{on
e-~
éiﬂ
L‘O
ii

5
.-4-.

Certiﬁcates of marriages, births and deaths to be alpha

chancellors may solemnize marriages.
Ii. Certitic-ate oi marriage to be transmitted to proper oﬂicer.
What Ocrtiﬁt-ate shall set forth.

betically arranged by superintendent of bureau of vital
statistics

Duty oi‘ assessors and

. State bureanof vital statistics to prepare blank forms of
certiﬁcates, &c. Duties of assessors, registrars and clerks.
'35. Penalties, how and by whom recovered.

clerks.
13. Phy~=icians to furnish l1l'ltl9l‘t:ll{0l‘ with certificate ofdeath.
\\'l1atcertiticateshail -et forth.

2"». Repeaier.
27. Assessors, clerks and registrars to transmit certiﬁcates to
bureau of vital statistics. Record to he kept in certain

12. (Jertiticate Of birth to be ll'8ll*lillil.t‘il to the proper officer.

14. Certiﬁcates oi‘ marriages and births to he transmitted to

cities.

registrars. clerks or 8‘588SSOl'\'.
15. Certiﬁcate of death to be delivered to registrars, clerks or
assessors. Permit for burial to be issued.

I. Who may not marry.
. '

.

1:. s. 376, :1.
P. L. 1848, p. 155.
"
lﬁfl, .435.

.

An act 0OI1C6I'I11l1g' marriages, births and deaths.
,

j-Q-—

'.--_I
J-as

Keepers ofcemeteries to keep record of interinnnts.
. lindertakers to transmit burial certiﬁcates to assessors.
Penalty for making false certiﬁcates.
Amended by section ‘.37.

:I¢".°*'=$.*"'!.°’~?'-“"
10. Justices ot‘ the supreme con rt, the chancellor and vice

Whatcertiticate shall set forth.

_

0

'

.'.
ltevision—Approved
'
March 27, 1874.
v

1. That no man or woman shall mtcrtnar1'_y within the degrees hereaiter

~~

nrlta,

“
H‘
-l-"\i'.2,
lsrcy
1,;-l(',3'

“ 1.~u'-.i,

129.
."£0

.

:7’.

named, that is to say :(a)
(fl) A marriage between a man and woman related within the
degrees prohibited by law is not void. but voidable, and until
dissolved by a court oi‘ competent jurisdiction must, in all coi

lnteral proceedings, be treated as valid.
Sir":/1. 485.

Boylrm v. Dr Inzcr, 18

‘PARTITION.

2420

Partition.
I.

II.

VII.

APPOIN’I'1i1£ENT OF COMMIS"s‘IONERS.

1. Application for partition. Commissioners. Notice.
2. Appointment oi’ commissioners.
PROCEEDINGS OF COMLHSSIONERS.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

F-.$ =$ 5?i?§ Judgments, &c., to be liens only on shares allotted to debtor.
Part of land may be divided and residue sold.
. VVith respect to land devised by parent.
Chancery may decree sale of lands.

I

\

Report of sales may be made at special term.
. Remedy ifjudge shall die or go out of oﬂice.

3. Survey and division into lots.
4. Shares numbered and described.
6. Allotment, how made. Certiﬁcate.

Defects in form not to invalidate partitions or sales.
Limitation on writ of error or ccrtiorari.

6. Witnesses may be examined.
'7. Proceedings to be recorded.
8. Justice's fees.

Rights of other parties saved.
VIII.

9. Expenses apportioned. Commissioners‘ deed.
111.

PARTITION IN PREROGATIVE
COURT.

OR ORPHANSP

10. In case the owners are minors, or land in several counties.
11. Notice, to whom given.
12. Map a11d report of commissioners recorded.

18. Duty of clerk or register.
14. Costs assessed and paid.
15. Provision in case of waste.

FEES.

. Fees to Judge, clerk, &c.
. Commissions on sales.

I X. SUPPLELIENTS.
Partitions and sales heretofore confirmed declared valid.
Liens of creditors not aifected by partition of premises.
. How lien on undivided interest is affected by partition.

Creditors having liens on undivided interest may be made
parties to proceedings.

IV. SALE YVHEN PARTITION CANNOT BE MADE
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

'

. When court may order bill amended to make lien creditor
a party to proceedings.
.
Proceeds of sale of certain interests to be paid into court.
Proceedings in case parties in interest apply to court for

When land to be sold.
Report of sale.

If approved, deeds made.
monies claimed.
Commissioners’ oath.
Court to hear prootis, &c., and make order.

When vacancies supplied.
Distribution oi‘ monies to creditors, how made.
Clerk or other oﬂlcer to procure satisfaction of claims.

21. Survivors may make deed.

22. Proceeds oi’ sale paid over.

\Vhen invested.
. Proceedings not to affect other parties.

23. Guardian to give bond.
24. Commissioners’ receipts

by surrogate.

'

and discharges may be recorded

‘

PROCEEDINGS WITH RESPECT TO REMAINDEBS,
REVERSIONS AND EXPECTANCIEQ.

V.

25 . Partition made though lands limited over.
26. \Vhen sale may be made.
27. Proceeds of sale, how invested.

Conveyances to be recorded a11d to bar persons interested.
Proceedlﬂlﬁ Pending not invalidated by act.
Partition of lands of parties who desire to enjoy their shares
in common.
. Amended by section 62.

Court may order inchoate estates of dower to be sold. &c.
Disposition of proceeds oi’ sale when inchoate estates of
dower are sold.
Executor, &c., of will having power to sell lands may main
tain action for partition.

28. Final disposition of the fund.
29. Punishment for embezzlement.

Payment to Judgment creditors out of distributive shares,

30. Partition on sale by consent of tenant of particular estate.

when ordered by court.

&ie of lands limited over may be made in partition pro
VI.

PROCEEDINGS WHERE SOME OF THE O\VNEBS
ARE UNKNOVVN, OR THE RPEIDENCE OF
SOME OF THEM IS UNKNO\VN.

31. Proceedings in case some of theltenants are unknown.

82 . Proceedings to be according to practice oi’ court.
33. Chancellor to make rules.
34. If it is not known whether a party is living, or his residence

ceedings.
. Proceeds of sale, how invested.

. Proceeds of sale may be paid over to trustee to whom share
mayl have been devised in trust. Security to be given by
trustee.

69 . Repealer.
70 . Partition where any of interested parties are presumed to be
dead.

is unknown.

85. Custody and control of bonds.
R. S. 101.
P. L. 1853, p. 34.
“

1&i5, p. 503.

“

1858, p. 104,
i2i. 478.

“
“
“
“
"

1861, p. 19,
318, 434.
1883, p. 482.
1864, p. 672.
1865, p. 909.
1866, p. 418.

"

1875, p. ea.

“

lt»"76, p. 99.

Application for
ariilion.

s. 101, Q 1.
(ai Not necessa
_

I. Appointment of commissioners by a justice or judge.
An act for the more easy partition of lands held by coparceners,
joint tenants and tenants in common.
Revision-Approved March 27, 1874.

1. Tiiat any person being a coparccner, joint tenant or tenant in com
mon (a) in any tracts of land within this state, may apply to anyjustice
for the ap plimnt to show that he is a tenant

in common oi the ee, or even of the freehold. Dimne-nt. v. Lore,
2 i'r. 220. If he be tenant in common oi an estate for ears with
another, seized in fee. the orphans’ court hasjurisd ction, and

no certiorari will lie to review its proceedings. Ib. A deed in
the nature of a mortgage, given by a tenant in common leaves
in him an estate which entities him to appl '. Kline v. Alo

Guckien, 9 C’. E. Gr. 411. The legislature inten ed to apply the

PARTITION.

2421

of the supreme court (a) or judge of any circuit court or court of common
pleas of the county wherein such lands may lie, for a partition of such
tract or tracts of land; whereupon the said justice orjudge shall ascertain
the number of equal shares or parts in which such tract or tracts were or
at the time of such application, are held by the original coparceners, joint
tenants, or tenants iu common, and shall nominate three persons not Nomimﬂonof
interested in the said land,(b) as commissioners, to make partition of such °°“‘“““"°“°"*
tract or tracts into as many parts or shares as the same was originally

held;(c) and the said justice or judge shall thereupon order an advei'tise- N°"°°
ment to be inserted in one of the public newspapers of this state, and in

such other public newspapers or places as the said justice orjudge shall
direct, for four weeks successively, at least once in each week, to the

following or like effect, he or they making such alterations or additions as
the nature of the case may require:
By—i,justice of the supreme court of New Jersey, or judge of the
circuit court or the court of common pleas of the county of L oi.

Notice is hereby given, that on application tome by
who claims an undivided
part of all that tract of land (giving a

description of the tract or tracts intended to be divided), I have nominated
A. B., C. D. and E. F., commissioners to divide the said tract (or tracts) of
equal shares or parts; and unless proper objections are
land into
, on the -i day of-—— next (which is to be
stated to me at
at least thirty days from the date of the notice), the said A. 13., C. D. and
E. F. will then be appointed commissioners to make partition of the said
land, pursuant to an act entitled “ An act for the more eas_v partition of
lands held by coparceners, joint tenants and tenants in common. ” Given
under my hand. this -—-—- day of —--—.
2. That if no objections are made before the said justice or judge, on the

day appointed by him for that purpose, to the persons nominated as com
missioners, then the said justice or judge shall, in writing, under his hand
and seal, appoint the persons so nominated to be commissioners to divide
the said land, pursuant to the directions prescribed in this act; and the
said justice or judge shall, in the said writing, describe the tract or tracts

Appointment of
comm inloners.
Ib., Q 2.

Tracts described.

so to be divided, and direct the number of parts or shares into which the

same is to be allotted; but if objections are made to the persons nominated
as commissioners, or any of them, the said justice or judge shall then pro
more easy partition oi‘ lsnds by commissioners to all such
(slates-,as iveie [hen subject In

ariilion at coinmon inw and

underihe smiuis oi‘ 8| Hm. I'll ., r. I, and as l)r*i\N0(-in i1llll.ICll
persons or l€l\llIi.!.BS were coinpeilnlalv lo mnke pariiiion by
wrii. under the 32 Hru V!Il., r. B,and subjeci ioihv anine ri-siric
lions. Under the statutes oi‘ Si and B2 Hm. i'IlI., partition
could be compelled between liiose wiio held as join! wu
lnls or tenants in common, of eslnles of inheriiance in
their own right, or in right of their wives, and those who held
as ienanls in common or as join! ieiiaiits for Iii‘:-, or years; or

where one had an estate for ii‘e or years,auil suoiher oi‘ lice
hold,or inheriiance, or a tenancy by the curios
Sinwu v.
Bnd£r|,l Gr. ‘Z71. Pemonsin remainder, wheiheri ie remainder
be contingent or V(!§lE(l,llll| who are iiol at ihe time nfsuingoui.

the writ n actual iossessiou, or enifiled lo immodiaie posses
siou In severaiiy a er pariiiion made, muiioi. be pariies io ilie
writ or panilioii. in sucii case ihcjudges oi‘ ihe coinnion plcnn
have no authority lo make an orvier oi‘ sale, nor to approve
and conﬁrm ii.,aiid the C0il'li\1l$‘\l(iIlFI'S have no auihoriiy to
make sale or conveyance. lb. Burmuplir v Dunlrip, l (1‘i'.2M.
See l'rmn;; v. Rulhlnuir. I 0 B. Gr. 214,226
Inf;-u,.'si~c. 25,1! srq.

No owners can be parties but such as are entitled io ihe pres
ent pu\'il’52‘iUi| of their shares The design of
arlilion is,
ihnt owners, who be-foie enjoyed in coiiiinoii, sha i each have
iiiissessiou of his share in severally. lb. So,\viiere lfaiher
devised io his ihree sons certain iunds, as ieiianis lnconimoii
during iln-ir nuiural lives,l\nd alier lhedealh of eiiherof iheni,
his share io go lo his lawfiil ls-sue; and ii‘ any oi‘ his said sons
should die ivlihoui. leaving li'\\\'i'lIl issue, his share to go to iiie

i~urvivm-s orihc-in; or ifany ofiin-ni llﬁil decense-ii, their lawful
Issue lo have ilie share iiial wouiii have gone lo their fhiher, ii‘

living.

He iii, iliai. no partition could he made among the sons,

except of their |ii-eseni. interest or esiaie in lln-laiids.

Ruin, 2 Hui. ('Ii. 1-‘>6.

Rvrivlv.

A grantee or ihe righi to dig ores. flom

one tenant in coiniiion,caiinoi.cail for n pariiiiou. Bi:sIm|f'1‘I|iM

Objections.

dower. Laird v. Wilson, Pm. ‘Q80. '287. The right of a widow
in dower does not give her an esiaie or make hera
rticular
ienani, whose consent lo a partition is
uired.
Iurhzr v.
llmnion, 8 l‘ E. hr. i'l3. A parliiion oi lands miiiainln
niineral depo<il:4 cannot be ordered, if the locaiion, extent an

value orsuch depoanscanuoi. he ascertained. Enable v. Humble,
17 Slew. 454.
»
£8 The jiistiua or judges ought to require the applicant to
p
uce such docunieiilar an other evidence, as will at least
]iI'l7N(l ﬂu-ir esiabiisii ihe act oi‘ a co-ienancy. Unless ihat is
done, no nomiiniiion ouglii. io be made; and ifou the day ﬁxed
i'nr appointing ilie coiniiiiasioiieis, or at any time before lhe

coniniissioiieni are ﬂp|)0llll9(l,0b]t‘(‘llUl1§ﬂI19illB(l9,llIld ii appear
ihat there is I possessioii adverse lo the up >iicani. or a real dis
puie about his lllle io an undivided purl o the premises. no no
poinliiieiitshouiii bennide, or pariition ordered ; but iheappiica
iion should be dismissed, and ihe pariies leii lo their legal
remedies
Vllli RI])C'|' v. Bndim, 2 Gr. I82. The application, ii.

seems, need uoi be made in wriiing. limmdy v. Annslrmiy,
Aprii. 693,695. ii is the lluiy ofihsjusilce lo ascerlaln thalam
leinuicy exi:-ils,aiid lo determine the number ofequai shares,ii.i
which the lands were held by the oriilrinal coparceners,_1oini.
tenants or lenanis iu c0nimou- bui ii. s no pari of his dui io

deiei-mine who are the ownersoil thedii'i'ereiiisharesat ihei me
oi‘ the up licalion. lb. Thai. there are inciiinbrauces on the
|)R!I'lil°i9§ s no objection ion pariiiion. Loni v. llulmts, 2 C. E.
Gr. i-is, 150
Nor ihai there was a \‘i'l bai agreement by one co
ienaui wiili anothenlhai. the iornier would convey to ihe iaiier

his interest in the preniisea. 1'0/Illlliil-K v. Hudson,-l ('. E. Gr.
63. There can be no division where the ancestor has given or
advanced lo his children in his lifetime, any pari of his lands or
tenements. Slur: v. Rickey, 3 Hui. 50.
(II) when nppilcaiioii is made to ihree judges, they are to
ascertain ilie number oi‘ share.-\, io nominate comniissionen, lo
make an order direcliiig an advertisement ihereof, to up
int

(mm Ch. v. (‘i,niIiI,4 I’. I}. Gr. 394. A jusiice oflhesiipieiiiecourt
has pnivcr and lllli|l0|'li_V, under the ﬂ(‘l of I789, to appoiiii. coin

the comrniaiouers, io order the proceedings to be iecorde . If
done by a less number than ihree, the proceedings will be

niiusioiiers io niake parliiioii of lands which have descended

erroneous.
I/an Ripe: v. Bn-<lrm,2 (Ir. I32.
(c) Coniniissloners appointed by jugges ofa court, cannot be
also authorized in lhe same (_‘0lllllll-' on, i0 subdivide a part
among the heirs of one of the original co-tenanis. Orum v.

lo lllll|P\i and ii-niales under llie former sialuie of descent:
passed in 17:0, noiwlihsianriing each ninie is enifiled lo two
shares, and each feinaie in one shaiv only. by the iirovisionii of
[hm act, Iﬁumily v. .»<irni.\IrIniy/,§'pni. 693. Qiuri/-\\'h9iher

partition may be inane among heirs, before the 8»5l§iil1i9lll of

Young, 3 Hui. M.

Bui. see Oolu v. Cola, 2 Bear. 885.

PARTITION.

2422

ceed to hear and determine such objections, (a) and in case he ﬁnd them
well founded, to appoint under his hand and seal, other ﬁt and disinter
ested persons in the room of those he may think proper to remove.
II. Proceedings of commissioners.
Survey and divi
sion into lots.
Ib., I 8.

When part is con
troveried.

3. That the said commissioners having taken the oath or affirmation hereinafter prescribed, shall cause a survey to be made, in their presence, of the
tract or tracts to be divided, and shall then proceed to divide (b)-the same
into the number of parts or shares directed by the saidjustice orjudge in
the writing containing their appointment; each part or share to contain
one or more lots, as the commissioners may think proper, they having due
regard in the partition to the situatiou.quantity, quality and advantages
of each part or share, so that they tnay be equal in value as nearly as may
be;(c) and if the bounds of any tract or tracts so to be divided, shall be
controverted, the commissioners are hereby directed, if such controverted
part is valuable, to separate the same from the tmcontroverted part, and
to make partition of the tract or tracts, in such manner that a proportion
of the controverted part may be allotted to each share, as well as a propor

Surveyor and
chain-bearers to
be sworn.

Shares numbered
and described.

Ib., Q4.

tion of the uncoutroverted part; and the said commissioners, previous to
the said survey, shall administer an oath or affirmation to the surveyor and
chain-bearers, that they will well and truly perform their respective duties,
honestly and impartially; which oath or aﬂlrmation any one of the said
commissioners is hereby empowered to administer.
4. That the said commissioners shall number the several parts or shares
by them laid off, from number one, progressively, and shall, in the same
manner, number each lot in the several shares, if the same contain more
than one lot, and shall make a true ﬁeld-book, specifying the bounds and
numbers of each lot, and also a map or maps of the tract or tracts, on;
which the several shares or lots shall be laid down and numbered, and

shall keep an exact and particular account of their time expended in the
execution of the duties of this act, and of the money due for the same, and
also of all expenses accrued for surveying or otherwise, agreeably to the
Notice of allot
ment advertised.

directions of this act; and the said commissioners shall thereupon give

notice, by advertisement in manner aforesaid, for three weeks successively,
that on a certain day by them named, not less than one month from the
date of such notiﬁcation, attendance will be given at a place therein named,

Allotment, how
made.
Ib., Q 5.

and an allotment, by ballot, take place, of the several parts or shares of
the tract or tracts therein described, to the original coparceners, joint
tenants or tenants in common, their heirs or assigns.
5. That on application made to the said justice orjudge by one of the
parties to the partition intended to be made, the said justice or judge shall
attend at the time and place speciﬁed in the advertisement of the commis
sioners, and shall, with the assistance of the said commissioners, proceed to
allot the several parts or shares of the tract or tracts intended to be divided,
in the manner hereinafter desct-ibed;(d) but if no application shall be.
made to the said justice orjudge for his attendance, then the said commis
sioners shall, on the day appointed for that purpose, proceed, in a public

in) if an objection be mule to s person nominated as com
m ssioncr, I Illllal be beard and determined judicially by the
appointing power before appointing either the person objected

to or any substitute in his place. Ormn v. Younﬂ, 3Har. M.
The mere making of nn objection is not suiﬂclenl to set aside
an appointment if such 0l'1jQCl|Oll be not well founded. 0»-am
V. Young, 3 Hui". 58.

(Ii; The legislature intended to tzive power to set oﬂ‘ shares by
meles and bound-4. and the judges or commissioners utnnol

exercise Jnr1sdh'llA]|| or hold

lea ofany other subject ihnn the

ﬂXiiIi{ oi‘ lines for partition.
‘o )OW9l‘ is given to them by the
act beyond this: it is the rielegal on nfa special authority, that
must be tnken strictly, and cannot be enlarged by construction
or cxiendt-d over any oihersubject. Van Rrplr v. B!I‘liII!|,2 I’-‘r.
132. A division an-I report of cnnimissioiiers may be set t-isidt-,
if lands not oflhe t.-mite be set nﬂ‘ to one oi’ the in-irs. Rmlr v.

,'|lIf([!_1 1,] lim-Impnm, 2 South. ‘Iii. |l"lI]lI‘0\’('ll'lt'lll.~l being part
of the esixile, no allowance cnn in-\ made by the rulministrnlors
or b the wnimlxsinnc-r< in tlivitiinzihe land, luthept-|-son who
mad); ihmn, unless by ii'.Z!'l'('il)\'lll ofnll ilit-heirs: and an m;ree
ment between the heirs to divide the esuite equally, and pro

viding that nothing in the agreement shall bur or release any
clnitn oi‘ either oi’ the lll‘ll'3i>l_i;lllllsl. the 1-state, will not bar the
claim of the heir who has made the iinprm'cnien|~", or prevent.
him from recovering lllt‘i|' value from the 0-tnte. .\'m|lIt v. Snulh,
1 .l)uIrh. 7-08.
, (ri Each party must have his share in value, which is nil that
is required. ,BrV:I|/tjllltl v. ii’i1Imm.v, i Gr. L'!t. flit. Under cer
tain t-in-ttttistniices, to nlnke the value of the several shar--Q
equal. one party ni-.t_v he re nlred in pay mom»_vnn his sltare to

those who receive ashareu less value. lb. I-Iquui partition oi’
each parcel anion all the owners is not l'9(|lliI'H|. And upnrii
tiou so ntnde, wit out necessu_\-,a|id practical!

destructive of

the value of the mrcel vlivitlt~<i_ will he B9ll4‘4l e.

Illlllllnfnrk

v. (‘:'m|lt'i':’y;I:I, ii . E‘. Gr. 1.39. It is nni,ofit~=eli‘,t~uii*icient to self
aside a partition, that the Cﬁllilillssitinéri unve In one nf the
tenants nearly the whole ofthe must valuable part oi‘ the tract.
lluy v. I-.‘\nlI,4 U. E. In-. 1:L'i.

ul) The allotment of the shares must he in the names oflhe
original co-u-nants.bul. ii‘um= he tit-all or have aiiened his share,
the lwli‘ or mirchasor will he 1-ntfiled to the sitnrvsllotled to

such original co-tenant.

bhumiy v. Amt>1mny,.~tp¢n. 69.), 695.

PARTITION.

2423

manner, to number as many tickets as there are shares of land marked on
the map, which shall be put in a box, and the names of the original
coparceners, joint tenants or tenants in common shall be put, in separate

tickets, into another box, when a person, appointed by the said justice,
judge or commissioners, shall proceed to draw a ticket of the names, and
then a ticket of the numbers, and so proceed until all the tickets are drawn,
and the share on the map bearing the number of the ticket drawn next
after drawing the ticket with the name, shall be the separate and divided
share of that original coparcener, joint tenant or tenant in common, his
or her heirs or assigns, in the land so divided; of which balloting the said
justice or judge or commissioners shall make a full and ample certiﬁcate,
under his or their hands and seals, specifying particularly the time, place
and manner of balloting, and the allotment of the shares.
6. That the said justice or judge and the said commissioners are hereby
authorized, as the case may require, to issue his or their precept or pre
cepts, under his or their hands and seals, commanding such person or
persons who are able to give any necessary information, to come before
him or them, when and where he or they may direct, to testify, by an oath
or atiirmation, concerning such acts, matters or things as may be necessary
for the said justice or judge or commissioners to investigate in the execu
tion of the trust, duties and service required of them by this act, and to
bring with them all such patents, surveys, maps. records, deeds or other
writings as may be necessary to be examined by the said justice,judge or
eomnnssioners.
7. That the said commissioners shall transmit the writing containing
their appointment and their oath or affirmation of oﬂice, properly certiﬁed
by the person administering the same, and the map and ﬁeld-book, together
with the said certiﬁcate of allotment, and also their accounts, to the justice
or judge from whom they received their appointment, or in case of his
death, resignation or removal, then to any other justice or judge of the
same court, who, after inspecting the same, shall order the said instruments,
excepting the account of expenses, to he recorded (a) in the clerk’s oﬁice of
the supreme court, or in the clerk’s oﬂice of the county in which the lands
lie, which shall be good evidence of such partition; and which partition
shall be as valid and effectual in law to divide and separate the said lands
as if the same had been made on writs of partition, according to the course
of the common law. (b)
8. That said justice or judge shall be allowed for the services herein
before required of him, at the rate of three dollars a day while employed in
the said business.
9. That after the said justice or judge shall have ascertained the whole
expense of such partition (c), he shall divide the same among the several
parts or shares, which shall be paid by the persons to whom such shares
were allotted, their heirs or assigns, within four weeks after the same shall
be ascertained, or in default of payment of such expense, the said justice
or judge shall direct a sale to be made by the commissioners of so much of
those parts or shares deﬁcient in paying the expense as will be suﬁicient
to pay their respective proportions thereof, together with the expense
accruing on such sale, and shall direct the same to be sold by the said
commissioners, at public auction, to the highest bidder; and the said com

missioners’ deed to the purchaser shall pass as good a title for the separate
enjoyment of the same as if all the owners and claimants of shares of the
entire tract divided had joined therein.
(nj Ifby the death, resl

ation or removal ofone or more of

Certiﬁcate.

Witnesses may be

examined.
1b., Q 6.

Proceedings to be
recorded.
1b., Q 7.

Justice‘s fees.
Ih., I 8.

Expenses appor
tloned.
Ib., I 9.

Sale to pay ex
penses.

Commissioners‘
deed.

(Ii) Where a ersou seized in fee ofpremises, by mistake sup

the Judges, since the appo ntment of the commissioners. in con

poses that he

sequence of which it becomes necessary to associate others to
act with those remaining, the reason of such change ought to
appear on the proceedings, either in the report made by the
oornmisslonen, or b the order directing the same to here

a plies to the orphans‘ court, so stating in his petition, and on
h s application a partition is had, u share set oifby such pro
ceedings may be recovered by him from a person who bona /idr.
purchased it from one ofthe alleged tenantslncommou. Dm,

corded.

Rirhmun v. Bnldtvm, i Zdh. 395.

The order or recording the proceedings is the life

xiving act, und ought to be made, and appear to have been so

s seized as tenant in common \\'ith others, and

S. (‘., i Slnclr. 391.

(1')for
Costs
and expenses
ofidefendants
in the proceedln
at
law
partition
w ii he allowed
out of proceeds
oi‘ sale, wisere

made. by the olﬂcent pointed out by the statute. Hm R:
v.
Brrrlmi, 2 Gr. 132 Failure to record the appointment 0 com

such proceedings, being authorized by statute, are arrested in

missioners, will not invalidate the proceedings; it is nmere

glriler to more complete equity.

duty on the part of the clerk.

Ormn v. Young, I

Hull v. Ptdc0ck,8 0'. E. Gr.

2424

PARTITION.

III.
If owners are
minom. or land in
several counties.
Ib., Q 10.
P. L. 1875, p. 94, Q 1.

Partition in prerogative or orphans’ court.

10. That when two or more persons shall hold real estate as coparceners,
joint; tenants or tenants in common, any one or more of whom are minors
under the age of twenty-one years, it shall and may be lawful for the
orphans’ court of the county in which such real estate may be, (a) or for
the prerogative court, when such real estate is situate in two or more
counties, (b) upon application (0) made by one or more of said coparceners,
joint tenants or tenants in common, or by any person duly authorized in
their behalf, or claiming under them or any of them, to order and direct a.
division of such real estate to be made between the said owners, in such

Record.

Notice, to whom
given.
Ib., Q ll.

Map and report of
commissioners
recorded.
P. L. 1876, p. 99, Q1.

Duty of clerk or
register.
Ib., Q 2.

Costs assessed and
paid.

R. s. 101, 412.

Distmined for.

shares and proportions as they may be entitled to by law; the metes and
bounds of each share to be ascertained by three disinterested commis
sioners to be appointed by the court, whose report, made in writing under
their hands, to [any] term of the said court after such division shall be
made and approved by the said court, shall be conclusive to all parties
concerned; and a copy of the appointment of said commissioners, together
with their report, shall be recorded in a book to be kept for that purpose
in the oiﬁce of the clerk of said court, and copies thereof, duly certiﬁed
under the seal oi‘ said court, shall be evidence in all courts of law or equity.
11. That notice of application to the prerogative court or orphans’ court
for the partition of any real estate shall be served upon all the joint
tenants, coparceners or tenants in common interested therein, who shall
not have joined in such application, and upon the guardian or guardians
(if any there be) of such as are minors, at least four weeks bei'ore the time
of making such application, or be published for the like space of time in
one oi‘ the newspapers oi‘ this state circulated in the neighborhood of the
said real estate; and no order for partition shall be made upon such
application until satisfactory proof be made to the court of the service or
publication of such notice as aforesaid.
12. That where partition shall be made by commissioners, to be ap
pointed by the prerogative court, the court of chancery, or the orphans’
court of any county, it shall be lawful for the court making such appoint
ment to order a certiﬁed copy of the report of such commissioners, with
map annexed, if any there be, to be recorded by the clerk or clerks, or
when there is or may be a register or registers of deeds provided by law,
then with the register or registers of the county or counties in which said
land or lands so ordered or directed to be partitioned shall lie, whereupon
it shall be the duty of such commissioners to cause the same to be recorded
accordingly at the cost and expense of the parties interested in said lands.
13. That upon ﬁling such copy of the report and maps, if any there be,
and of said order, with such clerk or clerks, register or registers, it shall
be his or their duty to record the same in the proper book as a deed ; and
that the papers required by the seventh section, and preceding section of
this act to be recorded, shall be recorded by such clerk or clerks in the
proper book, as a deed, and not elsewhere.

14. That the necessary costs and expenses which shall arise under an
order of the prerogative court or orphans‘ court in any of the cases afore
said, shall be assessed by the said court upon each share, in proportion to
the value divided to him or her, and may be recovered by a warrant from
the said court, directing distress and sale to be made of so much timber,
wood or herbage as may be found on the part divided to him or her, or of
other property belonging to such owner as will be sufficient to pay the
costs and expenses aforesaid, and costs of such distress and sale.

(n) The orphuns‘ court has no authority to appoint commis
sioners to make division of lands held hetween the heirs ofa
tenant In common and the person who had been the termntln
common with their ancestor. Sims v. Purim-, 4 Hut. 2-11
(b) A general partition oflauds ofa decedent. lying in two or
more counties, cannot be made by commissioners appointed by
the orphans‘ courts oi’ those counties, although they be the
same persons. They must divide the land in each county

among all the heirs.

The surrogate-general isthe pro

pointing power if the partition ls to he general.
v. Kelly/,1 Jlru-. 517.

Dr 1| ,

r ap
Vuuon

tr) Upon application to the orphans‘ court. the petition must
not only allege that some of the owners are minors, but must.
name them and show which are minors, otherwise the proceed

ings will be set aside on certiorarl.

Ourm v. Jankiiu, &2en. 679.

PARTITION.

‘

2425

15. '1‘hat on a partition made by virtue of an order of the prerogative
court or orphans’ court in any of the cases aforesaid, if any owner or any
person claiming under him or her hath, alter the death of the testator or

Provision in case
of waste.

Ib., t 1a.

intestate, and before the division, cut oil‘ or made use of any timber or

committed any waste or destruction on the premises, the commissioners
appointed to make the division shall estimate the damage done by such
owner or person claiming under him or her, and divide the premises so
that the owner shall be charged with said damage and havea share pro
portionably less in value than the other owners who have done no waste
or damage. (a)

IV. Sale when partition cannot be made.
16. That if the commissioners appointed by virtue of this act shall in
any case be of opinion that the tract or tracts of land or real estate in ques
tion are so circumstanced that a partition thereof cannot be made without
great prejudice to the owners of the same, they shall so report; and if it
shall appear by satisfactory proof that the said tract or tracts of land or
real estate cannot be partitioned among the owners and proprietors with
out great prejudice to their interest, then and in such case the court or
justice or judge to whom the application for the partition of such tract or
tracts of land or real estate shall have been made, or in ease of the death,
resignation or removal of the said justice or judge, any other justice or
judge of the same court, may order the said commissioners, or persons
appointed to make partition as aforesaid, to sell (b) such tract or tracts of
land or real estate at public auction to the highest bidder. (0)

17. That the said commissioners shall, after making such sale or sales,
report the same by writing, under their hands, to [any] stated or special
term of the court by which. or by a justice or judge whereof, such sale was
ordered to be made.

18. That if the court to which the report of the sale of such land or real
estate shall be made as aforesaid, shall approve (cl) of such sale, it shall
conﬁrm the same as valid and eﬂ'ectual in law, and shall, by rule of said
court, direct the said report to be recorded, and the said commissioners to
execute good and sufficient conveyances in the law to the purchaser or
purchasers for the tract or tracts of land or real estate so sold; which said
conveyances, duly executed as aforesaid, shall operate as an effectual bar,
both in law and equity, against the said owners and proprietors, and
against all and every person or persons claiming by, from or under them,
or either of them ; and a copy of any such report, so recorded as aforesaid.
duly certiﬁed under the seal of said court, shall be evidence in any court
of this state.

19. That every commissioner appointed by virtue of this act, shall, be
fore he enters upon the duties of his appointment, take an oath or aﬂirma
tion before some person duly authorized to administer oaths and affirmations
in this state, that he will honestly, faithfully and impartially execute the
trust and perform the duties and services required of him by this act, to
the best of his skill, knowledge and judgment.
20. That in case of the death, resignation, neglect or refusal to serve of
any of the commissioners to be appointed by virtue of this act, before the
trust, duties and services hereby required of them shall be completed,
then the court, justice or judge to whom the application for partition shall

When land to be
sold.
Ib., @ iii.

Report of ale.

Ib., | is
1>. L. uses, p. na.
-' 1875, p. 90, 5 2
If spproved,
deeds made.

R. s. 101, t 11.

Commissioner‘:
oath .
Ib., 1 18.

When vacancies
supplied.
Ib., Q 19.

(a) See Pblhermu v. Empson, 12 C. E. Gr. I96.
(0) Partition is a matter of right ; and by the ancient practice,

the tenants object to I sale on thegrvound lhnt he is not capable
alone oi‘ purchasing the entire premises, and thereforee hislnier\

both at law and in equity,the partition was made. however preju
dicial it might be to the interests oi‘ the $rlies. Benllry v.
Long Duck Cb.,i Mcﬂirl. 480, 2 blcChrL wi.
0 remedynhis evil

est may be sacriﬁced by a combination among Iris nssocinles.
Jb. When directed to sell, comniissiuners of partition have
power to sell one part, wiih an easement in another part an

the statute of I816 authorized a sale of the land when comrnis~

nexed to ll, and to sell the servient parcel subject lo such servi
tude. Rormkrnm v. Snover, 4 O. L‘. (vjr. 4'10.
(cl In case or any misunderstanding as to the bids or rights

lionern reported that l partition could not be made wiihout
[real prejudice ; by the act ofi8-16. the same power was conferred

u

n the court of chsncery u

n bills ﬂied for partition.

lb.

here the land may be divi ed a sale will not be ordered.

Iarey v. BOIDUI]/, April, 1825, Williamson, C.

Where apariiiion

of bidders thereby acquired, the commissioners are the proper
rsons to decide. (Vmotvr v. Walling, '1 Mr(‘m'!. 167, I84. Such

unnot be made without prejudice, the com iainant iseniitierl,as

ldder acquires s right which the court is bound to protect. and
has a right i0 have a deed for the propt-rly,uniess for good

ofcounse, to have a sale made of the pram ses.

cause the sale be set aside.

Dock 00., 1 Jill-Cirrt. 480. 2 Jilrﬂirl. 50!.

Bmrlzy v. Ln/cg

if true, the suggestion

that the property is ofso great value that no one individual can
buy it, constitutes no objection to I sale. lb. Nor can one of

Cbnoz-er v. ll'nlIm{/,2 1i!c(.hrt. 167.

id) The proceedings maybe discontinued at any time before
the order approving the sale is made. Bellcrjruu v. Ely. 8
Hal. 273.

PARTITION.

2426

Survivors may

make deed.

have been made, or in case of the death, resignation or removal of such
justice or judge, any other justice or judge of the same court shall by
writing under his hand and seal, appoint another commissioner or com
missioners who, after taking the oath or aﬁirmation prescribed by this act,
shall be vested with the like powers and authority as if he or they had
been originally appointed.
21. That in all cases where a sale shall be made by commissioners by
virtue of this act, if any of the said commissioners shall die after making

1b., Q 20.

such sale, and either before or after the conﬁrmation thereof, it shall and

may be lawful for the surviving commissioner or commissioners to make
report of such sale, and if the sale be conﬁrmed, to execute a deed or deeds
of conveyance to the purchasers of the said real estate, pursuant to such

sale; which deed or deeds shall have the same force, eifect and validity as
if made and executed by all the said commissioners.
-'
Proceeds of sale
paid over.

Ib., 521.

When invested.

Guardian to give
bond.
Ib.. Q22.

22. That the monies arising from every sale as aforesaid shall be ordered
by the court to be paid by the commissioners to the parties interested in the
real estate so sold, their guardians or legal representatives, in proportion
to their respective rights in the same,(a) deducting from their respective
shares the costs and charges which may be allowed and ordered to be
retained out of the same; and if any of the said parties shall be absent
from this state, without such legal representative, the proportion of the
money due to every such party shall be put out at interest on suﬁicient
security of real property, or invested in public stock, by order and under
the direction and control of said court for the beneﬁt of such party.
23. That it shall be the duty of the said courts respectively, to require
of the guardian of any person under the age of twenty-one years, entitled
to a proportion of the monies arising from any sale as aforesaid, such
security by bond to the ordinary of this state, as the said court shall judge
to be suiﬁcient, for the beneﬁt of such minor, conditioned for the faithful

recorded by sur

discharge of the trust committed to such guardian.
24. That in all cases where commissioners appointed by virtue of this
act to make partition of real estate, shall make sale thereof as aforesaid,
and shall pay the net proceeds of such sale or sales to the persons entitled

rugute.

by law to receive the same, it shall and may be lawful for the said commis

Ib., Q 5.

sioners to produce the receipts and discharges therefore to the surrogate of
the county in which the said real estate, or the more valuable part thereof,
is situate; and the said surrogate shall immediately record the same in the
book of receipts and discharges in his oﬂicc, provided the same be ﬁrst
proved or acknowledged in the manner that deeds of conveyance of land
are required to be proved or acknowledged, which proof or acknowledg
ment shall be recorded with such rcceipts and discharges; and the said
surrogate shall indorse on such receipts and discharges the book and page
on which the same are recorded, with the time of recording the same, and
sign his name thereto; and the said record, or a certiﬁed copy thereof,
under the hand and seal of oﬂicc of the surrogate, shall be received in
evidence in any court oi‘ record in this state, if it shall be made to appear
to the satisfaction of said court that the original receipt and discharge
hath been lost, or that it is not in the power of the party offering the copy
in evidence to produce the same.

Commissioners’
receipts and dis

clmfsﬁs may be

V.

Partition made
though lands
limited over.
P. L. 1852, p. 157.

Proceedings with respect to remainders,
expectancies.

25. That partition of lands held by coparccners, joint tenants or tenants
in common, may be made by any court or jurisdiction having authority
to make partition of lands on any proceeding authorized for that purpose,
notwithstanding the share held by any coparcener, joint tenant or tenant

(ft) On application for the division of the proceeds, the or
phans‘ court should admit evidence to show that the petitioner

s entitled to the equal undivided onefourth part of another
_
tenant iu commomnllhough such petitioner, in his petition,

claimed only one-fourth
UIL78.

reversions and

The deficiency

rt ofthe lands.

Cbombs‘ (me, 4 Hal.

ncurred by a resale oi‘ the property,

when recovered, must be distributed, by order oi‘ the court, as

part oi‘ the money arising from the sale of the land. Jfirhzner
v. Lloyd, l C. 1~,‘. Gr. 38. Alter an order ordlstributiomench
heir or tenant in common may have an action at law against
the commissioners for his share. The commissioners are
Jointly liable. Hull V. Hlauiru, 8 Gr. 58. Upon sale ofland of
married women. the proceeds will be ordered gold to the hus
band and wife. Jilullrr ql Purllllon, it-c. , 3 Hal.
_

PARTITION.

2427

in common, may be for a less estate than a fee, or may be limited over
after an estate for life, or any estate therein; and such partition shall bind
all tenants of such share, in remainder, reversion or expectancy, who shall
be entitled only to that part of the lands partitioned as may be set oil‘ in
severalty to the share upon which such remainder or expectancy is limited;
provided, that in all cases where such remainder, reversion or expectancy is
limited over to any person in being, such person shall be served with like
notice or process as may he by law required to be served on the owner or
tenant of such share in such proceeding of partition, if notice be required
therein; and in all such cases where partition is made of lauds, of which
any share is limited over, and which are held in equal undivided shares,
the commissioners, or other persons making partition, shall divide said
lands and allot the shares, and certify such division and allotment in the
manner directed by this act. (a) [Sec Sec. 66, p0sI.]

26. That in all proceedings for the partition of lands, where all or any of

When sale may

the undivided shares thereof is or are limited over in the manner speciﬁed be made.
P. L 1861, p. 818,
in the next preceding section of this act, a sale thereof may be made upon ti.
an order or decree of the court of chancery, when such proceedings shall
have been commenced in that court; but no such sale shall be ordered

unless a division of said flands cannot be made without impairing their
value to the extent of at least one-fourth part thereof, and shall be so
reported or otherwise made to appear to the satisfaction of the chancellor.
27. That in all such partition proceedings, when a sale shall be made as
aforesaid, such sale and deed to the purchaser shall convey the title to said
lands of all the tenants either in possession, remainder, reversion or expect
ancy; hut the net proceeds of the sale of any share not held in fee-simple
or limited over, shall be invested and kept invested in the name of the
state of New Jersey, under the order and direction of the court of chan
cery, for the use of the person or persons owning such share, upon bond
secured by mortgage to said state, either upon the property so sold, or any
part thereof, or the fee-simple of other unincumbered real estate in this
state, worth at least double the principal sum so secured thereon, two
thirds of which value shall be in the land itself, independently of any
building thereon ; and such bond and mortgage, after being duly recorded,
shall be ﬁled in the oﬂlce of the clerk in chancery, and there remain as of
record until duly satisﬁed and discharged; and said clerk shall be author
ized to certify copies thereof under the seal of said court, and such copies,
so certiﬁed, shall be evidence as other records and ﬁles of said court are,
when so certiﬁed; and the interest accruing on such bond shall be paid
yearly or half yearly, according to the condition thereof, to the person or
persons who would have been tenant or tenants of the particular estate of
such share if there had been no such sale thereof, his heirs, executors,

Proceeds ofsale,
how Invested.
Ih., 5 ‘L

administrators or assigns, and shall be so secured by the condition of such
bond and mortgage; and the principal and the interest also, when not
paid as aforesaid, shall be collected under the order and direction of the
court of chancery.
28. That whenever all or any portion of the principal sum of money so as
aforesaid secured shall be collected, it shall be paid only to the said clerk
in chancery, and when so paid it shall be considered as in that court. and
shall there remain until paid out or re-invested under the order and direc
tion of that court, and said clerk and his sureties shall be responsible
therefore, and no other payment shall discharge such bond and mortgage
or authorize any county clerk to discharge the registry or record thereof;
and the said clerk in chaneery shall be entitled to one-quarter of one per
centum on all monies paid into said court and re-invested or paid out
under or by virtue of this act, to be taken out of the increase or interest
and not out of said principal; and whenever the particular estate or estates

Final disposition
of the fund.
Ih., Q 3.

Clerk's few.
Ib.

in such share of said lands would ha\'e been determined and the same
become vested in fee-simple absolute, if no such sale thereof had been
(a) Upon a blll for Partition among remalndermen, the eon
sent of the owner 0

the particular estate ln possession ls

requisite, and," s sale be ordered, lt must be a sale of the

whole estate, as well that in possession as that In expectancy.
Smith v. Gainer, 12 Slew. 545, reverslng 11 Stew. 65.

PARTITION.

9428

Punishment for
embezzlement.
1b., § 4.

Partition on sale
by consent of ten
ant of particular

estate.
P. L. 1858, p. 478.

made, then the said principal shall be paid or such bond and mortgage
assigned, under the order and direction of said court of chancery, to the
person or persons in whom such share would then have become vested in
fee-simple absolute, had no such sale been made, his, her or their heirs or
assigns.
29. That if any master in chancery, clerk, or other person shall willfully
embezzle or convert to his own use any money that shall come to his hands
under or by virtue of the provisions of this act, he shall be guilty of a mis
demeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment
at hard labor, or otherwise, not exceeding two years, or by ﬁne not exceed
ing one thousand dollars, or both.
30. That where there is an estate for life or lives, or other less estate, in
any lands or tenements situate in this state, and the reversion or remainder
in fee is owned by several persons as joint tenants, coparceners or tenants
in common, and the particular tenant or tenants shall consent thereto,
partition of the said lands or tenements may be made among said joint
tenants, coparceners or tenants in common, by any court or jurisdiction
having authority to make partition of lands; and the said particular
tenant or tenants shall have the same estate or estates in the respective
parts which may be set off in severalty, as he, she, or they may have had
in the whole lands or tenements before such partition shall have been
made; and in case partition cannot be made of such lands or tenements,
or any part thereof, without great prejudice to the said joint tenants,
coparceners or tenants in common, so that a sale thereof shall be ordered,
the whole estate, in possession as well as in expectancy, in the said lands
or tenements, or in the said part thereof which cannot be divided, shall
be sold, and such portion of the proceeds of said sale shall be paid to the
particular tenant or tenants as shall be just and reasonable, accordiiig to
the quantity of his, her or their estate and interest in said lands or tene
ments, and as shall be ascertained by the court ordering such partition or
sale. (a)
VI. Proceedings where some of the owners are unknown, or

the residence of some of them' is unknown.
Proceedings in
case some of the
tenants are

unknown.

P. L. 1863, p. 4s-z,

Q1.

31. That where real estate is held by coparceners, joint tenants or ten
ants _in common, some or any one of whom are unknown, the others, or
either one or more of them, may commence a suit by bill, for partition, in
the court of chancery, in the same manner as if all the owners of such real
estate were known, making such unknown owner or owners of said real
estate a party or parties thereto, by a publication according to the law
and practice of said court in case of absent defendants, under the order
(said order describing such real estate in such manner and terms as will
identify the same, by abuttals and boundaries or otherwise, and naming
the ancestor or other person last owning the said real estate in severalty),
of the chancellor, in one or more of the newspapers of this state, or else
where, directing such unknown owner or owners to appear, plead, answer
or dernur to the said bill within such time as the chancellor shall direct,
not less than six months from the date of such order; which order shall

Partition.

be published, as aforesaid, within twenty days from the date thereof, and
continued in said newspaper or newspapers at least once each week to
within ten days of the expiration of the time limited to appear, plead,
answer or demur; and at the expiration of the time limited in said order,
the chancellor shall make such decree against said unknown owner or
owners as if they were known to the court, and as may be equitable and
just; and shall have power to decree a partition of said real estate among
the owners thereof, in the 'same manner, as if all were known and by
name had been made parties to said suit; and if the court shall be unable
to determine the estates of such unknown parties, then the chancellor
shall make partition among those owners whose estates can he ascertained,

(<1) Bee Smith v. Gaines, 12 Stew. 6-15.

PARTITION.
in such manner as may in his judgment be equitable, and so that the
owners of such ascertained estates shall hold their respective shares in
severalty; and in case it shall appear to the chancellor that the said real
estate is so circumstanced that such partition thereof cannot he made
without great prejudice to the interests of the owners thereof, then the
chancellor shall have power to decree a sale of said real estate, and to direct
the execution of a deed or deeds therefore, to the purchaser or purchasers,
which deed or deeds shall convey all the right, title and estate of all the
owners of said real estate, ascertained and unascertained, as completely and
effectually as if all the owners were by name made parties to said bill. and,
as such, brought before the court ; and after such sale the chancellor shall
decree the distribution of the monies arising therefrom among the owners
of said real estate, in such shares as they may be entitled to, and shall in
vest, under the direction and control of said court, such portion of the pro
ceeds of said sale as may belong to those owners who are unknown to the
court, for the beneﬁt of such owners, and shall order the payment thereof,
from time to time, to those who are entitled to receive the same, and as they
shall be ascertained by the court.
32. That in proceedings under the preceding section the chancellor shall
be governed by the rules and practice of said court, and by the provisions
of this act, in suits in partition in said court, except only as the same may
be altered by the next preceding section; and all estate by curtesy and
dower in said real estate, may be sold by the decree of said court, and a
certain sum be ordered to be paid in lieu thereof; or a certain share of the

2429

On sale.

Proceedings to
be according to
practice of court
b., Q 2.

Enates by cur
tay or dower

may be sold.
Amended.

proceeds of the sales of said real estate be invested for the beneﬁt of the
person or persons entitled to such estate, in the same manner as is herein
before provided for on the sale of such estates.

33. That the chancellor shall make such order for the payment of the
costs and expenses of the proceedings aforesaid as the practice and authority
of said court, in partition and sale thereon, will permit, and as he shall
deem equitable and just.
34. That where the residence of any person interested in the proceeds
of lands or real estate which have been heretofore, or may be hereafter,
sold, by virtue of any proceedings in partition in this state, is unknown,
or where it is not known whether a person who, if living, would be inter

Chancellor to
make rules.

Ib., Q 3.

If it is not known
whether a party is
living, or his resi
dence is unknown.
P. L. 1865, p. 909.

ested in such proceeds of the sale of lands or real estate, is living or not,
it shall be lawful for the court having the power, by order or decree, of
distributing such proceeds, to order the share or interest of any such
person to be invested in bonds of this state, or of any city or county of
this state, authorized by law to issue bonds, or on bonds secured by mort
gage on real estate, or in such public or other securities as the court may
approve, and to direct and control the custody of the securities which
may

be taken, from time to time, for any investment ordered; and also,

either before or after an investment is ordered at such time as the court
may determine to order or decree a distribution of the share or interest,
which any such person, if living, would be entitled to, among and to the
person or persons interested in such proceeds, as are known to be living,
in proportion to their interest therein respectively, or to and among the
person or persons who are, if it shall appear such person has died, entitled
by law to receive the same as an heir or heirs; and the court may ﬁx the
time when it shall be supposed or deemed such person died; and may
order refunding bonds to be given by or on behalf of any of the persons
to whom any part of such share shall be distributed, to the clerk of the
court and his successors in office, in such sum and with such condition,
with or without security, as the court may direct.

35. That it shall be lawful for said court to control the custody of said
refunding bonds; and on petition of any person or persons who shall make
it appear to the satisfaction of said court that the petitioner or petitioners
is or are entitled to the money secured by one or more of said refunding
bonds, or any part thereof, to order that the money secured thereby be
collected for the beneﬁt of such person or persons, by and in the name of
the clerk of the court who is hereby authorized to sue thereon, and in case

Custody and con
trol of bonds.
P. L. 1864, p. 672,

§ 2.

Suit on.

PARTITION.

2430

Disposition of
money.
Costs.

of his death pending a suit thereon, the same may be continued in the
name of his successor, and said court may dispose of the money collected
thereon, by order or decree, as to said court may seem just and right ; and
the said court may order and decree the payment of such costs and
expenses out of said share or interest at any time, as the court may deem
necessary and expedient.

VII. General provisions.
Judgments, &<L ,

to be liens only on
shares allotted to
debtor.
R. S. 101, § 14.

Part of land may

be divided, and
residue sold.
P. L. 1858, p. 104.

With respect to
lands devised by

parent.

P. L. 1858, p. 121.

Chancery ma
decree sale o

ianda
E. S. 10], QN.

Report of sales
may be made to
s
ial term.

36. That if there be, at the time of making any partition by virtue of
this act, a lien upon the undivided estate of any owner, by judgment,
decree, mortgage, or otherwise, (a) such lien shall thereafter be a lien only
on the share assigned or allotted to such owner; and such share shall be
ﬁrst charged with its just proportion of the costs of the partition in prefer
ence to any such lien.
37. That in all proceedings for partition under this act, it shall and may
be lawful to divide a part of the lauds included in the application, and to
sell the remainder thereof, whenever it shall appear by the report of the
commissioners which shall designate the lands to be divided and those to
be sold and by other satisfactory proof, that the whole of the lands cannot
be divided among owners and proprietors without great prejudice to their
interest.
38. That in all causes now pending, or which may hereafter be com
menced in the court of chancery, for partition of lands devised by a parent
to his or her children, of which lands any share is limited over, the pro
ceedings may be in conformity with the authority and practice of said
court, as the same were before the passage of this act; unless the said
court shall otherwise order and direct.

39. That the court of chancery shall have power upon bill filed in that
court for the partition of real estate, to decree the sale thereof. (b)

40. That all the courts in this state, exercising power under this act,

Remedy ifjudge
shall die or go
out ofoiiice.
P. L. 1861, p. 19.

are hereby authorized to receive reports of all sales made by their order
or by the order of a justice or judge thereof, at any special term of said
courts, and to conﬁrm such sales and order title to be made to the pur
chaser, aiid which shall be valid and eifectual in law, as if made at any
stated term of said court.
41. That in case the term of oﬂice of the justice or judge who shall have
made, or who shall hereafter make an appointment of commissioners for
the division of real estate shall have expired, or shall hereaiter expire, or
in case of his death during the progress of the proceedings, then any
justice or judge of the same court, or the court to which such justice or
judge belonged, may order the said commissioners to sell such real estate,
in the same manner as such justice could have done in case he had sur
vived and his term of office had not expired.

Defects in fonn,
&c., not to invali
date partitions or
sales.
P. L. lR.'>'i, p. 34.

parceners, joint tenants or tenants in common, by order of any orphans’
court in said state, nor any sale thereof by commissionersappointed to

. L. 1866, p. 418.

Orders also made.

42. That no partition of lands in this state heretofore made between co
make such partition, shall be held or esteemed to be invalid by reason of

any defect in the form of the application, or of any supposed want of power
in said court to order or decree said partition or sale, where the said appli
cation for partition is in fact between coparceners, joint tenants or tenants
in common, and the heir or heirs of a deceased coparcener, joint tenant or
(a) A voluntsrype rtition-between tenanisincommon, in all
respects ihir, equal and just upheld, and alien u n the lands
held in comuioinundera ud gment again.-ii one o iht'C0~l9i\BDlS.

although the former cannot claim aspeciﬂc performance oi‘ the

Hr.ld,to hsvebeen trans erred to ilie lands conveyed

the money so advanced a lien upon the land.

in the

tenant in common, and advances money in part payment,
agreement, it court ofequity, in ii suit for partition. will decree

Onnpbeu v,

partition tothe Judgmeiitdebior. Hilhrnim v. Empwn, 12 C. E.
Gr. 190: reversed, l Slew. 439. A partition will not aifect any

Glmpbrll, 3811;;-k, ‘J68,

rights, legal or equitable. whiclia creditor may have.

sets up an equitable title to the whole estate in the premises, the
court will not suspend the suituntli the title be settled. hut wm
pass upon such title in thepartiiion suit. Rrmi v. Huj, 13 Sun.
-.
A sale of lauds may he set aside, where no advertisement
was set u in the township where the lands lie, the purchaser

ii‘ the

land isllable for debts before the partition, ii. will remain no
afterwards. .S'pr.rr v. Spin‘, 1 M1.-ﬂirt. 240. By partition, a
mo
deed as a lien. is transferred exclusively to the share
set 0 to the morixmzor. l(!I11¢V. .mml¢!m|.9 0- E-I 0'1 4|!
Ano1i_|/moun, 3 Hur. 415. Where one tenant in common makes
a parol agreement for the purchase of the interest of another

(II) Where the defendant, in s suit for partition in chancery,

being repn d his purchasemoney with interest. Rndderow v.
Dudley, 14 Slew. 611.

PARTITION.

2431

tenant in common, or any claiming under them, but that the said parti
tion and sale, if in other respects legal, shall and the same is hereby de

elared to be valid and effectual in law.
43. That any partition of lands heretofore made or hereafter to be made
upon

application by any eoparcener, joint tenant or tenant in common

therein, to any court,judge, judges or other oiiicers havingjurisdiction in
matters of partition, in which process has been served or notice given in
the manner required by law, and any sale of lands by virtue of an order

Limitation on
writ of error and
certlorari.
P. L. 1861, p. 434.

therefore made in any such proceeding for partition, shall be binding and
conclusive upon all coparceners, joint tenants or tenants in common, and all

persons claiming or to claim any interest in any share in said lands, in
reversion or remainder, notwithstanding any error or illegality in such pro
ceedings for partition or sale, unless such proceedings shall have been re
versed or set aside on certiorari, writ of error or other proceedings to review
the same, (a) brought within three years after such partition or sale.

44. That nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as to injure,
prejudice, defeat or destroy the estate, right or title of any person or per
sons claiming such tract or tracts of land, (b) or any part thereof, or
anything therein, by title under any other person or persons, or by title
paramount or superior to the title of such eoparcener, joint tenant or

Rights of other
parties saved.
R S. 101, 9'27.

tenant in common, among whom partition is to be made ; and that nothing

in this act contained shall extend to the partitioning of the lauds held
in common by the general proprietors of the eastern or western divisions
of this state.

East and West
Jersey proprie
I011

VIII. Fees.

45. That there shall be allowed in proceedings under this act:
lb.,Q'.'A.
TO THE JUSTICE, JUDGE OR COURT.

For order of sale, one dollar ;

For conﬁrmation of sale and ordering conveyance, one dollar.
TO THE CLERK.

For entering and ﬁling report of sale, ﬁity cents;
For recording the same, for each sheet, eight cents;
For entering order of conﬁrmation and for conveyance, ﬁity cents.
TO THE SURROGATE.

For drawing petition, reading, ﬁling and recording decree appointing
commissioners, and_ a certiﬁed copy of such decree, three dollars and forty
cents;

For recording report of commissioners, for each sheet, eight cents.

COMMISSIONERS.
For each commissioner, one dollar and ﬁity cents a day for each day
employed in the service, together with all actual expenses for surveying,
chain-bearing assistants and other necessary expenses, and such further
reasonable allowance as the court may judge proper, to be taxed by the
court. (0)
’
(a) Jlandamuu or aertiorart may be allowed to review the roeeedings. Eu
ha v. Dunlap, 1 G1-.28-I, ‘.589. See Hau v. 10FIN. 8 Gr. 58, 62.
llaz-well v. Govlso-Mus, 11 V1-.835.
(b) The act was not intended by the legislature ass mode by
which the real estate of the wife, without her consent, could be
convened inw personalty, and placed at the disposal oi‘ the
husband. The sole object oi the act is to provides mode "for

the more easy partition of lands held by coparceners, joint ten
ants and ltenants in common," and not to p udice or destroy,
by its operation, the legal or ult-able rightso the parties inter
ested in the land. Osborne v. Auxrrds, 3 Stock. 73.
(c) As to the power of the court of chancery in making al
lowances to commissioners, see Oronkriaht v. Hautenbeck, B
Slew. 279.

2432
Commissions on
sales.
P. L. 1355, p. 503.

PARTITION.
46. That whenever any commissioners, appointed under this act, shall
make sale of any lands, and the court or judge shall allow them commis
sions on the amount of sales, such commissions shall not exceed the
following rates, to wit: on all sums not exceeding one thousand dollars,
two per centum; if over one thousand dollars, and not exceeding three
thousand dollars, one per centum on such excess; and if over three thou
sand dollars, one-half of one per centum on such excess.
Supplement.
Approved April 9, 1875.

P. L. 1875, p. 9-I.

Partitions and
sales heretofore
conﬁrmed
declared valid.
Proviso.

[The amendments made by Secs. 1 and 2 have been inserted in Secs. 10
and 17 of the foregoing act.]
4'1. SI-:0. 3. That all partitions and sales of real estate heretofore con
ﬁrmed by the prerogative court, or by any orphans’ court of any county in
this state, at any term of said court, shall be valid and effectual in law,

though the same were conﬁrmed at the same term during which such
partition or sale was made; provided, said partition or sale was otherwise
legal.
Supplement.

P. L. 1884, p. 215.
Liens of creditor
not aﬂected by
partition of
premises.

How lien on undi
vided interest. is
aﬁected by parti
tlon.

Creditors having
liens on undivided
interests may be
made parties to
proceedings.

When court may
order bill amended
to make lien
creditors a party
to proceedings.

Order of refer
ence may be

made.

Proceeds oi’ sale
of certain inter

Approved April 17, 1881.

48. SEC. 1. That it shall not be necessary, in the ﬁrst instance, to make
any creditor having a lien on any real estate whereof a partition is sought
in the court of chancery, or any part thereof, by judgment, decree, mort
gage or otherwise, a. party to the proceedings, nor shall the partition of the
premises alter, aifect or impair the lien of such creditors, except in the
cases provided for in the next section.

49. SEC. 2. That where the lien is on the undivided interest or estate of
any of the parties, such lien, if partition be made of the premises, shall

thereafter be a charge only on the share assigned to such party, and such
share shall be ﬁrst charged with its just proportion of the costs of the pro
ceedings in partition in preference to any such lien.

50. Sac. 3. That the complainant in any such suit in partition may, at
his or her election, make every creditor having a lien on the undivided
interest or estate of any of the parties, by mortgage, judgment, decree,
devise or otherwise, a party to the proceedings, and in such case the bill
shall set forth the nature of such lien or encumbrance.

51. SEO. 4. That before the making of any order for the sale of the prem
ises where the creditors having liens shall not have been made parties, the
court, on the motion of either party, shall direct the complainant to amend
his or her bill of complaint by making every creditor having a lien on the
undivided interest, share or estate of any of the parties, by mortgage,
judgment, decree, devise or otherwise, a party to the proceedings, and may
thereupon. by an order of reference for that purpose, direct a master of the
court to ascertain and report whether the shares or interests in the premises
of the parties in such suit, or any of them, are subject to any lien or incum
brance by mortgage, devise, judgment or decree, or otherwise, and if so, to
what liens or encumbrances, and by whom they are held.
52. Sec. 5. That if it shall appear, by the proceedings in the suit or by
such report, that there are any existing liens or encumbrances upon the

ests to be paid

into court.

estate, sharc or interest in the premises of any party named in the proceed
ings in said suit, the court shall, if it order sale, in the decree for sale direct
the master or commissioners, as the case may be, to bring into the court of

Proceedings in
case parties in
interest apply to
court for monies

claimed.

chanccry and pay to the clerk thereof the portion of the monies arising from
the sale of the estate, sharc and interest of said party after deducting the
portion of the costs, charges and expenses to which it shall be liable.
53. SEO. 6. That any party in interest, either owner or encumbrancer, may
apply to the court to order such monies or such part thereof as he shall claim
to be paid to him, which application shall be accompanied by his aﬂidavit,
stating, to the best of his knowledge, information and belief, the true
amount actually due on each encumbrance, the owner of such incnmbrance

PARTITION.

2433

and his residence, so far as known to such party; and it shall be also ac
companied by proof, by affidavit,of the due service of a notice on each
owner of any encumbrance, and on the owner of the share if the notice be
given by an encumbrancer of the intention to make such application; if
such owner reside in this state, the notice shall be a. fourteen days‘ notice,
at least, and shall be served personally, or, if he be absent from his resi

dence, by leaving a copy there with some person of over the age of four
teen years; ii‘ the person to be notiﬁed reside out of this state, such notice

shall be served on him or her personally,twenty days previously to the
time named therein for making the application or by publishing the same
in a newspaper (to be designated by the court) published in this state, for
four weeks successively, at least once in every week, and mailing a copy
thereof to his address (if it can be ascertained) at least twenty days before
the time named for the application.
54. S!-1c. 7. That upon such application and proof of notice being made,
the court shall proceed to hear the proofs and allegations of the parties,
and make such order thereupon as the circumstances of the case may
r uire.
. Sec. 8. That when the amount of existing encumbrances shall have
been ascertained, the court shall proceed to order a distribution of the
monies so brought into and remaining in court among the several creditors
having such encumbrances, according to the priority thereof, respectively,
and the other persons, if any, entitled thereto.
56. Sr-:0. 9. That the clerk or other oﬂicer of the court by whom any such
encumbrance shall be paid oii‘, shall procure satisfaction thereof to be
acknowledged in the form required by law, and shall cause such incum
brance to be duly satisﬁed or canceled of record, and shall defray the
expenses thereof out of the portion of the monies in court belonging to
the party by whom such incnmbrance was payable, if there be enough for

Court to hear
proois, &c., and

make order.

Distribution of
monies to credi
tors, how made.

Clerk or other
oliloer to procure
satistaction of
claims.

the purpose, but ii’ not, then out of the money due the encumbrancer.

57. Si-:0. 10. That the proceedings to ascertain and settle the amount of
encumbrances as herein pro\'ided shall not atfect any other party in such
suit for partition nor delay the paying over or investing of monies to or for
the benefit of any party except the one upon whose share in the premises
the incnmbrances are.
58. Sec. ll. That any conveyance executed in pursuance of sale in par
tition, under proceedings in partition in the court of chancery, under and
in pursuance of the provisions of this act, shall be recorded in the county
where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar, both in law and equity,

against all persons interested in such premises in any way who shall have
been parties in the said proceedings, and against all other persons claiming
by, from or under such parties or either of them.
59. SEO. 12. That proceedings in partition which may be pending when
this act goes into effect shall not be invalidated thereby, but any proceed
ings to be had upon any suit already commenced or hereafter to be brought
after this act shall take effect, shall be conducted according to the fore
going provisions.

Proceedings not
to aifect other
parties to suit.

Conveyances to
be recorded and
to bar persons
interested in
premises.

Proceedings
pending not in
validated by act.

Supplement.
Approved April 20, 1885.

60. SI-:0. 1. That where two or more parties toa suit now pending, or
which may hereafter be commenced, in the court of chancery for the parti
tion of lands, make it appear to the court that they desire to enjoy their

P. L. 1585, p. Z85.
Partition of lands
of parties to suit
in chancery who
desire to enjoy

respective shares of the whole or any part of said lands in common with

each other, it shall be lawful for the court, in its discretion, to direct par
tition to be so made as to set oﬁ' to them their shares of the lands parti-.
tioned, without partition as between themselves, to be held by them in
common; and where any party to any such suit for partition is a minor,
under the age of twenty-one years, it shall be lawful for the court, in its
discretion, and if it shall appear to be for the beneﬁt of such minor, to

direct partition to be so made as to set oil‘ to such minor, and to any other
' 153

their shares in
common.

2434

PARTITION.
party or parties to such suit who may consent thereto, their respective shares
in the lands partitioned, without partition as between themselves, to be held
by them in common.
Supplement.
Approved April 16, 1886.

61. S1-:0. l. [Amended by Sec. 62, post]
A supplement to an act entitled “ A further supplement to an act en
titled ‘An act for the more easy partition of lands held by copart
ners, joint tenants and tenants in common,’ approved March
twenty-seventh, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four,”
which supplement was approved April sixteenth, one thousand
eight hundred and eighty-six.
P. L. 1887, p. 159.

Approved April 8, 1857.

62. SEO. 1. That the ﬁrst section of the act entitled “ A further supple

Court may order
lnchoete estates
of dower in lands
to be sold, ac.

Onethlrd of pm
ceeds to be
invested, &c.

Principal, lo
whom paid.

Proviso.

ment to an act entitled ‘An act for the more easy partition of lands held
by copartners, joint tenants and tenants in common,’ approved March
twenty-seventh, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four,” which
further supplement was approved April sixteenth, one thousand eight
hundred and eighty-six, be and the same is hereby amended so as to read
as follows :
['l‘hat in any proceedings for the partition of lands in the court of
chancery of this state, or the orphans’ court of any county therein, or
upon any application made or hereafter made to any justice of the supreme

court or judge of any circuit court or court of common pleas of the county
wherein such lands may lie, all inchoate estates of dower in lands ordered in
said proceedings to be sold, may be sold by the order of said court, justice
or judge, and in such case said estates in dower shall be forever barred, and
the court by which said sale shall be conﬁrmed shall direct one-third of
the net proceeds of the sale of the share or shares in such lands as are sub
ject to such dower to be invested and the income thereof during the life
time of the tenant in fee of such share or shares to be paid to such tenant
or to the lienors upon such share or shares and upon the death of such
tenant said income shall be paid to the tenant in dower during her life
time, and upon her death the court

hall order the principal of said fund

to be paid to the heirs-at-law of the tenant in fee or to the parties holding
liens upon the said share or shares at the time of the sale thereof and
remaining unsatisﬁed at the death of the tenant in dower, as equity may
require; provided, however, if such tenant in dower or person holding such
inchoate estate of dower shall signify her consent thereto in writing,
acknowledged as deeds are required to be acknowledged by married
women, the proceeds of the sale of such share or shares as are subject to
such dower shall be paid over as though no such estate existed]

Supplement.
P. L. ism, p. 155.
Disposition of

Approved April 9, 1887.

63. SEC. 1. That in all partition cases in the court of chancery where

proceeds when

inchonte estates of
dower are sold.

inchoate estates of dower in any lands are ordered to be sold therewith, in
stead of investing one-third of the net proceeds of the sale of the share or
shares in such lands subject to such dower, as now directed by law, it shall
be lawful for the master or other oﬂicer making such sale, on executing to
him a full release and discharge, duly acknowledged according to law, from
the tenant in fee and his wife entitled to such inchoate right of dower, to
pay to them the one-third of the net proceeds aforesaid ; provided, however,
that where the share or interest of the tenant in fee has been sold by judg
ment or otherwise, or become subject to any valid lien. then such payment
shall not be made without all such parties in interest shall join in such
release and discharge.

2435

PARTITION.

Supplement.
Approved February Zi, 1888.

64. SE2. 1. That any executor or administrator with the will annexed,

P. L. 1888, p. 81.
Executor, &x:., oi‘

whose testator has or shall have died seized of an undivided share of any

will having power
to sell lands, may

lands, tenements or hereditamcnts situated in this state, and who has or
shall ‘have, under the provisions of such testator's will, power to sell such

maintain action
for partition.

undivided share, shall hereafter have the same power to bring an action to
eilect a partition of such lands, tenements or hereditaments in any court in
this state of competent jurisdiction, that such testator might have brought,
if living.
Supplement.
Approved March 28, 1888.

65. SEC. 1. That all suits in partition heretofore or hereaiter begun, in
any of the courts of this state, wherein a sale of the lands sought to be par
titioned is or shall be made, and any judgment or judgments are or shall
be obtained against any oi‘ thc distributees, their executors, administrators
or legal representatives, at any time prior to the distribution of the pro

P. L. 1888, p. 298.
Payment to
judgment credi

tors out of dis
tributive shares,
when ordered
by court.

ceeds of any such sale, such judgment creditor or creditors may, upon

petition ﬁled in such cause, have an order, and such court is hereby au
thorized to make the same, directing the payment of such judgment or
judgments out of the proceeds of the sale of such share or shares against
which the same would be a lien had such share or shares been owned by
such debtor or debtors in severalty.
Supplement.
Approved April 14, 1891.

66. S110. 1. That in all proceedings now or hereafter pending for the
partition of lands where all or any of the undivided shares whereof is or are
limited over in the manner speciﬁed in section twenty-ﬁve of the act
[Revision] to which this is a supplement, a sale thereof may be made upon
an order or decree of the court of chaucery, whenever it shall be made to
appear to the court that the tract or tracts of land or real estate in question
are so circumstanced that a partition thereof cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners or persons interested in the same.
67. SEC. 2. That in all partition proceedings wherein the sale of lands
limited over shall hereafter be decreed by the court of chancery, and there
shall be an executor, trustee or administrator cum testamento annexo
appointed by any last will and testament or by virtue of the order or
decree of any court and by the terms of such will, such executor, trustee
or administrator cum testamento annexo has authority to collect and
receive the rents and issues of all or any part of such lands during the
lives of any person or persons named in such will, but has no power
to make sale of said lands or any interest therein upon such execu
tor, trustee or administrator cum testamento annexo giving bonds to the
ordinary (in the same manner as now required upon the granting of letters
of administration) in the oﬁlces of the clerk of the court whegein said will
was proved, or from which he received his appointment as such trustee or
administrator, then it shall be lawful for the chancellor to decree that the
proceeds of sale of any lands or interest in any lands to which said executor,
trustee or administrator cum testamento annexo was entitled to the rents
and proﬁts shall be paid over to said executor, trustee or administrator

cum testamento annexo, to be by him held and invested according to the
law concerning other trust funds and the income thereof, paid and applied
by him to the persons entitled to the rents and proﬁts of said lands which
said monies represent; and upon the death of the person so entitled to
such income, to pay said principal sum to the persons entitled to the same
under the provisions of said will.

P. L. 1891, P. 4%.
Sale of lands
limited over may
be made in parti
iion proceedings.

Proceeds of sale,
how invested

2436

PARTITION.
A supplement to an act entitled “ An act to authorize the partition of
lands, in cases where particular undivided shares therein are
limited over," approved March sixth, eighteen hundred and ﬁfty

two. ( 1)
P. L. 1893, p. 245.

Approved March 13, 1893.

Prweedwfwle
68. SEO. l. 'l‘hat whenever it shall be made to appear to the court oi’
°"" chancery that any land in this state, or any estate therein, hereafter sold in
whom ,,,,,,,.,, ,,,,,,.

any partition proceeding by the order or decree of any court‘ of this state,

have been devised has been devised by any last will or testament of any person or persons, a
"1 "“"citizen or resident of any other state at the time of the making of such last
will and testament, upon any trust, or subject to any limitation over by way
of expectancy or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the chancellor to direct
the payment of the proceeds of such sale to such devisee or devisees, being
trustees as aforesaid, as are, by tl1e provisions of such last will and testa
ment, under said trust, entitled to have and hold the land sold as aforesaid,
notwithstanding the estate of such devisee or devisees, trustees as aforesaid,
created or passed by said last will and testament, be subject to a limita
tion over or be less than estate in fee-simple; which proceeds of sale shall
be held, accounted for and disposed of by such devisee or devisees, trustees
as aforesaid, in all respects as directed by the provisions of such last will
59¢\"'l!Yt0be
"“’°“'

and testament,and not otherwise; provided, that nothing herein contained
shall relieve such devisee or devisees, trustees as aforesaid, from the duty

to give security, in the state of which such testator was a citizen or resi
dent at the time of his death, for the faithful execution of such trust in

Bep@u1@rrespect to such proceeds of said sale, when required so to do either by the
provisions of such last will and testament or by the order of any court of
competent jurisdiction in said state.
69. SEO. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provi
sions of this act, to the extent of such inconsistency, be and the same are
hereby repealed, and that this act shall take eifect immediately.
A supplement to the act entitled “ An act for the partition and sale of
real estate where some of the owners are unknown," approved
March twenty-ﬁfth, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three. (2)

P. L. 1871, p. 8.

Approved January 81, 1871.

P">"'"*'°" f°'I'"*
70. SEO. 1. That where real estate is held by coparceners, joint tenants,
t-}:',‘,’,“b°y'c':‘x‘):\°‘_'f'“‘° or tenants in common, any of whom shall be presumed to be dead, pursuant
m,e,,,,j°1,,m,,,.

to the provisions of the act entitled “ An act declaring when the death of

antsortenantsin

persons absenting themselves shall be presumed,” passed the seventh day

‘;'v°)'1"‘)';"s‘;;;;§e°f

of Ma1'oh, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, and it shall not

,,M,,,,,e,,,o,,e

be known whether such owner is living or not, or whether, if dead, he or

dead.

she has devised his or her interest in such real estate, or who are his or her

heirs-at-law, the other coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, or
any one of them, may commence a suit by bill for partition in the court of
chancery, in the same manner as if all the owners of such real estate were
known, making parties thereto as well such owner so presumed to be dead,
by his right name, as his heirs-at-law and devisees,by the right name of
such of them (if any there be) as shall be known to be his or her heirs-at
law if such owner were actually dead, and by the name of the unknown
heirs-at-law and devisees of such owner, by the service of a subpoena to
answer, as in other suits in the said court, or by a publication according
to the law and practice of said court in case of absent defendants, and by
such further publication as is provided for and required in the ﬁrst section
of the act to which this is a supplement, and thereupon such proceedings
shall be had as are directed by the act to which this is a supplement ; and
the chancellor shall have the power to make such decree against the said
owner so presumed to be dead, and against his heirs-at-law, known or
unknown, and his unknown devisees, as if they were known to the court
lg The act to which this is n supplement (P. L. 1352, . 157) is embodied in the ibregoing act, section 25 a srq.
2 The act to which this in n supplement (P. L_ 1563, p. 482) is embodied in the foregoing act, sections 81 to -‘Li.

PARTNERSHIP.

2437

and their respective interests in such real estate determined; and shall also
have all such power and authority in respect to the cases provided for by
this act, as is granted to him by the act to which this is a supplement in

respect to the cases therein provided for; and any deed or deeds for such
real estate, made pursuant to the decree and order of the chancellor in any
such cases, shall convey all the right, title and estate of all the owners of
such real estate, ascertained and unascertained, as completely and effect

ually as if all the owners were by name made parties to said bill, and as
such brought before the court.

Partnership.
1. Limited partnership may be formed.

‘:2. when special partner liable as general partner.

1 Of general and special partners.

23. Special partners postponed to creditors.

1 General partners, only, to transact business.
4. Certiﬁcate to be signed.
5. Certiﬁcate to be acknowledged.
6. To be ﬂied and recorded.
7. Aﬂidavit of general partner to be ﬂied with certiﬁcate.
8. Partnership not formed if certiﬂmte and affidavit not filed.
9. Terms of partnership to be published.
10. Amclavits of publication may be ﬁled.
11. Renewal of partnership to be certiﬁed, <tc.
17. What deemed a dimolntion.
13. What names compose ﬁrm.
14. Suits may be brought against general partners.
15. Special partners may receive interest and proﬁts.
lb. Reduction of capital to be made good.
17. Rights of special partner.
i8. Accountability of general partners.
19. Liability and penalty for mimi of partner.

24. When partnership may be dissolved.
25. What business special partner may transact.
M. Special partner may sell his interest without working
dissolution.
27. Special partner may contribute goods, die, instead of cash.
28. Three or more persons may i‘orm n partnership of limited
liability.
29. Liability of individual members for judgments, debts, dc.
30. The word "limited " to be added to name in all notices, aw.
81. Interests in association to be deemed personal estate. Trans
fer of.
82. Meetings oi members and elections oi‘ managers.
33. Profits of business, how divided.
H. Unlawful to loan credit, &.c.
36. How amociation dissolved.
36. Association may sue and be sued, dtc.
37. May adopt common seal.

2). Assignment of partnership property, when void.

as. May hold real estate.

1.1. Assignment oi‘ property of partners, when void.

E9. Title to certain real estate validated.

P. L. 1&7, p. 121.

An act to authorize limited partnerships.
Passed February 9, 1881.

1. That limited partnerships, for the transaction of any mercanfile,
mechanical, or manufacturing business, within this state, may be i'ormed
by two or more persons, upon the terms, with the rights and powers, and
subject to the conditions and liabilities, herein prescribed; but the pro
visions of this act shall not be construed to authorize any such partnership
for the purpose of banking or making insurance.
2. That such partnerships may consist of one or more persons, who

shall be called general partners, and who shall be jointly and severally
responsible, as general partners now are by law, and of one or more per
sons, who shall contribute, in actual cash payments, a speciﬁc sum, as
capital, to the common stock, who shall be called special partners, and
who shall not be liable for the debts of the partnership, beyond the fund
so contributed by him or them to the capital.
3. That the general partners only, shall be authorized to transact busi

ness, and sign for the partnership, and to bind the same.

[See Sec. 26,

R. S. 872.
Limited partner~
ships may he
formed.

Liabilities Of

partners.

General partners,
only, to transact

business.

post.

4.]That the persons desirous of forming such partnership shall make
and severally sign a certiﬁcate, which shall contain :
.
lst. The name or ﬁrm under which such partnership is to be conducted.
2d. The general nature of the business intended to be transacted.
3d. The names of all the general and special partners interested therein,
distinguishing which are general, and which are special partners, and their
respective places of residence.
~
4th. The amount of capital which each special partner shall have con
tributed to the common stock.
5th. The period at which the partnership is to commence, and the period
at which it will terminate.

Contents of cer
ti ticate to be signed
by partners.

2530

PRACTICE.

Practice.
I. ATTORNEYS.

V. ARREST.
54. Female not liable to.
53 Affidavit of cause of action necessary.

May appear as partners.
Jh_0~'l 9:.'4 And in» .-<nell as other persons.
\\':u-rant oi‘ attorney. when to be ﬁled.

. To declare whetlwr writ has been issued by him, and resi
dence of plaintifff.
Malpractice, pc.nalt_\' for.

l

. in what sum sheriff‘ to take bail.
Supreme court commissioner may order.

pr

oh.
59.

\Varning to appoint another in case oi‘ death, removal, &c.,
of attorney.
Linbic For l|t"'..“iU('t.
. 1\[u.\.l file l:l.\t'd costs before execution.

\\'llen defendant may be arrested in actions cr contra/rtlt.
Arrest of one ofscveral del'eudant.~'. in actions r:r mnlrurm.
Appearance, pleading and P.\'0(‘tlLl0li in case ofsuch arrest.

61. Execu tlon and proceedings against. bail.
62. Legality oforders for bail dvtt-rmincd by judzcat chambers.

63. Discharge from arrest for insulliciency ofafiidnvils

Must (|(‘li\'('l" particlllal".~". of costs, when.
. Illcsgal cilzll"_:t'S, penalty for.
. Limitation of suit.-l for pl".-unity.

. Testimony to disprove atﬁdavits.

Ft‘). Filing special bail no waiver oi‘ right to disprove.

Must furnish taxed costs before suit.
VT. BAIL.

Not pertnittt-ll to be-come surety. in what cases.

. Agra-clnents out ofcourt not to be noticed unless in writing.

i. couulststoxmas.

Commissioners, their duty.
. How styled; powers of.

II. HOW’ Ti) l’RO.'\'E(..'L'Ti€ AND DEFEND.
\\'ho may.
iii.

Who may appear for other persons.
on writ ii‘ plalntitl‘ sue in person.

‘.3. set-".cl.tt. B.-\ll..

IT. lndorsetneut
18 inl'aut:~l.

. Declaration by the bye not allowed.
. Process against defendant in custody.
III. PARTIES.

Anlcmiccl by section 340.
Assignnn-nt of sealed instrument by writing not under seal
sutlicielll.
. A.‘s'Sl‘.‘,llt‘t.‘ may sun in case ofdcnth of assiguor.
In action e r (mil-Io, by husband and wife, husband may
add claims ill his own right.
. Action not to abate by marriage of female.
. Married woman living separate may sue, provided
gin» security for costs.

. Plaintiff, when permitted to declare.
. Amount for which bail are liable.
Special bail, when to be filed.
\Vho may be.
. Who may not be.
. Recoguizance and bail piece, form oi‘.
. Plaintiii‘ may proceed on bail bond. ifspeclal bail not ptltin.

. Proceedings against sheriﬂ‘; sheriff may put in special bail.
she

. Limitation of sherll‘l“s liability.

. After colnmitlilllr entered, plulntiﬂ', llow to declare.

Ext-cutors and administrators, how summoned; judgment
ngaillst.
Executor rt-nouncing nccd not be joined.
Substitution of £L~‘..\‘lgl1€*8 in bankruptcy, &c.

Sheriff‘ may put in special bail.

3. F.X(‘FIPTlfl.\'.
Exception to special bail. Justiﬁcation.
Notice of justification.
Ball,outol' cotlrt, when. Order of allowance P

. Suit by initial letter or contraction oi‘ name.
l. T0 Ac1‘lo.\'s ox BILLS »..\'n NOTES.

. Justiﬁcation, when not permitted.
In actions on bills, &c., parties separately liable may be
sued together.
Declaration in.

4. Jl'S’I‘Il-'l(‘A1"[0.\'.

. Judgment and set-oﬂ'i|l.
. Verdict or report in case ofset-oil‘.

.333.

Defemlant entitled to testimony ofco-defendant.

Judgment.
. Relit-fgrantcd.
Execution. order oi‘ liability on.
2.

UBJI-I(‘TI().\'3 FUR

85. Courts to make rules for justifying.

3

commissioners.
Bail, how to justify.

$333.

Render in discllarge oi‘.

5. ltl-:.\'nl~:n l.\' l)lS(‘H.\RGl-‘..

Minute of render.
Eronrrctur

.\'ﬂN-JO[.\'Dl'IR OR MIS-lOl'.\'DER.

87. Non-joinder and misjoinder, amendment in case oi‘.
38. Joinder oi‘ loo many defendants, amendment in case of
39. Amendment of writ and declaration alter plea in abate

6.

.3333
$5-3 .3 .?

ment, non-re-sidencc.
Plea in abatement. proceedings in case oi‘.

PR()(.‘F.FIDl.\'(i§ AGAINST.

Proceeding against ball.
\Vllen stayed on writ oferror brought.

Within what time nppiicat ion for a stay to be made.
Bail, who pay the judgment. to have the beneﬁt of ll
against defendant.

I V. PROCESS.
41. When courts open for the return oi‘.
-v
H

43.
4-i.
4-").
46.
47.
48.
49.
5-0.
51.
-52.
53.

Justiﬁcatlou before

7. ll.\ll. noxn.

Return of writs oferror and certiorari.
To heat‘ date on day issued.

Assignment ofbail bond.

Setting aside or stayinsg proceedings on bail bond.
.\lny iwie into diift-rent counties.
\\'here plaintifff has not losta trial.
\\'bere plaintifff has lost a trial.

How ill(iUI‘.\t‘(i.

Olnissions in \\‘l'its or indorsements do not make Writ void.
\\'l1en not stayed.
Return oi‘ process by sheriff.
May be shown to be untrue.
Slll’l‘l[DOll\‘, how served.

Putting in special bail alter laches.
8. nl~;Post'r |.\' t.|l-:t' or BAIL.

May be amended.

Capias, how executed.
Ball indorst-d on. and copy of bail bond returned.
Effect of rclurn C. C. C.

100 . Deposit with sheriff in lieu oi‘
l0l . Repayment or application of.
10?. .

Deposit in lieu oi‘ special bail.

ball.

l’RAC'l‘iCE.
\'l I. I‘I.EADI.\’G.
1'12. Du iarttlioti, Wllell tu be filed.
I'll. \\'i|en, pleat.
ltli. Amended by section 310.
lull. Manner of service, I'm*~<.

102'. Further pit-itdittgs, when to be ﬂied.
|iI‘l. Amen-intent.
ltﬂ. Ponies to take notice of tiling.

lit). Pleadings filed out of time.
ill. Notice to compel subsequent pleading.

1.

2631

I".X.\Hl.\'ATItlN (‘ll-' AI)\'I-ZRSI". PARTY P.F.FORF. TRIAL.

I59. I-lxutniuutiml ofadverse party before trial, mode of obtain
ling.
I60. \Vhen atteudmlce oi‘ compellable.
I6I. Mode of ('(')lll|)t'IIIll.'._:' attendance.
I62. Diode ofconductlng examination.
I61. Examination not conclusive.
16-I. Penalty for reinsai to attend.
I65. Fees.
166. Iiow paid.

ll2. Pleatiings in be filed together.

H3. When advznttage to be taken ofihilure to plead in time ; rule
XII. TRIAL

to plead.
ill. .Ai'Iida\'it with plea.
II3. l)iizttut'_\' plea. to he \'i'I'IIIO'tI.

llﬁ. Spmiﬁcatimt ufdefense, when to be given.
ll7. Gs-neml i\~ue may be pleaded with notice.
li3. Several pit-.ts.

li’.I. Notice of.<;>eeial matter by way of replication.
l‘.'0. Pi.tintiii't".nt_\' reply double.
l2i. (Ions-llidating actions and striking out counts.
‘II. Sinulvl/I‘.
l‘.‘.3. Copy of writing cu re-4 defective pleading.
l2l. Libel and slander.
I13. Rn-aciles ofconditiou.

I

I67.
I68.
I69.
I70.
I71.
I72.
I73.
I'.'~I.
I75.

\\'lII'I\' (‘.-\i'!~‘l'I TU HI-I TRIED.

By proviso.
I\'utice of.

\\'hen cause has slept four terms.
Cuuntertnaud.
short notice.
Filing of notice of.

2

I26.
I27.
I5.
1!).

Performance of conditions precedent.
E.\pr~.-s-. color and special traverses.
Right ofpri\'nte way.
Defect in or partial failure ofconsideration, recoupment

i-I0. Usury or fileigality under foreign statute.

I3l. Pleas pm: dun": 1 HI coulmmuu-I.
131 Pleatiings, defective or embarrassing, may be stricken out ;
ermr.
I33. Amended by section 3|-i.
lit. bet-olTto be consttleretl as cross-action.

mto('ERnt.\'os AT THE TRIAL

I76. issues of fact, triable by court, how.
I77. Iteferencc of matters ofat-count. I)issent and
I7-‘.'i. ltl-port signed by majority ofreferces sullicient
I79. Iieft-rence by _]il.\lICl.-‘ at
I5-0. Allowance to referee.
Iiil. .\'otice of tiling report

1.15.
iilﬁ.
117.
138.

Pieadings, how amended and served.
\'ari:tnt_‘e, when material.
When not material.
Court to amend.

I86.
I87.
I38.
I 89.
I ll).

140. Joiuder in.

til. Isxsue ofiaw to be ﬁrst determined.
i~lL. Notice ofargument of.
I43. Argument before one _|llSI.|C8.

circuit.

Calling piaiutiifnot necessary

Verdict not vitialed by bad counts.
\\~'rit ofiuquiry lu delmuc, ll‘ verdict omit price.
Verdict for part in ticlutue, not error.
Motions for new trial and in arrest ofjttdgtnent.
Argument on special \'ertIlt'l and demurrer to evidence.

IX. DEMURRER.
139. Special, abolished.

exceptions.

I52. Papers not under seal to be carried from bar byjury
1 .~s.'i. Jurors called as witnesses.
I.‘-H. Jury not compellable to tzlve general verdict
I85. Plaintiff to have no right to submit to non~snit afterjury
have retired.

VIII. AMENDMENT AND VARIANCE.

NOTICE OF TRIAL

Ann-uded by section 32.2.
.\ ntentietl by section 322.
‘.\’uu».~ult for neglect to bring cause to.

XIII. JUDG.\IEl\"I‘.
19I. Inspection oi’. not necessary.
19.3. What constitutes I'L'(’iII'(I.
I93. Judge may sign record though not in office when judgment
rendered.
191. Minutes evidence until record made.

X. Jl_'I)G.\IE.\"I‘ BY DEFAULT AND .-\SS§SMENT.OF
I).\M.\GES.

X I \’. EX ICCUTIONS.
I. I.\' UENERAL.

l4-i. Judgment by default or over frivolous plea.
l-l-3. Further time to plead.

146. Judgment not allowed on common counts only.
H7. Setting aside ofor opening; hen oi’.
I48. Vacating, ifeutered over plea.
149. .\w>ssntent oi‘ damages in umnnpstl.

150. In actions ex CUIllI'(l(‘/.ii, where mere matter ofcalculatlon.
151. Rule for writ of inquiry; rule for assessment; proceed
ings on.

I52. Notice oi‘ executing.
l-‘S3. Costs.

154. I-‘iuaijudgment.

I95.
I06.
I97.
I98.
I99.
‘.300.

Against whom to issue.

Indorsement on.
When returnable.
Issuable into several counties: sale.

In case ofaction against principal and surety.
Execution on second judgment not to issue till writoferror
is determined.
201. Issuable within twenty years without scire faclas.
202. Notice ifmore than six years have elapsed.
203. in case ofdeath of one of several parties plaintifff.
204. Death ofsole party plaintifff.
205. Administrator (If bonis non to have execution.
Death ofuue ofseveral parties defendant.

XI. DISCOVERY BEFORE TRIAL.
i. i'PO.\' l.\"l‘EBROGATOBiES.
156. Amended by section 341.

207. Bankruptcy ofparty plaintifff.
. Scire fucnts, service Of.

209. In case defendant be non-resident.
210. Sheriif to file statement oi‘ amount collected.

2. .\om.~<to.\' or EXECIFTION or PAPERS.
I56. Admission of execution of papers.

3. .I!\'SPi-2("l‘I0.\' or nooxs, rrrc.

157. Order for inspection of books.
1-38. Application for, to be by petition.

2

2|].
212.
213.
‘.’i4.
2|-5.

(‘APIAS All SA1‘ISF‘ACIE.\'|)ti!|.

(in. .m., when issuable.
Oath of non-resident, bow taken.
In case rupms ad 1 rs. be in force.
Contempt ofcourt.
Indorsement on cu. sn.

.

2532

PRACTICE.

.

238. Amended by section 319.

X V. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

269. When title to lauds comes in question.
1. NO1‘I(‘l'Z.

270.
271.
272.
273.

213. What notice ofspecial motions necessary
217. Service oi‘.
218. Publication ofln other states.

274. In actions of tort-when.
275. In stilts on same instrument only one bill of costs lobe

2. AFFIDAVITS.

219. Atlldavits, notice of taking.
210. Both parties may take under same rule.
221. Examination, how conducted.

allowed.
276. On scare facias.

277. Actions of assault, slander, &c.
275. Where one oi‘ several defendants is acquitted.

3. HABEAS (‘ORPUS CUM CAUSA.

222.
223.
22.4.
21 .
226.
227.

'3’

\\'iten suit removed by Imhea: corpus.
ln circuit court.
In actions cognizable in Justice's court.
But plaintifff may recover ifjudge certify.

‘Z79. On demurrer.
230. lfdemnrrer be overruled.

Hubcus mrpm, removal of suits by. Recognlzance.
Exception to hall and justification.
Courts always open for presentation and return of.
Not to be received after issue.
Nor nllcr cause remanded.
\Vhen to be disregarded.

231. State to recover, but not to pay.
252. Clerk to tax.

283. How to be classiﬁed.
284. Retaxation.

285. Printing.

223. Proceedings on return oi‘.

XVII. POWERS OF THE COURT OR A JUDGE.
‘I.

‘ZQB. Court may protect property or restraint its removal.

V F..\'U Ii‘

‘Z97. Court may appoint sergeant-at-arms.
25$. May order verdict to be taken by clerk.

220. Issue, where trlable; trial at bar.

230. in transitory actions.

239.
290.
291.
292..

231. Amended by section 329.
"

232.
'."l.l.
211.
2'13.

5. SECURITY FOR COSTS.

Amended by sections 332 and 348.
Deposit in llcu ofbond for.
.\'0tlce~st:1y ofproceedlngs.
Suretlcs tojustii‘y, exception to.

May consolidate actions and cross-actions.
Judge may make rules or orders in term or vacation.
But not in certain mses.
May grant rule to show cause why judgment may not he set
aside.

293. May make order for payment of money in case of disputes
'I

between execution creditors.

294. May grant rule to show cause why mandamus or quo war
ruulo should not issue.
295. Argument 01' motions before justices at chambers.

6. PAR'I‘I(.'ULAR!el OF DEMAND.

Zlii. Bill oi‘ particulars, when to be given.
217. Schedule may be annexed to pleadings, effect of.
2_lS. Fees for schedule.

296. Judge may refer motions to supreme court.
297. Courts may make rules.
298. Courts may make rules.

7. (.‘IR(.‘Ul'I‘ RECORD, P(B'I‘I~Z.\ AND JUDGSIEXT.

239. Circuit record, how made up and transmitted.

XVIII. CONSTRUCTION.
300. Singular number and masculine gender applicable to what.
301. Practice act not applicable to justice court act.

240. Postea.
241. Judgment on postea—notlce.
8.

242.
211.
211.
215.
216.

150. Rules oi‘ supreme court applicable to circuit courts.

XIX. SUPPLE.\[E."l‘S

BILI. OF EXCEPTIONS.

Bill ofexceptions.
Amended by section 334.
\Vhat it shall contain.
Return of.
Bill or exceptions, rule to sho\v cause, how far a waiver
of—rule may be special.

302 Sberlil‘ to keep record of return made to each writ served.
303. Statement oi’ judgments, when to be recorded by clerks.
What to contain.

301. When record to be made as now required by law.
305. \Vhen defendant. held to ball in action on contract, lawful

on trial to inquire into fact oi‘ fraud.
306. When venue improperly changed, costs oi‘ trial to be paid

9. CASE CERT] FI ED.

by county in which venue properly laid.
307. Taxation and certiﬁcation oi‘ costs.
308. In suit on bond oi‘ township collector, what claims may he

247. Case certiﬁed.
213. Clerk to ﬁle certiﬁcate and enter rule.

included.

2-19. Error assignable on.

309. Recognlzance not to bind goods or lands until names of
10. STENOG RAPHIC REPORTER.
persons taking same are entered by clerk in a hook, &c.

310. Partyrelbsing to answer interrogatories may be debarred
from prosecuting suit.

250. Stenographer.

231. Compensation of.
232. Fee taxable for.

311. Law judge oi‘ pleas may practice in other courts.
312. Amended by section 339.

ll. SUITS BY COMMON’ IXFORMER3.

253. In penal actions, time of instituting to be noted.

313. Rcpenler.
31-1. Frivolous pleas or demurrer or sham pleas may bc-struck

234. Name and title to be lndorsed on process.
23'». General issue pleadable.
2'10. Recovery by covin no bar.

out on notice.
315. Adverse party may

237. Prosecutor, when liable for proportion ofpenalty.

demurrer.
316. Amendment of pleading dernurred to, terms.

‘.333. \Vhen prosecutor to pay costs.

317. Notice of motion to strike out pleading, what to contain.

require

specification

oi‘ cause of

239. In what Cases six preceding sections applicable.
318. Repeater.
319. when costs not recoverable in supreme court. Exception.
320. Declaration may be ﬁled and copy served at time oi‘ l~<ut'
of summons or may be annexed to summons. Return

12. l:1.\'Cl-11"I‘lO.\'S TO JUDGES.

260. J udgcs, when not to sit.
‘.261. When not to strikejnry.
2 .3. Challenges, how to be tried.

ofsherlff.
321. Amended by section 331.

114.3. Not to act as clerk, attorney or counselor.
2131. Not disqualified because a taxpayer.

322. Cause to be tried at next term after issue joined.
may be given for day in term.

XVI. COSTS.
1. 3. \\’hcn recoverable by plaintifff.

.\'otl¢P

323. What defendant may plead to replication.
321. Suit may be instituted against unincorporated associations
I
82.5. Execution may issue upon judgment as against corlW"*'

‘.1113. By dei'cud-ant.

.

267. On n1'1"e.~ltni'judg1ne11t.

lions.

PRACTICE.
126. Action not to affect personal liability of members.
I27. Act not to give such axsociations other powers or liabilities

of corporations.
Q. New trial maybe granted after expiration of term.
329. Rule to show cause why venue should not be changed may

‘.2533

863. Judgments against non-residents, ttc.
80-l. How to revive and reinstate action or suit, when failure to

file pleadings, &c., is caused by neglect. &c., by attorney.
36$. Repeater.

366. Notice of appeal by private corporations, how made.

be granted in vacation.

3!). Municipal corporations not to file affidavit with plea or

XX. MISCELLANEOUS ACTS.

demurrer.

331. Writ of cerllnrml in assessment for taxes not allowed un~
less applied for within nine years from date of tax sale.

387. Plaintiff‘ to recover damages in assizes, &c.
368. Poor persons to have process gratis.

$2. Amended by section 3-l8.
333. When bill ofexceptions to be sealed, when time for prepara

369. Courts to assign them counsel, ttc.

tion is granted.
34. [Tpon death ofjudtze \\ ithout having sealed exceptions,

cause may he heard on exceptions agreed on.
33'). In actions on contract, ufildavit of merits to he ﬂied within

ten days from service of declaration.
316. Notice to be inriorsed upon copy of declaration.
337. Copy of declaration may beserved at the time of the service
-3 of the sumtuotts.
Wt. Repeater.
N9. When execution may be sued out against realand personal

estate of deceased party.
341. Assignee of bills and writings may sue in his own name.
allowing set-ofi'~t, ¢l‘.'c.

Q

Mi. Written interrogatories may be served on opposite party.
342. Action may be bronghtagainstunincorporated company or
8.\§OCl8.l.i0ll united for btl'~'lilP$! purposes.
343. Executions may issue as against corporations.
314. Personal liability of members not affected.
H5. .\'o powers or liabilities of corporations given except as
herein set out.
346. Compensation of sergeant-at-arms.

317. Repeater.
34$. I\'on-resident plaintifff to give security for costs by bond.
349. if plaiutifi‘ is ignorant of name of defendant, he may desig~
nate him in the summons by a fictitious name.
350. When name becomes known, proceedings already taken to
3 be amended.
331. Summons, how served and published.

352. To extend to practice in courts for the trial ofsmali causes.
331. Repeater.
33L Circuit court iudges in counties of the first class may fix

salary of stenographers.
355. Clerks of circuit courts to sign posteas when the judge who

370. Not compelled to pay costs.
37i. Distribution of proceeds of sale of lands paid into court.
372. VVhen proceeds of real estate sold or taken upon compen
sation may be paid into court of chancery.
373. When person a ward of court.
37 . Court of chanoery may make rules to carry act into effect.

375. Repeater.
376. Proceedings

against

non-resident

defendants

in

local

actions.
377. Repeater.

378. When taxpayer may institute action on behaifofcounty or
township.
379. When taxpayer may intervene in action brought against

township or county.
380. Ofiit-era‘ returns of writs not to be recorded.
3-ail. Review of conviction and judgments for contempt by the
supreme or prerogative court.
382. Conviction and judgment on petition to be certified to

supreme or prerogative court. Bond.
383. Partner of law judge not to practice in court where law
judge presides.
384. Penalty.

38$. How notice to be served when no provision is made by law
for giving or serving such notice.
336. Notice heretofore given under order of court legalized.
387. Who may appear and prosecute actions.
388. Amended by section 394.

389. Writ of attachment issued under this act to bind property
from the time it is delivered to sheriff, tee.
390. Issuing of writ the beginning of the action. No summons
necessary.
391. Special execution to issue upon recovery ofjndgment.
392. Upon giving bond property may be released.
393. Supreme court to make rules and regulations to carry out

360. Amended by section 363.

provisions of act.
394. In all causes in which a cnpias ad responrlnlrlurn may issue,
in an action upon contract, a writ of aunt-inuent may be
atvarded.
395. Testimony taken before supreme court commissioners, <tc.,
stenographicaily, to have same force and etfect as if
written in ionghand and signed by the witnesses.

851. Action,

396 \Vomen may practice law.

tried the case has died.

353. Amended by sections :t'>8 and 304.
357. When afiitlavit of merits filed, affidavit to plea or demurrer
not necessary.
338. Amended by section .'it‘~l.
339. Amended by section 362.
how brought against heirs and devisees when

creditor unable to ascertain who are all the heirs and

devisees or whether all are alive or dead, ttc.
3:5; Proceedings in case of non-residence of heirs and devlsees.

397. service of mesne process in actions er delicto against non
resldeuts, &c.

'EIOIJ.OV}l<I

T895
‘H ‘s '0‘.-‘ii
‘s»<.~
'96l fisrr
‘ism
‘out. ‘ios
‘ism
I88

'09:; ‘I96 ‘i.-iii; ‘iui;
‘Z366

‘J "I ‘Li--<1 '1! '99
..

‘msi ‘ii '62-I

..
..

'.i.ii:'<1‘i<.-si
‘i.-<.-si "ii T-Of

..

‘H.-si ‘d 'i:~_':.

..
..

“.".‘>-‘I "d ‘W;
‘i-U0
‘:2-st ‘(I 'iisi

n

.‘\‘-xi» ‘ll '9Ul

..
..

‘ism ‘ii ‘2'.|'.'.
‘rii:
'1'-9*‘! ‘ii '-.1;

..

'l.'9HI ‘ii ‘oi

..

‘sat
‘£‘9>¢i ‘<1 ‘*.iz..'.
'.'.&N

'lli<-»

»

..

‘Lust '11
‘mi
‘mist "ii
'U‘.IT-I
‘o.'~'i ‘ii

‘or.
":0
‘:i;ii
'9is.‘.i
‘iii:

iv

.l.l."I

'1 iii‘:

vv
n

‘I-1*‘ ld I-'.lf
llllil ‘d '99

..

'1 'sKeu1o';i¢iV
[IV 109 Oil 9'.lB[t138.I Gqil 9-’.)l'.1OB.ICI Q0 8’.i.ITlOO _]IO ‘MEI
DO.\OJ(l(lY—UO[SlA3H qonijq ‘,5; 1-Lg]

‘.~.\'.iii.ioi1V -1.l‘B(l
‘snort .i'iiiii Jirnrlilii

“I ii:ii_i, .\i1:i-1i:-s.\'.iii.ioiii: piii: s.io1i.)iios iii ‘.f.iaaii-i:ii.) S.I€)ll‘1.lU(l iii .iioii1

ssoiiisiiii sir SA.-Hl.I()i]‘l} piii; ‘sioiioiios “.\"i:iii iii .iioii1 iliiis.i.ni'i.ii:il ‘dllliill .i1:addi;

an -iians
NI "I '*_*.'~'l ‘ii 'i¢.~'<'.
2 ‘.1

piii: o1ii:ioso.id .io i»im_i.ii> .\'iii; iioiimz iii .fiii: _io_q.iiiim Sill} -;_m:1s (1),

'3 iiuiii, .\\‘l}i-1!?-‘.~‘.l'\)ll.l()ﬁll ‘iiuiis .io_i .'\'iii: ‘map piiiiiiioii .io ‘sor‘i:iiii:i» oii
Xujiq -iii pans su
.miii0 '.\‘llU&i.>il
‘Ui)15|.\$i}[

aiiiuii 01 .»ii imiis o.ii»_i.iii .\'ui: _io Olil si.iiio.) _io siiiq .)1i:~is iii miii ‘_1.mu1;iii pm;

.\'ii oiiti .iiiii:s S,\'i).)i).lil iillil iii.io_i _io iioii.')ir si: .ioii'_io suoszioil qoii .?'iii<iii s.\'.)ii.ioiii;
.).I1! ;iiiii:ii oi .iii 'iniis .\'iii: mid _io .>f»\iii.\i.iil .io iioiiiliiioxo oi niii .\'.ii;.i1iioo
'.T3iiii)IlH1>-li1i.\\1(_ill

-8 liiiiu oii 1iiir.i.ii:.i\ ‘.\'.>ii.ioi:1i:_io .io .\'do.> '_ioo.i.>iiti imoii mi imiii iii -fiii:
-.lUil\'_]iI1lll2.l.l\.’_\_\
‘.\-ii: vN'i(i1ll-Iii“
'l"_‘ll¥

1il.i.>x.>*iioi1.>1: iii .~.»<i:.; iii:\iii.TIiiiii'_in .\'ii ii,oi;<s.i_iii<».) iii siioiim: ioii -mo.)
imoiioui .\'ii '.<<.\.i<~.iil
‘=5. ii:ii\i, .\iii: .\-i'll.lHl\,iI 8.\(1li.\\ oiiiirii iii.-iis ~)(i l)-)f~'.l(’iii[li iio .\iii: siioiuuiiis .io
si.-i_ili:.> iii: 'iiiiii>ii.\i»iioils.i.i 'iii:iis iio iuii:iii.ii> iii "I?'iiiii.i.u .ii)i:iii .\'ii .io no _iii:zi-vi
-\'iii:_io 'iiai:iiii.i_i-iii n.ii:i.'>.wi» iiiii\iii.i<»_i iii ‘.T'iii1i.i.\\ .i.iiii.iii.i\ ii.iiis 1I_.i.\\ si:ii
ll-Hjiii ii-llI.\T-'i .\'ii iiiiii .io .\'ii i)$il,’iiilll“.\‘ii.iiiii1iil75ili oiii -muiil _ii) ;iii1_io.iiiofii:
t_iiiiiiii:i<l i-iii: _ii ii.iii< .\'->ii.io1ii: iii:ii.~< o.ii:in.>i> iuiii -vii 1i.l-\\ sun 1i)ll i>.iiis.-i

‘J 'I “."_-l 11 ‘~~.'.
2 Us
.i'-iii.ioiiy oi
\l.lll[-)1“) imhl ilallil:

'.l.\“_lIi'.lll1!|il_}U

"iiI 1 'l

.\'<i_ ‘iiiiii .io .\'<i siii .l(l‘.\'i',.Ii>Ii1lIi! iiiriis a.~ii_i.i.i 01 -'7.l\!i.“)Oi) Iiiil n.n:i<l ‘in aimiii:

_io niii ii.iii1“i'i1ii{itiil oii .i-irii.iii_i s.i‘.iii_ii.».mo.iil ]il3li~I mi ii.w.\ii:1 iii aiii i1iii1.)l2
gi.uii;i.\i (1/)"i.ii:<>.>.iiii_i->.i.\i.-ii

'9 ii:;i,i,

.\‘,,i.ii.i,1 .'i'_i -iiziu
r.~i',.m.iiI '
‘if .\ 'i;.'i‘_ii .\'iii: '.ioi.=<i:iii».> .ioii.>ii-is .io iilllih.\\lIi'1l:'.\.il|l.lUiii: mi _;<»_\,'iiii?'

~..>_i.»::_i.lii:iii

iii

-‘»Ii1_ii)_\.I|i! ‘.\].IHii.) mi iilZ.'i~ mi iiiil inn _ii> mi; 'iiii.i iiiii: _i.i_\.iii

.i-ii_ii: ..~i i>.iiiiiii.i-iil iii .i.iii.»i:_iil si: i: ‘.ii.i.i~iiiiii.> ‘,Hl’ii.’)ii1'.\' ‘_\\1Ii-112-.\'-lll.l()'1ii!.l()

.~.<.iii1i: .>ii iii:ii< llilliiiii i: M911 *.i.~.ii-tiii iilili .i:i iiiurli: imiio.iii.i iii niiii iii.ii»_i
in '.\\l'-i
iuiiii, ll-‘iii.\\ .\'iii: .ii-1'_-ii'.i<'i>' .l<i .(.iii.ii»i1i: iiiiiisf aiii -Ii) .i.\iiiii.i.I {4iIi1_ii)_}l1i)
.i_i.iii_\\ .lH1l.)i|i|_ J0
il|ll|‘ill .\' ‘J r~\~i' in

'.\iiIi~< .lii

‘Ln!

ii-: .\'.m_i< iiuiis ilii i~.iii.ii:,\i (.1 1lIii~il-.li.' .i.»ii1i-iii: iii siii i)lIU"iil.‘.i1.\‘ _ii n1iilI_i(‘lI_
<-i> -l>'.l~>.\ii’lI."i|I_1i)\ .\'i.ii:il .\'i:iii i>.>.».i<>.iil iii 'lliiii.J\?iili1
-L iuiiii, _ii .\'iii: .IH}',.):ii>*~' .io .\ii:i-;i:-.\'..ii.ioiii: iiuiis '1.).\i.T~i)ll .io amziiiriiisiiii

inqf

miv "pail"

-'ii'ii=i:~-\'-»iI=~=1v
_lii_[ ll )_2'- 'i_\ HP,»

-Hi

iitil

iiiii

_ii> ciii ‘iiini Jiii

l[(\~._].‘iil .l(iI 'iiii‘)ii.\\ Oli

s‘i:-\\ Jllli-');i\'I§. _i(;

_\'iii: .i.<iii:.i Iii ii.iiii.\\ mi iiiriis mi 'ii.>.\'i;i:liii.i .iii iiiziis (iii (Jiiillii .l(ii iii: -iiiirii
s-1.7.: i)-llliiiisll“ .\'ii siii ‘iii-‘-iii» iii .~ii ii.i,i.>_\i'-.).i.i _\'ii iiniim: _ii'> .<<i:il>".i.ii no ,»ii1

1.3.1‘!

‘.i_\iii ".-].\().ll|1i_\\
l|Il:\\'i{‘ .iiiii1si-ii.)
[mill J.li>_[-N] -llJ.I.\'~l
‘H1111

"WI '12

-8 ;ii:ii_i, .\.i-no '.\\l3i-ill-.\iil{.l(i1ill .>.io_i-iii .iii s\)l1‘.v'Si 'iioiiim.»xo iimis aiii niii
ii.ixi'-ii iiiii _io .lH‘.<1.\i"O i: .\'ili.~.> '_i<».i.imii iii iiiii oniiiii _io mii }i.lili.) _io oiii, 1.llli'if)
iiio ‘in ii.>iii.\i aiii .iiiii:.< ~.~'i oi :.~.ii~~i piii: _ii nii iii:_i os oq oi) Oli iii:iis i;.ii.io_i

(:1, ii-»ii_\\ .i|.o .i..; i.i\i; shfis .iii_i illu 'iii.iii iii.\\.\‘ii.ii.iiiiii: mi
~iiii.~..-id ii H1 i\.| .-'i1ii-L} .i|i|i1'Ii.“.is' in iii: .,"i llll '\_|.|(‘l|| .111/1|./I"
"'}
"'
" I .\ '/' '/"’l '~ \' D _~.‘.»ii.ii-i;i'ii':_ii»1.ii"ii'.i» .\\‘i’l-P17
ll i-i||i':Il IH'l1l.‘.l Jlil ii Ii\l\v‘,l\l1Q\\ ‘ 5' i;1l i ll\'.) {iii
1!.|H_I In
-'.li‘|l|~! i- ~.\- ‘t'i ii|ll|,\]lll.lv‘.liUl|‘|lf"llq~ |Ill|1\n||';‘iIli,"i -iimi
. :~'*.
lll
.|"-“"l"'i.l.
i'~"'-l.r\ ‘.\ §' ‘um-n ii i '1 ‘.i.i
i. -'- |l'\ um
.

I"/I '.\

‘ll l|~|:ll‘| Z-9.iIll I‘ i l ii Ill!‘ _\'|i Ill ~.» ii-.: _.-_\.i|.i
»»¢I§'

'\

.1-if

-I

.'~i
lllﬂlll

Iil

\[lil

"|i.1~

'1’!

'4
""""l \
'”"‘.'.l ill '-.1 \‘iv
' V’
1| ~'.l
_'
-Ni I ii|1n.i|.\- {ii ll,)\' ‘iii i iili ,1-.i,ii-».)i:~~
. I
.1 Hi -iii Us \.~ ‘ii
JvlI'1}[ '\ 1 u,1"' 'i- ,"_[ i_i
‘,'i
mi i,.|.i vi ,_-i:
|' ii\\ .-i. Ii‘! I‘ *-\i"
I--'-ii~"~.\ .i iiU1. ,..i,|
il A‘. ii l~. . i
.-. . iiin _|¢)| ~..‘iJ'_\J1q vi?
~i'ii Ni i» ii'i

) iui I I i ' s.» ,1
T"l\'[ , -i

‘i-|\|Illi'>.)

'\|_lr,7

H

'\

'.i""""'aii ui ti ‘Iii’!

iqi .io_.[ poiiioiii _io ﬁll“)-)J.)(|.lLl .>.i-iii.“ -ill] p.10.)-).lJU.\'dIlJ()\1'l~!
Milli-vi) ,'.‘lIl .-ii \i ‘.\‘-|iiJHiii:.iiii dds (‘swim/fi~mi' xiii” ‘$133 .,u»[f
"1 P "-I /' *~' '"'H*' l 'i"Z 't~'.'I'- I""""-"II '-\ l'.~"".'l"'.\‘ it?-‘-'.l
.l')'\1.iJi.“.iII]i.l4IJ-I.l\}ii_{iiiii}|\!.li|ii I\'i_|-Ll ~ Hi \IlI]-*1!‘-l\ 5‘]!;.‘0|i.‘|

.i.ni-i 1» I_l u:.»i»|~ '.: .iiii .1-nip» <1 .\]ll .\'i.iii \i:ii -- 1' “Ii‘l\\,\1|‘ll.l
.i~'n'.> {Iiu .\'1iiii.-as .liI ~.,-Iv.) |>"l4Il|~4' inii -vii ‘i--iiii -\,.‘v.»,'n]f
4|’ Hi; ‘Inn’ i '_l»|/I ,__,_
-I"
-iii_\i‘1<1ulis--.i|iiiii'iimi»ii.ilq zmdiini
ji) .-ii] .~:_iii"iiii-ii-iii niiili iii ‘if!-viii
|i,'_ii Ill’ Ii '_\ _,’mn/,i,1|.[f .",.\'
_ii \_1,l]l||lZiil ,\'.iii_ir;iii: -)\li_)-H ll] .,iii,._i\,'i.i<iii
"I'*"-‘I
ll
'-'.l
'i\i'
iil .i.ii 'u9iHHillill) JH iii Tiiiii giiliii iii ii ~i_ii -i|il{[l'_| _~]i|{;i|lllH _u3.,i

'i]‘\lli viii ")t\I'|]l\\Il(\i1.)I!-NilIlI.I-\i|}\H_lfiiIii."m.)ii.lilii1f.i_i_ii:|.i‘iii
.\_\1‘.ii Ill) niii ']Hii\J
'1/[

l’R.ACTlCE.

2535

ten dollars to the part_\' aggrievetl, to he re(.:o\'ered by action of debt, with
costs.

9. That when any sulit-.itt>1' or Itll.()l'llt"\'-Ill-l:'lW shall ret.-eive the costs
act-1'tiiiig on any suit, he shall, if reqniretl l)_\' the p:u'tty at the time of pay

ment 01' at any time within six nn»nth.~= :tt'tt-rwartls, (ll‘:1\\' up 1t1l(_l (l('ll\'L'l‘
the hill of p:u'ticnl:u's_ with :i ret-eipt to the part_\' 1)ayi|i;_»; or who shall have
puitl the sntne; and it‘ he l':iil so tu tlo he shall tin-l'eit ten tlOll2ll'S to the

Particulars of
costs to be
deliver‘;-d.
Ih., Q 8.

p:n't:_\_' :1§_'§_;1'ie\'e(l, to he re(:u\'e1'etl h_\' uetiitm oftlt-ht, with <_-.t».~.t's.
10. 'l'h:it; it‘ :ll1_\' solicitor 01' attnt'ne_\'-.tt-l:i\\' shall (3ll:Ll'§J[t‘ in his hill of P""““Y "°'"'°g‘"

('('>.~‘lS t"m' services nut. :i<-tu:\ll_\' (lune. 01‘ for S('t‘\'lt'£‘S not t'tllt)\\'utl h_\' law, or
Sllflll [:tl\'t' :'ni.y _g{1"e:ttel' fee or l't'\\':ll'll l'n1':\n_\' st-i'\'iee h_\' llllll tlune than is 01'

clmrges.

Ih., Q 9.

Sh-‘Ill he :tll<>\\'e<l h_\' l:\\\'. he .~th:1ll |m_\' to the 1»:irt_\' 11§_*'f_'l'lt:\'('ll thirt._\" tlt,»ll:u's,
U) he l'l‘(‘*l\'t'l't.'Il ll)‘ €l('lInl| (ll. tlt-lit, with enslﬁ. (Ir)

11. 'l'h:tt the |H'll!llllt'S lIl('lIll()lll'tl in the three }ll‘0('l‘(lll]g' seetiuns of‘ this
act Hlltlll he sllt'tl tin‘ \\ ithin une _\'e:u' :tl'tt-i" the utl'ense etmunittetl, antl not

Lhnltutlon ofsulta
fur penalties.

Ih., Q 1U.

:it'tt~1'.

12. '|‘h:it no .sulieitur hr 2IllUl‘Ilt‘_\' sh.-ill etnnnn-nee 01' maintain any suit for

the I‘t‘(‘t)\'('1'_\' of any t'ee.<, t-lt;ti-gt-s ttr tll.\'lllll“:-‘~t‘lll('lll.\'. in equity ul‘ at law,.
agaitist his client ()l' lt"_I2ll l't'ill't'.\t'2ll2lll\'L‘. until :\t'tet' sneh St)ll('ll()l‘ or
:tttnrnt~_y .~hall h:1\'t- tlt-liu-it-tl ltl stteli t-lit-nt HI‘ his rt-p|'e.<ent:ttive. or left

TtlX0(l bill of costs
furn'n~hetl before
suit.
Ih., Q ll.

fur him at. his <l\\'ellin_'_:-lnnt.~t- t)l' l:|.~t plnee et' uhntle, :1 e<>p_\' <»t' the tuxetl
hill til’ sneh Ii-es. Cll2ll"_'_'t'h‘ nntl tli<l»|tt".~"etttt-tits. (/1)

13. 'l‘h.-it. llu ]rl‘:\('ll('lll_$_I :tttttt"ne_\' til’ the et»nt"t.-' tit‘ the state .=-lntil he ]>e1'- *““‘"""-"°‘""""‘
inittt-tl ill l>t~t'nlllt' snrt-ty, mt ;tn_\' htnnl ;*i\*en :t.~ ~eenrit_\' l'<>t't-<>.<t.~1.ttt»1'upon in-<'ul11P :'<uret_\' on
any rt-|»le\'in lmntl, nut‘ :tH_\' lmntl 1."i\'tn itiultlfllllil(‘t‘l'il(1l':lI'l ti» :1 _]tt>'tiee 01'
the ]I(':l('t'. or :tn_\' t-mill <>t' eutntn-»n ||lt:t~': nntl :tn_\' f~ll('ll linlltl ~i;__~"tn~tl h_y

eertnin hnntls.
110'» i~.luu.

an)’ 1n':tr-tit-i|t_<__{ :tilHl'llt‘_\' :i~' ~'tt|'<-t_\". -ll.‘tll he heltl ti» he in.<ntli<-ient.

14. 'l‘h:1t nu :t<ltni~~it»n-,et»n>t-1tt< l\I' ;t_'_[t't-t-int-|tt.<_ ]]|;1(l(* nttl ul' e.>n1-1 hy
the p:tt'tit-~'_ or their ztlturtn-\ .~ (ll' et.t:n~t~ltn'-_ \\ ith l'l'.\]ll‘(‘lt inilit'('t)l1tlttt'llt!g
of any .<nit..~h:\ll he lIll\'l‘lt Ittitive <>t' h_\' the ('Iilll'l_ nnh-~i< the .\:llH1' Slittll
lmve ht-en l'('lllt('lll ti» \‘-l'lllll‘_'.:llt\l .\lll‘"~"l'lli('tl h_\' the pt-1\t>i|.~' 1n:tltin_;" the

A ':r»-e1nent.~= out
0t‘1:-inrt tu he in
\\'ritlnL_'.
{t'\ l>h)ll.

.Q{lI1l(‘.(f')

II. ltov: to prtmccute and defend.
15. 'l'l1:tt,e\'er_\' |'\‘l'.\i1)ll tit" hill .-t_'e nntl .~t»-tn~l in-.-nt~=1'_\' (1/l m:t_\' itltlttﬂl‘ nntl
1n'u<tet.tt- t-2' (it‘ll'll'l :tn_\' l\t'll<)ll lll :tn_\' ul' t:n- ('->llll\' ul' tl.i- .<t:tte, in |te|'.-tnt

\\'hu l|l2\_\' Qlte and
|Io'o'2t1 ll] 1"‘.-ull
or h_\' all i|'n0_\'.

1:. \. ‘."..“..t,

ur ll_\ hi~ =-ilit'itt>1' ll|t'l11lll("'l'_\' wt‘:11t<»1'l|.-_\-:tt-l't'.\'.
1.6. Illl-Ht
ll() ]n'I'>~tl.,t‘\¢'\'|il llt lti~ tiwn t-:|.~-- ()l° in lite (':l\t_‘ <>i' an inlitnt,
5

hail he tit-1-tnittt ti ti» :1,-1-int‘ illttl |-t'<»~et-t'.tt- tn‘ tlt~‘.'-t-nil ;tn_\ netiun in tlll_\' nl'

1.

Fur ulliel‘ pet‘.-sons,
mil)’ {~1ull(‘ll.ul"5 Ltlld
tlti0l‘ht')'h.

l l-1

snitl ('()ll|i.-'. hut _~n--n :l- is 51 ll"t'll.~l"l .\Hll('ll,(1l' tn" tlllt>l'llt'_\'-ill-l:l\\'_ who j_t;_,;';_
i.\'t-e St ('. 3}-‘Vi,
shall lit‘ lllHlt'l' the tillt't'llHll til’ the (’U’\ll'l, lll \\lllt'll he :tt't.~‘.
1,u.~' _

1'7. Tlltlt il' the !lt'llHI| he ]t'~~"et'tttt-tl h_\' the |>l:tihlitl'itl]>et's<)l1.tlt'-ti the
sntntnt-n-, ()l' ~':t[>l:'\' :t<l n.~ttt»titl~. n~htnt_ .\‘lI.‘lll he lll'l()l‘w‘t'(l nith :1 lllt'lttHt':tli~

llttlt-X '~¢*!1‘|l'llt OD
\\ I'll. if plnlttlllr

hilt-5 in M-1'\u!1.

tintn. ('X])l't'~.~lll_'_" that lllt .~;tntt- lt'l.< llt't'll .<tn*tl nut h_\'tln-1>l:tintill' in ]lL*l‘~'~)ll. t‘. 1..
:( :s.
and ltH'llilnltlllf__" the ]Il2l('t' tit hi.» :tl...tit-.
1
'\[;l|

hill

-I l

'1'

Pa
.

I

Tl‘

V.

'~l

'

4'

a

'
\i'

.

li IV

. |;'-.~

I

'
.i‘t.L. 1.

. .1.

ll

\\.itn "|\'* - ul' the Inn iii".

. . nu" I l0‘\l in mn

I |' t..t|| 1-\u

~.\t- Ill 1.i.

1

|

\'|'ll-1'11-.

r.-.'

‘
l

'

I

"\

"‘!i'

"_~ :.. _,

~(

'

"

.

l|iUl,‘.L'lI'

\n'\'

-iii.

I

l

l

"l'l\t-I‘

I

\.1.uu_,:,

'»~Z

-l;'~"
|\

..
I

‘ll,

l'

_ \

'* \. 4 '1
II

\"'rl

'

1 "

‘I (-.'.

".-'3'»

'11. ‘v. .“ -l

1;

’
1;.

-'t'¢” \. 1.3/I//,
"I.,\'$

ll. I--J,

.\'u-r~'» v

I."_m ' .1

1-~.'»-3,1». '2“,

I‘

J.

~t~l.

||' .1 I :1 5'.‘ lI'..it ttl-[H
.' ll:>1| t,
|| - H
luv l.t In l‘t“ it,
nu
ta
.<l Iii‘ ‘\t t‘iv-ml
|' l1tl‘I'|'|l"t' :1 t Ill 'Ii l|.=
lilll,
t -~--I ll it-in in. _. I--l u~~ I I _\ 1 ~ .|l
I» I‘. ur |_\ 1.‘-"tn ll tn hlke

ll-‘l~.l lllnu ll‘-‘I-|t.~. I '
.'\l~l.l\u\'|'.i'\'I
_
pt‘ ~HHnilt||
~ t
l I t :ui t~n~n.-I le t.--.1 .t I. .1 t .~ £2 t~
I ». '|l.t-tml Ill
l. <1 t. t- ll -.\|. -1 ht 'n |.- I t-_
:-.<' 1.. I‘. tin -~h m'n|iL
i-lkunl.-\' "'l‘llllt4l.lt'.'\1' \\.
-.\t‘|lt\\\|ul'..“»t
-|’t.t|H|I"l',
;~_||tl l ‘ll 1 |i1t~|'t-1| In he l.i'\ A|i|1l|| 1' ‘I It
I»,
'l in '_' t,||tl|.in

1-It :1 | ~.2t_\'iit-"1|nL:t|it,tl:<"..tiwt .1 1'-.i..t I .t.l- ‘tin Ml. \\.|~ tilt-ti,
ll"'\’n Y. It u

',\|'. 1'.‘ '.:\

HI. ltlttuw ..u'l l' . . \l
R.-iml '~'.v by ll: Ir ".1" it't~. ﬂur
.w.'n».u-r v. 1.‘ ». '1 1- /.,.; ('. I 4 .. 4 \. .\ l1Y'l ti’--~l in the n.tn.e
0| an i'lim“ h_\-' n \~~2ut|s tit. ~t_\".in.: h|.n~ ll ht r llt'.\l l'rttn-l,

;- 'l

ll.l;ii~tilHll ttntntl, It-tr

11utl10r"a.~;et1 h_\' the (‘ulttl In file 1: e
\\-ill he <it~'|ni~.-~t-tl Uil in-.ti~n 1|‘
lunatic l\:z\in; an inter -~l in the
p;i|t_y_ Ilul‘I'v.wl|. \'. 1."/Hvtn -l ll}. /'1.
|m|,.[ {1p|:(';lI' heﬁne the e-»'.rL in

not npgmintetl her t.lI.‘.(l .n

I-i.l lt\ her n--\t l't~it-nil,
the tlt-ti-titiutlt. I". A
cw-. n|u~t he ltnfile it
('. 1'. ‘_’\t_',‘."'T. All l1ll'>l
|wr~<>n
ll. htnnt-c 1n.i_\'

app:-.~'|,r

hy

attorney,

('~tvn,'t1,tw1i'.~r

('"r\r, >111,

19.

A

lnn.tt:e

can ~'ne only hy his cmninittee or :,'n;u'tlinn, \\h'> l~' |'e~|\<m
sifile fur the ctiutltu-L 0|‘ the suit, or h_\' the HUIIl'lu'}'-:\’lt1'l‘¢tl
or next friend, \\ll('l'l3 the inn H ~15 of the |.'n..i-ttnni ct-.t_~h

~l| nt.l he ln..uI' 1+. 1>.'tt{_\' lu tl|.*>ti:'.. .v-u‘l.'t V .\'r|r¢/1,1] 4.1"}.
'-I .110. A lttelv rt|'|n.:t-rlntmt..h~t~|| llilhl(‘,1]|],l|l1l|)l)l'H|'l})l'
lit r. l."~/"11"/.' \. l'-tn I-1")"/ul, 5 1. 1",‘. Hr. -1- 1
‘I ht‘ (‘l:l|lll|Ull
l.l\\‘ rule th.t'_ lnn.itn~< ;~h-nthl tit-it-nil i.i tt.~~ .~.-inn-n1-mnteras
utln-r ;\~~r\ ms, h.t.~t I-t~--n at-ttiptetl in lllis stnti-.
Hm 1lm'n V.
I/¢1nn,lU l'r. '.'I\T. The pmper ])lH1".lt t- i\ h_\' rule of (‘hurt for
ll|t'il|\!|(llll[l'Il|'llLOfllllil'l‘ll'lll‘Y,U.iltI'll >!il'}'iit-*llu~£IIl:1l‘tllﬂll0r
sneli 1\|)1)ll(‘;l.llUlI. In snsli t'tt-t- the i-tnu't\\||l itjlilnlllt theat
tur|n~_v_ 1!». In l‘.ll;l(‘lHltt'l1lHL"2lllt\l tltt-estnteul :1 l\|Illlll(‘, he
llt,'i"l Hui,t1[)])I':I.l':uitl he (lt*l1'I11l\'Il h_\' lnﬁ !H'\l friend.
ll'r!n‘1' V.
H1: -"1n_Ir, 3 I‘. E. '-'1'. 411. \\'ln-re the attnnn-_\' 01' B lunatic
("‘;1~l'.‘i to net. the nutiee tn .<nh~ t itnte nzwtln-1' mlurney must be
B|_‘l'\'t'(l lllltlll his CUll1llllll~'-‘. 1): ll \'. 1"!-£_//rr, Spen. 115.

2536

PRACTICE.

Inihnis, how to
prosecute and
defend.
R. S. 9%, Q 5.
Amended.

18. That if an infant be entitled to any action, or if an action be brought
against him, his guardian duly appointed by competent authority, or spe
cially admitted for that purpose, shall be permitted to prosecute or defend
for him; but in no case shall the proceedings be deferred or stayed until

the infant arrives at full age. (a)
III. Parties.

19. [Amended by Sec. 340, post]
Assignment in
writing suﬂlclenf.
P. L. 1887, p. 486.
In case of death
of asslgnor.
P. L. 1856, p. 288,
I 22.

20. That the assignment of any sealed instrument by writing not under
seal, shall be as valid and effectual, both at law and in equity, as if made

by writing under seal. (b)
21. That the assignee for a valuable consideration of any chose in action,
heretofore or hereafter assigned, if the assignor be dead, may sue for and
recover the same in his own name; and the defendant in any such action
may set up and avail himself of any defense thereto, arising before he shall
have received due notice of such assignment, in the same manner, and

with the like effect, as if the assignor had been living, and the action had
been brought in his name. (c)
Actions by hus
band and wife.
Ib., I 13.

Proviso.

Acilon not to
abate by reason
of marriage of
female.

P. L. 1869, p. 1152;;

Married woman
living separate

may sue for injury
to her person or
reputation.

P. L. 1867, p. 969.
Amended.

22. That in any action by a husband and his wife for an injury done to
the wife, in respect of which she is necessarily joined as co-plaintifff, it shall
be lawful for the husband to add thereto claims in his own right arising
ex delicto, and separate actions brought in respect to such claims may, by
order of the court, or a judge, be consolidated; provided, that in case of
the death of either plaintifff, such suit shall abate only so far as relates to
the cause or causes of action, if any, which do not survive. (d)
23. That no action now pending or hereafter to be brought in any court
of record in this state, wherein a female is or may be a party, shall abate,

by reason of the marriage of such female after suit brought; but the action
shall proceed to ﬁnal judgment in the name of such female as plaintiﬁ‘ or
complainant, or as defendant, as the case may be, notwithstanding such
marriage.
24. That any married woman, living separate from her husband, may
bring suit in her own name for the recovery of damages for any injury
done to her person or reputation; and it shall not be lawful for the husband
of such married woman to control, discontinue, release or in any way inter

fere with such action, biit the same shall proceed and be under the control
and direction of said married woman, as if she were a feme sole.

Execuwrs or
administrators
considered as one
person.

R. S. 350, 26.
Amended.

25. That in actions against several executors or adininistrators, all the
same executors or administrators shall be considered as one person, repre
senting the testator or intestate, and such of the executors or administra
tors as the sheriff shall return summoned, shall answer to the plaintifff;
and in case judgment shall pass for the plaintiil' he shall have his judgment

(a) A father has the ﬁrst and best right to act as the next
friend ofhis iiifnnt cbild,in any litigation necessary for the pro
tection of his child's rights. Run v. Mztra, 18 Slew. 377.
(b) The form of the iuasignmentis immaterial; it maybeby
writln under seal, by writing without seal, or b meredeilver
for va ue. Winﬂrld v. Hind-ton, 4 Dulcli. 7.55, al, G1-um, (".- .
An assignment of a bond or other specially need not be by
deed or in writing, in order to enable the asslgnee to sue

of the iasslsumrm. between the original parties.

in his own name. Allzn V. Paru'on.rt,b‘prn.68. Where an instru~
ment is made aszignable by statute-,but not in an speciﬁed

veyed, an amignee may suc alter the deal

mode, and by the terms oflhe contract it in ma»desasl,gnable by
indomenieni, the holder may in that mode acquire title to the

Arulrew: v. Run, 5 Vr. 4%.

instrument, and a right to maintain an action thereon in his
own name. Winflrld v. Hudson, 4 Dulrh. 255. An assignment

does not ll8CP.\‘Sill‘lly imply or require wrliing.

Hulchnig/.1 v.

Low, 1 Or. 247,1);-vi/.-¢,J. Securities ma be transferred under
the provisioiisi of a trust deed, by rolivery.
Vrwlmid v.
Vrm Jlorn, 2 (7. E. fir. I37. It is not necessar that the assign
ment of a bonil, when made under seal, s iould show any
consideration. fhv‘/rory v. irremnri, 2 Zn/1. 405. An aasiirnnieiit

of 9. bond and nioriznge duly executed is primafm-ie evfileiicc
that the consldi-ration was pniri.

B0.

ll‘;-xln-i-rll. v. Scull, 3 Stork.

If the holiier of n. bond lL\‘3llZi'l it for more than is due

upon it, he is llalllo in the nsslgnce for the deiiclem-_v. Drrkrr
v. Arlnnu, 4 IJulrIi_ Fill. Ai=sipriimciit rifn. bond implies no guar

antee.

Gnrrrlxir \'. Fan .-\'e'x.v, Pm. '20.

Pm. "Iii.

mm v. 1'rimmr1', Pm. "Q51.

Ilmvnporl v. Ifurnm,
An nizreement by an

n.is<i'|ziieo nra hnnrl and nioruzmre. that he would call at tho oiﬂre
of the obiiizor for ihc iiiterest, does not make that uﬁicc ever
aﬂer the only legal place for puyinenl, and is um, in form or

legal effect, an agreement so as to affect the bond.

ﬂlrﬂoll/1 v_

De Grool, 4 (1 E. Gr. 72; reversed, 4 (J. E‘. Ur. 53!. Tho assigriee
takes it subject to all the equities which exlsied at the lime
Bispham, 6 Hal. ll0.

Shannon \'. Mnrxclln, Smc. 413.

01., 1 Ifal. Ch. l37, 683.

Borrow v.
Vim Hook

Cbrnlrh v. Bryan, 2 Stock,

(1') On an express covenant as to the CSi1lPiilY.lly0l' land con
of the assignor, by

showing that she is an ssslgnee foi-avaluabie consideration.
It seems that the assignment must

be in wi-hing, and also that the assi
must be in ihe name of the origina

or he dead, or ihe suit
pmmisee. Jlforrou" v.

Vernon, 6 Vr. 490, 492.

(d) A married woman can recover damages only for her per
sonal injury and suffering. The loss of income from berm
capnciiy, and the expenses of her cure must be recovered by
her husband.

Klein v. Jrwell, ll C. E. (hr, 47-|, 12 ('_ 1-,‘, (?r_ 55¢

Before March 25th, 1852, an action brought by ahusband against
an administrator to recover his wife's share, would not be
abated by the death of the husband after verdict and before
]U(lL‘,’illEl'lL Tlrnelrk ads. F!npp,5 Dnlch. 2.5. In nil instances
except where the frme mwrt is livingin antaie of separation
from her husband, he retains his common-law power of eoniml
over and interest in the action. The husband has not a mere
power Lo sue for the wife, but he has the power coupled with an
nicrcst in the suit. l'r'mi.v_ulmnia R. R. (in. v. G00dn\ough,%

lr. 577. In an action by husband and wife forapeinonal in
i<}bi.'he Wife, his coulribuiory negligence will defeat the

253'!

PRACTICE.
and execution against such of the executors or administrators as the sheriff
shall have returned summ0ned,and against all others named in the writ,
of the goods and chattels of the deceased, the same as if they had all been
summoned or had appeared. (a)
26. That in case any executor or executors have refused, or shall refuse,
in writing, to prove the last will and testament of any testator, and shall
ﬁle such refusal in the snrrogate‘s oiiice of the proper county, the execu
tor or executors who have proved, or shall prove said last will and testa
ment, may maintain a suit at law, without joining in such suit, such
executor or executors so refusing as aforesaid.
27. That if any plaintiffi',aiter suit commenced, shall become a bank
rupt, or make an assignment for the equal beneﬁt of his creditors, the
assignee in bankruptcy or under the deed of assignment, may, by order of
the court or a judge, be substituted as plaintiii‘, and the suit shall there
after be continued in his name; provided, that the defendant in such action
shall be entitled to the same defenses and set-oﬂ' as if the suit had been
continued in the name of the original plaintifff.
28. That in all actions upon bills of exchange, promissory notes, or
other written instruments,any of the parties to which are designated by the
initial letter or letters or some contraction of the Christian or ﬁrst name or
names, it shall be sufficient in every aﬂidavit to hold to bail,and in the

process or declaration to designate such party by the same initial letter or
letters or contraction of the Christian or ﬁrst name or names, instead of
stating the Christian or ﬁrst name or names in full. (b)

E1901-War
renouncing need
not join.

P. L. 1871, p. 59.

Substitution of
asslgnee in bank
ruptcy, &c.

Parties may be
designated by the
initial letter or
contraction of
Chriaiian name.
P. L. 1870, p. 59.

1. TO ACTIONS on BILLS AND norms.

29. That the holder of any bill of exchange or promissory note, instead
of bringing separate actions against the parties separately liable thereon,
may include all or any of them in one action, and proceed to judgment
and execution, in the same manner as though all the defendants were joint
contractors, subject, however, to the qualiﬁcations hereinafter provided. (c)

'30. That in every such action the plaintifff may declare on the money
counts alone, annexing to the declaration a notice containing a copy of the
bill or note, with the indorsements, and stating that the action is brought
to recover the amount due thereon; but he shall not declare against any
several drawer, maker, indorser, or acceptor, not served with process, or a
copy of the declaration ; and any joint drawer, maker, indorser, or acceptor
may plead in abatement the non-joinder of any other joint drawer, maker,
indorser, or acceptor; and no judgment shall be rendered, or record made
up against any several drawer, maker, indorser, or acceptor, not served
with process, or a copy of the declaration, which copy shall be served on
or before the ﬁling of the same, and an aﬂidavit of such service shall be
annexed to and ﬁled with the declaration; butjudgment may be obtained
against joint contractors, some only of whom have been served with pro
cess, and suchjudgment shall have the same effect against the joint con
tractors as heretofore.

31. That in any such action, judgment may be rendered for the plaintifff
against some one or more of the defendants, and also in favor of some one
or more of the defendants against the plaintifff, according as the rights and
liabilities of the respective parties shall appear, either upon confession,
default in pleading, or on a trial; and any person sued shall be entitled to
set oﬁ' his demands against the plaintifff in the same manner as though
such defendant had been sued in the form heretofore used; (d) and when
(u) When executors have all taken outielters, they areco
execuuirs of the will, and must sue and be sued jointly, in the

same manner as ii’ they had all proved the will at the same
time and before the same oﬂicer.

(‘JIl7‘8¢I'l'-I (Use, 3 Gr. Ch. 408.

In aclions against ex£'Cl.li0|‘.4, only those who have proved the
will need bejoiued. (bll: v. S/nallry, i Dulcli. 374, 380.
(bi lnillals cannot be used for Christian names of parties to

actioiis. except in cases oi‘ parties described by initial letters in
bills of exchange. pmintwzry notes. or other wriuen instru
ments. Elbe:-wn v. Richai-dr, 13 V1169. The omission to give

Actions on bills
-oi’ exchange or
promissory notes.
P. L. 1855, p. 288,
Q 1-l.

Declarations on
bills of exchange
or promissory
notm.
Ib., Q15.

Judgment may be
rendered for or
against one or

more defendants.
Ib., Q 16.
Any of defendants
may set oﬂ‘ de
mands against
piaintiﬂ.

the fhli name is fatal, except in actions mentioned in ihissec
lion. Dillmar Ptnv¢lu' Cb. v. Leon, 13 V1‘. 540.
Gibln, I5 Vr. 169.

See Krarslry V.

(vi This section does not extend to suits in justices‘ courts.
Om/t V. -S‘milh, 6 V1‘. 301

1111 Set-of!‘ of an individual debt cannot be pleaded by one of
urn joint and several makers of a pmmissory note lo an action
against both makers under this section. Poll: v. Barlow and
Afursh, 18 N. J. L. J. 216.

'E[OI.LOV'}I<I

.<a8u1p0000.1({ 1.11
nsuo _10 1110-1011

"<11 ‘.111

s1uup110_10(1 -nua
pan 01 5110111111.-.11
30 ‘s1_1111p110_10p-00
my

"qt 1 ‘SI

'.1110u1.?§p11[ 111;11s 011 p0."1011110.1 111 .10.-\1=_1 _10 K111: ‘111111)110_1011 011 1112119; .10.\000.1 S111
s'.1s00 ~1s11111i‘Iu 011:1 111111111111 111 011:1 01111:s .1011111:u.1 S11 q3110q"1 11101u§11111' puq
110011 110.1.)1)110.1 .101 111: 011:1 's1111;p110_1011
'38 11.11111‘ ‘J1 1101111 0111 1121.11 _10 X111: 110118 ‘1101101: 0111 01011.11 111110011: _10 0111
_110-10s 110.1-10111; 1111110 112111110 .10 p000.\'0 011:1 1111101111: 110.n1;1111: 0'1 011-1 "__111:11111:11‘l
111‘1.10111 0111 1s.1g 01111‘0s1::1 10111.10.\ .10 1.101101 0111111118 111 _10.10.\1:_1 011:1 s1111:1111.1_1011
".\'111r.10110.‘5 11111; 111 0111 qs1:1 0s11;) .10_1 0111 ‘ss00x0 11111: 111 111: s0s1:0 0111 1:1111.10.\ .10
c1.11.11.I0.1 111:11s .'\'_11q.100 0111 51111101111: 110.\111111: 0-1 110110 '.1111:1_11111_1.111 s1: 1: "1111-:1:1s
'88 51111111‘ 0111 s'111.%J1.1 11111: s.11q111q1s110ds0.1 0111111 11:.1."1.\.1s s01"1.11:1'l 1-111 .\"u1: 1'1011s
11111 .10 ‘011111 s1: 11.1.1.11'1.11.1 11.1110 ‘.1.'11110 1111110 111_"1.:1110.1 s1: ‘0.10_,11:1:10.1011 I7i111.\1:s K1111)
0111 s111S1.1 _10 0111 111111111111 05 .1"1.:_1 $1: .\‘011'1 -1"1=111 0.11.111 110011 110111_111.10t1.111 .'\'11 0111
‘~1110111i‘1'11111' 11111.: X111: 0110 .10 0.10111 _111 01111 s1111:1"1110_,101i1 1111119 011 1101111110 01 0111

.\'1101111-1901 _11_1 X1111: 11111111105011-1'10 $1: 1: ss.'111'11.\\ 111 111: s0s1.:0 ..1.1.'111.\\ 011 .10 K:-.1111

1' 111.1u18pn 1211111 aq
p0.101u0 1s11111:n:
A111: 0111311 s10!-1.112111
01 111111 .10 ‘anon

"<11 1 '01

s011.111,1 0011s £11111
.\‘111du .101 '_10110J

111110.11 011 1101111110 0:1 s111 .\11011111.<01 111111 0111 110:.111=1111.=; 111t111I‘»1111.111 .111-1 111.1111
0.10_1010.1011 $110511 111111 0111 111111111111 111:11s 011 11.11'11111._1 01 0111 -'\'11011.11"1s01 _11-1 £1.11:
11112111101011 s1: 1: s~;<.'111711.\\ 111 111: sasuo 11.1011.“ 011 1)1111'1.\\ .111 1101111110 01 $111 1119.11
.\'110111 11s1111:f‘1: 0111 .1011'10 s.",11~1.11:11 111 011:1 11111 .10 01011 111211 0111 -11119 110011 f111§=111(.1.I1'1
111 011-1 111.1111 .~1.111_10:10.1.111 -11'..1s11
"[78 2111:1111‘ :11 111:11s 1011 011 .\'.11:ss.10011 .1111 0111 111111111111 01 .111111.'1111 111 0111 0111115
11.10-10.1 1; '1110111.1“I11111' 101111231: 111: 0111 s011.11:1:1 0:1 111129 11111 .10 ‘01011 111111 '111.1u1511111'
.\'1:u1 011 110.1.1t1u-.1 t1<~1111=.‘13'11.: X111: 110 111.1111 .10.\011.111.~.\ 0111 _1111111_1:11l 111110.11 0.\1:11
110011 1101111110 051 .1111 0111115‘ 111111 0111 11119 11.1011 1100110111111110 ~1s1111:.1‘I1: 11.1119 .\'1.11:1I
f.\'1110 11111: _11 0111 1111.11 .10 .TI111.11;011 _10 110110 .1s111::1 011 11111 _110 .\'11 .1111: _111 11111
8011.11.11! 1.111 111110 11111 .10 '.1~11'111 .10 _11 3110111.‘.'I11111'1; .\'1*1 1111111011 1111110 0.11111 110011 -1111
11;11111.:1 1191111101: 1.11111 _10 .1111 ‘s1111:11110_1.111 0111 .1111111_1:11.I X11111 110000.111 111 .1111 101.11
.10 .?I111.11;011 ‘1.<111_11:f1: 0111 1.111111 s.111.11‘.11 111 .1111 0111115 .1.111111;u1 s1: _11 0111 1111s 111111
11.1011 11.1.111.11111110.) 1s111_1:i‘i1: .1111 .1.'11110 .~1;'111.11:1| '-'\'1110

"98 1110111’ X111: .\'1.11:11 01 K111: .\'.111s.<111111.11I 01011 .10 11111 _11_1 ‘.1.T§111:11.1.\:.1 1111.11
111:11s 011 §11111111'11011s 1111.11 .\'111: 101110 .\'1.11:11 ‘01.1.1.1111 .\'1:111 .\'11l1l1: 01 0111 ‘1.11111.1
.10 1: 0?'11111‘ ‘_10.*1.1.’1111 .101 .1111: .1.111.10 .10 _1.111.1.1 01 11.111111 .111 111110.11 011 1»-11111110 _11

"<11 "1131

011 111111 11.1011 ‘11.111s.\'1.111:.11:1E.1< 11111: .1111 1.111110 .10 ‘.\'1:1110.‘§11111' 111 -.'1.1.1_~111.11..1111
*1111.:.1Ti‘1101_1 111 111111 110115‘ 1011.111 .10 _1,11_1.1.1 s1: 111110.11 011 1101111115 01 110119 .\'1.11r1l
_11 .\'1.111:.1'1:1l0»' '11-1115
.~;.‘1u111.1-10(1.1,{ L11
0/.~v.;) _10 1101111.'10.\'0
'11.1nss;

"<11 2 '11.

-98 1101111 .1.1_\.111.111,11 111: 1101111.11.1_\'.1 -,1s1111:_:':1: 311111-3' .10 11s1111:.TI1: >:111111,.‘.?' .10
'.-11111r1 1111110 .111.~".~_1 111 .\'111: 11.1|1< 11111101: 11111111 1: 11111 <1:'.1'11'111.10 s1 0.101.111111;1.1.111
11.1111.\0.1(I ‘.101 11 111:11s 011 _\"111110111 _10 .1111 '.1.1.111111.1011111.111‘.111.1.11|1s .1.11_11; §111.\11r111
1! .\'.\.11 1101111 21111 .\'11.1.'11l0.11l .11111:11 01 .1111 *1101111.1.1x.1 11:1 .1>11:111 '.1110.\'.1111_111111111
_10 0111 .\'1.1011-1.111 _10 011-1 1111:1111-11.111 s1111:1111.1_1.111.10 .\'11.11:1111.11I '-11111111 $11 1100.\11.111
‘.<.1.\1.11~111.111'1 .1111

r

111.1111.*..~..1r;p11I 1.11

$11

.2‘.11111.111.1.11r"I111.1111.\'1r11

01

.1111

$111.1-11

_111 .|111]!F1.?1111 ‘01011 J1

11 1111.1 .111 1-111111 .1.11~_1.~11 .T'.11111.‘..< .1111 .\'1.1.11I0.111 _111 111~;<.1.‘111-1111 .10 .<1111<.1-111 -11110.1.1;~"
_\'11_.11 :."1111‘.r11 11111:

_11'1_1 J1111

11111112111111.1111

11lI11.\"11‘.1.1.1;111111.111's.1(1 .111 .\'11l11.')11J, _]()

'X1111111:_11_1r1.1011.10

1 -111 .10_11111111:11I $111 .\'.111.111111: 111 .-'1.~:.11>11111 110 11<11111.1.1x.1.111'1 0111 .1.111.10 111 11.111111
1 .111 .T11111.1<1;1.11!‘51111.1111-11.111 111 .1111 .=?111.1.11 ;"1111_111 11111 .111 .).11;‘.111111 211111711 S12

-1111.1011.11111u0_1]

11.1.1111-'111 ‘$'0.\1.1s1I1~1111 .1111 _<i11_ :;111.1111.\'1:11 11111: _11 11.111s ‘1101111110.111:111.1111.1s.11111111

'1_11'|11.1‘;1111:11|$111.11
1.1<111:11.~2 '.“1111.~1I

.11)

1110111-\‘vJ X11
11m11110_1.1p -11110005
0111121151110 111011

11011110 $1: f.11:111?.1.1.11 111111 _11 .1111 111.1111.I‘I1111[' .111 11-11:11 .\'11 1: »1111r1111.1_1.111 .10 -1111.1_1~>11
s-1111; .\'11.11:11110.>-1s s1:*.>1111:11 11.10.111.111 11‘.@.1\1-1s111.1111 111:11< 11011 .111 1*-.1.1.1111s*110:1
11.'11_1.<111:>s‘ S1! .11<1111:_T.11 .1111 1111:1111-1_1.11> .111 ~s1111:1111.1_1.111 01111111 .1.1.\0 110 011.1 11111 .10
01011 01 11111 1111:1111.1_1..111 .‘t'111.\11:111 11.111» 111111"111.”1111.\'11<.l 011 11101»: -1111111:110‘.1.\1:11

111q‘11111_1011_1.-111:9
X11111 0.\1,-11 111011011
'110111100x0_10

011

.\'111.111111 111‘.11112111

111:|1s

.111

0111 .\"i11111 _10 1.1.<11‘11,11111.1.1111 .1111.1111s12 -OX0

111111110 1111 0111 1111110 .111 11; ~.1_rI11111' $111,117; .1.11_11111 _10.1.1.111.1 01 0111 .1.11110 sw'11~1.11:1l 111

.1111 '111.1111..“§11111' 11111: 1.1.11'11111.' 11-1 11.111>' .\'1:111s1:s11111-11:111B.1.1 01.1 1111_10111~11.1-511111111

11_1.111.111 11111: 111.1"1110.‘1 '10 11.111< 111.1111.Ti11111' .1111 .1111 _1110.<01|.1111I TI11111011111110 -.\'1:11.1.1
'111.'111l 11111.11 .1111 1111:1111.1_1-1111 .10 >.1111:11111>_1=\11 .11111:11 11111101 .10} 11-111$ ‘1110111.\'1=110.1

11111: 110 $1111 1101<11:.11111111: .1111 1.111110 .10 0511111‘ .\'1:111 1011.10 111: 011ss1 .\'.1101 0111
11011.~:011I,1 111 '.\‘.\.'.1.1.\1’1.1111<1.) ('11)
111) 11111|_'1 110111:.1111l1111 .111 11111111101011-11.)1: .10_] 10.111111.) 1130 -2111111‘
111.1111 1111111 X11 '1u111 1111.-.1-111.“ .<111\.111 01111111.{11.111111|0;1.1< 1.1111111
\'1_1[1 11‘11011.1.1.~ ~.1'.\\ '11.'1.1-111.111 110 11.111111.~111 11'1.».1.111_1 's.~.111p.1111011111
111111 011 0.\1:11 0111 11111 111011011 10.11110.".1111111 110 11111:1u.1r11??p11['0111

‘11111111;1.1.\0 1111.11 51110 30 01111111 10130 24.1.01 pun 11.1111 111: 011%;
. 111111111~ .111 01111111 111111 110111111,‘ 5.110! 0111 I.1(1111,.1|'1b .i>'10.\0.11110.)111
11.10.111.111 .1111 11111111111-1_1.111

p1m.m([ ‘A ‘/1q»11~n.1_[

91 ‘.|_| ‘L139

"(I "I -I’ ‘.11 '.'! ‘P! "1'; ‘A I’-"1./3"!) ""11 "01) II '-71-'25‘ '£".~‘I

01%

I’R.~\C'l‘.ICE.

gl

539

(.)B.lEL"l‘lONS FUR .\'(').\'-JOl.\'Dl*'Ill OR .\llSJt'll.\'Dl'Il{.

In case of non
jotmlur or mis
jollvlt-r Ofﬂ. plain

37. That the non-jointlor or 1nisj<_>i1nle1' of a plaintitl shall not he (_)ll_l(‘('tt}(,l
to hy the (lt-l'en<l:u1t, unless he give writtt-n notice 01' such <>l»_jt-t-tinn to the
plaintiff, within ﬁve (lays at'tt~1' tiling his plea or tlt-t|n|1't't>r, antl state in
such nnt.i<_-u the name 01' the pt-|'st_n1 allt-_;(-tl tn have been mnittutl or
i|npr0p0rl_\; _jt>int-tl; and it shall he lawful for the court ()l' a jn(lgc, at an_\'
titnu lieforc the trial t>l' the issnv, wltctlicr of law nr nf fact, to Ol°(l('l', npnn
such terms as the:_\' nr llt‘ shall think proper, that any |)(‘l':~sull not jtlllltftl as
plaintiff in such <-anso shall hv so jnim-ml, 01' that any ])t'l'St)ll t>t'i;_Yinall_y

tiﬂ', notloe of
objection.
P. L. 1855, p. 288,
Q 9.

Amendment
OI'tlQl‘9(l.

joined as plaintitl shall he Sll'lt('l\' nut t‘|-tan Sll('ll causv. it‘ it shall appear

that injnsticv will not lit‘. tlnno h_\' snch a1ncntl|n0nt,aml that the pt-1-stat
to he atlth-tl as at'n1'vsai<l,villa-1' in porstm or h_\' writin_<_f llll(lt‘l' his halal,
consent tn la» St) _j0intal,u1" that tho |)t'l‘.\‘t)ll tn he st1'n(~l~; out. as afurcsaitl,
was m'iginall_y matlo a |>art._\' Wllllulll» his ('t>llSt'lll. 01' that such itL‘l'S()ll
consent. in llI{\llll('l' at'<n't~sai<l, to he .'~'tl'll('l{ unt:

antl upon 1nakin§_: anrl

lilin_1__r Sll('ll ()l'(l\.‘l' antl written ('ttlt.~‘~(‘lll, tho ]ll't'\'l()ll\ |n"<a-t-uli1§_{s in the
('ans(- on thu part t>l' the ;»laintitl' shall la- :\ltlt‘lHl(‘(l int-t>nl'u1'1nit_\' tln‘t't*tu.
antl wla-n any such atnt~ntl|nt~nt shall la- lll.‘l(lt'. the lial>ilit_v of an_\' nersuti
who shall la: :llltl(‘tl as on-|»laintill' shall. snl»_it-(~t tn :\11)'t(-tilts lllt]l<r.\(‘(l as
a['m't-~:aitl, lw

ll!t'

.<ana- as

il' sat-It

pt-rstnt hatl la-vn <n'i_g_'*inall_\' juinul as

plaintitt; tllttl tht: tlt-ti-ntlant shall ph-all In sat-ll atnvntlt-tl tlt~ula1'ati0n in
thirt_\' tla_\'s :tl't(~t' a !~'('l‘\'l('('(tl'1[(‘titty tln~l‘t-nl'tni hint. tr/)
In also nfjolnder

38. 'l‘l1at thv jnimlt-1' t>l' lm) 1nan_\' tlt-l't-ntlants in an_\' at-tinn tltmlt cun

nt' too many

tt‘:u't shall tml lav nli_i<~<-twl In nll tin" trial mi’ lltc 0.-ttt.st:, t|11lv;~'>' thv <l<'t't*n<lant,
Within ll\'l' tl:t_\',s' allt-I‘ Iilin~_'_' his [viva 01' alt-tttnttt-1'. _11i\'t~ \\'l'lll\‘ll ll(,)ll('(‘ to
thv lll1llllllll.Ul‘\ll('ll int!-ntlt-tl ul»_itt'tit>l|

<l4*f-t-:nl:u|t*, n0llC6
of uhjt-L'll0l1.
Ih., 1 10.

illltl ll]mll >‘tlt‘ll llt)ll('t' lwit|g_' ;1‘i\'t*n.
7

it sltztll l><' l:t\\'|'tll lit!‘ tln- t't»ttt'l_ tn‘ t _intlg't-, at an_\' tinn- la-t‘t>1't~ tht- trial of
thv t::|nst:, tn ()|'llt'l'.lll1Ull '~ll(‘ll lt'l'lll~'~ as tltt-_\' or ll\' :~it:tll think |n'~pt-:', that
I
I

thv

ttitltlv 01' tan» or t:u,1'<- t>l' .~nt-h tlt-t'tn<lant< la‘ strut-lt" unt, il' it shall

appvzw that

in_itt~<ti~'t- will

nut

la- tlnnv l>_\' snvlt ann-ntltn<~nt; atnl npnn

1na|\in1_: antl lillttg" .\tl4‘l1 Ul'll"l'. ll.l‘ |n-t-vittns lmtt-t-t-<li|t;;> in

Atnvtalincnt.

tlw t'Illl>'t', on

the part of th~ |»lai:ttiit_ shall lw ann-nth-tl in t-.n|t'--rtn-t_\' lllt‘l"<lH, antl lla
thrti-ntlant shall |tl=atl tl-w tt<>\'u in tltittuv <l§'.- al"~-1' S(‘l'\'lI't‘ t>l' at t-nliy t»t' the

amt-n<lt>tl tlm-la rat inn. t//l
39. That in :lIl_\'1tL'll1)ll on (tnltll':l(‘l, ('()llllllt‘ll('t'~l by stttnnttms. wln-1'0 the
non-_jr>in<lt't' <)l' any ta-|"sn|| as a t-n-tlt-l'-'ntlant shall la- lll\'2l(ll‘ll in al>att~1nt~nt,

Vlfrlt and dvclarzv
tlon in actions on
contract may be

the plaintitl slltlll la‘ at lila-rt_\', witltnnt an_\' urtlt-1', l.t)1llllL'lltl tho writ
antl tl('('ltll'itllI)ll, h_\' a<ltlin_§ lllt' nan1~- nth’ thv pt-1's<>11 natnml in Stttill phat in

atnt-ntlotl on plea
tn abatement.

ahatt.-taunt as a juint t-<»ntr;n-tut", atnl to ~t-1'\'t- tht; 2llllt'lltl\"l writ ttlmtt the
P('t'Sutl so nana-tl in sat-h [at-a in ah.-ttt-int-nt,:u|~l to |tl'()t'\‘U(l : l_'_1'2 lll1Sl hint
and the <n'i<_;inal tlt-l't-ntlant; antl tht-_\' .~hall lvlvatl to tlw tllllttlllltttl tlt-cla|'a

1b., Z 11.

tiou in thit't_\' tl:l_\'S al'tt-r .<t-1'\ita- 01' a ('n|t_\' tln-rt-<>l'. hnt thv tltllt‘ <>t' such
2Ill1('lttllI1('llt» :~l1:Ill., as llt‘l‘~\'t"i'll llllf |)t'l'\‘l:ll so athh-tl Sllltl thv ]»laintitl', he
C()llSltl(.'l'(’<l l'<n' all |)ttt'1>t>st-s a< tin: t-tanint-nt:t~tn<-nt ut' the tllfllull; 7»/an-/'1/w/,

that il' the pt~t's0t1 so uthlt-tl (lt) n0L 1'£‘.\'l(lL‘ within the _]ut'i.~'tlicti(m 01' the
(ll nt~'-- v'l---.s t wt-uh-4| rm
.'.t<
I11‘--l W": ' -' \ I t.t I ,

1;,-1 \'. 1

thv in-n tniialt-r¢>f'pa|in-st-aunt-it lu
|.'t¢l.|,1'\('l|Il'I|ll't""l |l(‘*hl"l'.I\l\
MI "I-t '!'!,'( 1', l.- It.’
it li ..'ul

I

(1 _~n~- in 1'1 ~|-|~-.- '

‘ 1| .1

't|H(|\ |||

\\l1lt'h t‘

l|.~tl

nu 1n--po-tt_\ .:'
ll, ll
~t ~r
.1 |~n :.-»t-.-.- |~ ~ :\~-'1:-l' z
-~-'
_]|_-1'1 i--r, l‘. '~ ¢n.ttn~~t \l | H‘ I .~~ 1l.un 1-1-sl ll lll" \Il||-"
ut' " - |»m;»~ '_‘~'.
1' I'.t' \. ' H ". l Iv. |.'l
\'- l|l'|l .|:|
wu in i-1 tr. »:'_'l.t HI t.n- '.u 1- ut to!-1' vl' - \ll I J"!-ll.
(‘u||lI. "'I'|\,

¢L'l'l

Ill)

1,t,v-,

I

_\‘.- ll

1"‘ Ill"

It'll:

~

ll .1 I,

ll.l‘

Proviso ln case of
non-residence.

(ht '|‘||t~ ||lH]_1Ullll||'l" nl‘ 1!.-1'. |\ll:H|l\ is IV)! :1 Llrtamrl l'u|'n0n

um; ltlllllt tl_\" ll tUl‘Ill |>-- ta \. n :'l\;1nl. l_'4' uf utal\' l»_\' plt-it
ltl .|l|.\tt-in--1'
_t/',~'. H’ \ l.'H"u 'I\(n'
" /'1!/v_ ,')‘-ll,
\\'ln'11- tut)
ll .ut\

1l(|'\,"'(l.'ll ts :1 0- _"'_lH~tl

It!1"!!t\‘lllH1UllI‘t)Hll;\"l.lll(']ll'(J

(0 »'vl:|I'_~ (.lI| w !\ Iv .l|l!i'H't"'l ltl tln- lt*'llllll'l'|Nllllll'tl tllll by
tl-t~ tut:-v.1
l
'v' *'|clii(,‘l\-"1l,llIl'(‘t1‘ll'l ll t~ nu [N\\\l'1' [Q
an I'!u'l tn! |v'v .t1' "_'~, nun‘: ll!" t1:;1l, l»_\' ~tt|l;1tt_* tum) thu
nu-nl tln-ltn-n-u|"!n~tttIt-ntt..nt nnpr->1---|"'_\'_|-ant-it
I'lm-.1104”
\'.I

1' L~,‘_',

ll" - '1

‘,1’;

In q'_|~-~ (ll it

l'll\

lllltll |1~|'clo"t-|1||,1||[,\"

(hll|l[)ll'\‘l‘_
('.1'm ll
at the (.1 I ll‘! ~'|m| lltv '2 ;':t 1-I' ll'~'
])|_|i.t:,!] In ~.| - ..1 1'11 . ll ll 1,.-1.. \' |.-~ ~t t|.. 1:. ll
1, - ' \\_ \
_]u||t|,
I.‘/-1,1‘/I \'
/nu", l
ll
l.~
l: ‘Ill .~".v1l.t|
.'. |-~t| -t
;\_'|i||\1 -tun -tl ~» \- 3 |l _t¢.,||[ (lt ll 4 |- \,||- 1| ,-ii I F \ '1 111'»-I-'u1~.
;|,;. ||-.1-t {tn-|.t~_\l 'l]l'l0 t-yu:,| |l1|l]'“.~. I-"'v;t\tlu mn:-'tul llv ltulltl‘ 1' \<~-1l\\'tlwtln"-~|1¢l'\t|'~I-t’~|u It t. |‘l‘|'llI:l'l'_l||(f
||.;i1t'1ll ls ljlll 1 '|Ia.i I t rzt \t'l'llt'l ;t_;tt|t~t A I llwttt i.u.t.|'~,
|l'.l‘~\ _\l.|l| \\‘.
tt l‘l' \\..|r.utl1-ll l~_\' tl'-.- I.-»vJ <~'-:~r»u
\
/ mwt! "_ ti l'»
‘Ii
I|1~I-1'il{t“.
'1 l -ltv 1- I-I ta tI|_.'~,
lli--|~'.\ntl lrttttt-ttla-| -'»\-|'--l.‘.l'l1'~ [Ht-\~- .1 t.»
:|...ttl|\l

_jt,mti.; _,: 1,;vn| -1' 'l tr tun--, - .4 ||t 1 t\'.‘ll in It-~~.~t. I: t--I;
lint tl: - pl.-an l\l\. I l IH'
- n I ; t' l .--|- ‘t -t
it‘
Ht I llll m‘<.
'I'."I'/: \' /21 tr. tn l I t'.a
\ l»t.~'l - I.|| I l|\‘\II"
v

at \'ut'Il.v tlt-.t"vl.'it|‘.~. I ‘:1 \\ 1 !|..\'=- n \'o rt wt .'t »: .~t MN ll
an Iv as :'|'-- in »\t-cl tn l-»- It -l I". Ii»
'| ll
|-¢~t'_t~»tn 1" nl :1.
ll-~l--t'-lint in an at"-it-t‘ '1 I t’ 4;-I1 ‘.,‘!r* l \1n;ut\.'ttt.i'_'t~
1,] itt‘l\'l'\'|-l¢ \l‘t?‘-|li'lll'll\.
l ll! "_"7t I l|~-' t-lw |Il|‘.[lll'||,
{mil |' .-g-,-t-.nt-tl at th - ll'l.ll th \' :: 1» r~1-'1 \~ lv~\~l| ‘llli l\il\PlN'l‘l|

11):; \.||l u'| ;|

i1;l'_"~|~"

I

l

1‘\ -1-] ‘\|_| ll'|H‘l ~'

I'uh~~~. l1~v\~-\"--r. 'ln- |l‘lll"('
l)_\' llll\' ‘~--1 ‘i ||

'.-I-\'l-~\\|’»i

1:! I ‘i-.\-l'v""|' \\lw h I\ | tn 1" al

lw ;_1i'|-1|_\H(~l]

|l|]|H‘|'ll'("‘

|| 1-,|||:\u

lw

|_|‘\q-:1

1ul\:\'tt \_':-iv '-'»' --t.'||tt‘~-I‘
/.'.'~'- n \'. /1' HI-'. ll ll '_‘l‘~»
Fla»
linn~§.' an-§~‘t-t l'~1~|tI"It"l4"‘2"‘ltlI'l'tl'IlZ‘|\'\5H'1l\t-'~»H|‘tt'-lit!‘
lhv lll ll I-I \:||.l=l 1- n-~t-~ llI' Ill 'lu-I - in 1-" ;~l»*..~|n tln'lrl.1luf
atnpmtla tl|vt't:l'|mu
/H”. .~ \. ('w~ , '.‘- l'r -'»l':.

;\

lll‘l-I ||ll.1|ll

ll-\

la-("I

||‘|ltll-"l,

l‘u|'

Cl"

|v‘.¢-tll\ lH‘ll '_f \\tllt la Al,l"1l \--I "I I . " 'I t
tl--- r--t-ml
l.- /~/rmwn \'. /7:
- , -'» |'I
1.'tt/'4!/um liuvr 12.1.‘. !_'-1., '27 1'1. 2.3193.

~.
I

I‘

1

lltt

1"..

llH*

~-'.t-:.- t=l."l'l\' un
bvc I'm:/. V.

.17.).

PRACTICE.

2540

Pleas in abate
ment for non
Joinder of defend
ant to state resi
deuce.
Proceedings in
case oi’ plea in
abatement.
Ih., Q12.

court, then the amended writ and declaration need not be served upon
him; and provided _furthc1-, that all pleas in abatement of the non-joinder
of any other defendant shall state the place of residence of the person
whose non-joinder is pleaded.
40. That in all cases after such plea in abatement and amendment, as is
provided for in the next preceding section, if it shall appear upon the trial
of the action that the person so named in such plea in abatement was
jointly liable with the original defendant, the original defendant shall be
entitled, as against the plaintifff, to the costs of such plea in abatement;
but if, at such trial, it shall appear that the original defendant is liable, but

that one or more of the persons named in such plea in abatement is or are
not liable as a. contracting party or parties, the plaintiﬂ‘ shall nevertheless
be entitled to judgment against the other defendant or defendants who shall
appear to be liable; and every defendant who is not so liable shall have
judgment, with his costs, as against the plaintifff, who shall be allowed the
same, together with his costs, on the plea in abatement and amendment,
as costs in the cause against the original defendant, who shall have so
pleaded in abatement the non-joinder of such person; provided, that any
defendant so pleading in abatement shall he at liberty, on the trial, to
prove the liability of the defendant or defendants named by him in such
plea in abatement.

Proviso.

IV. Process.
Cou ris always
open for return of
writs.

41. That courts "of law shall always be open (except on Sunday) for the
return of all writs and process in civil actions, except writs of error, cer

tiorari, mandamus and quo warranto. (a)
Premnting, &c.,
writs of error, Ate.

P. 1.. 1s-54, p. 259.
Prooema shall bear
dare on day issued.

P. L. 19.55, p. 288,
Q1.
An tedating pro
hibiied.

Process into differ
ent cou nties.
Ib., Q 6.

How indorsed.
R. S. 929, Q is.

42. That the circuit court and court of common pleas shall be open at

all times (except on Sunday) for the presenting and return of writs of error
and certiorari. (b)

43. That all writs and process shall bear date on the day on which the
same shall be issued, and may be on paper or parchment, and the date
shall be prima facie evidence that they were issued on that day, but such
date may be disproved whenever the same shall come in question; and if
any person shall antedate any original process, he shall forfeit one hundred
dollars to the party aggrieved, to be recovered by action of debt, with costs,
and also be liable to him for all damages which he may sustain thereby, to
be recovered in an action of trespass on the case, with costs. (0)
44. That if the defendants in any action in the supreme court reside in
different counties, original process may issue at the same time to each
county in which any of the defendants reside; the names of all the defend
ants shall be inserted in each process, and it shall be the duty of the proper
oﬁlcer to serve the same upon such defendants as he can ﬁnd in his county,
and make return thereto in the manner provided by law.
45. That every summons, capias ad respondendum and writ of execu
tion shall. before the service or execution thereof, be subscribed or indorsed

with the name of the attorney, or party, and clerk by whom such sum
not prove that it was actually issued before the cause of action

(rr) Seenaze, Oourrrs, Sec. ii; Ermons, Sec. 9. A summons
will not he quashed, nor will its service be selaside, because it

arose.

was issned,tesi.ed and served by the sheriﬂ‘ on a legal holiday.

menced as soon as the writis sealed and issued our oi‘ the oﬁice,

Glenn v. Billy, Z2 i'r. Z55.

in good faith, for the purpose of being served or proceeded on,
and that purpose is not uﬂerwarda abandoned.
Wllilakrr v.
Turnl/ulI,3 Hm-. 172. The makin and sealing of a summons
by the piuin|.iﬂ‘s attorney, in g
faith, for the purposeof iiav
lug it served, was the commencement oflhe suit, although it

(0) Ifa writ ofcerlioruri is not served on or before its return
dny, it loses viiaiily and ceaseslo operate, and cannutbe re
vived by rule ofcourt taken after such rv-turn duy. Stale, Van

Ola/, prom, v. (bzrirnianlolvrs, &c., 8 Vr. 394.
(c) The act requiring that all writs and process shall heardaie

on the day on which ihesame shall issue, seems lobe directory.
They may not be nuts-dated.
Jllnrris Chnul. (M. v. Milrhwll, Z
ary, and reiurnnhie the second
pressiniz ihc year, would he

'i‘.’.'», "129.

but if posidated it is not fauli.
Vr. 99. Awritdaied in Febru
Tue-sdaIy' of May, wiihoui ex
void.
IUPII v. Bonn/, I Smdh.

-'\\'iiuess, &c.. at Trenton, the Tuesday nf,"&c,

Wllhﬂlll, desi;:nniiu'.: which Tuesday. is bad. -S‘u_v/rnv. Ridmm;/,
8 Hui. 369. The :~'heril‘fnmy alter the return day io suit his
convenience in making service. I\'loepp|‘ng ads. Slrllmm-Im'. 7
Vr. I76, U8, l)P)|IAf, .!. The I1-slv of a writ is not conclusive
evidence of the time of commencing a suit.
ii'mnlmu1)h v.
Schenck, Pen. ~2'm. c'|"7$fI_I/ v. S/mu, Prn. ‘$388. The mere<pm

ductiou ofa writ bearing Ieslr prior to the cause ofsciiou, oes

Allen v. Smllh, 7 Hal. I59.

A suit is actually mm

was not delivered to lire oﬂicer before the time when ihe action
would be barred by the statute of limitations. Updike v. Tm
Broerlc, ii Vr. I05. The faiiureofihesherllfloserveasnmmons
before the original return day, and n subsequent alteration by
him. extending the lime of return. after the action was barred
by the statute of limitations, will not defeat the suit ii’ the
defendant has appeared and

leaded, without ohjeciiomand the

writ was tested and deliverem I0 the sheriff before the slniule
became s bar. 1i{c0mckm v. Richardson, 17 Vr. 50. A $Lili.iS
not commenced by the signing and sealimz of a summons

which has been retained in ihc attorney’: oﬁice without any
purpose of immediate service. Lynch v. New York, &"c., R. B.
6b.,28 V124.

PRACTICE.

2541

mons, capias ad respondendum or execution shall be sued forth and
sealed. (a)

46. That if the plaintifff, or his attorney, shall omit to insert in, or
indorse on, any writ or process, any_ of the matters required to be inserted
or indorsed, such writ or process shall not on that account beheld void,
but it may be set aside as irregular or amended, on such terms as to the
court may seem ﬁt; and such amendment maybe made upon an applica
tion to set aside the writ.
47. That it shall be the duty of the sheriff or officer to whom any
summons, capias ad respondendum or other process is directed, to return
the same at the time and place therein mentioned, which shall he ﬁled by

Omission in writ
or indorsement
will not make
writ void.

P. L. 1855. p. 288,
I 7.
May be amended.

Return made, or
sheriff amerced.
R. S. 929, Q19.

the clerk of the court; and if the said sheriff or officer fail to make such

return, he shall be amerced by the court in any sum not exceeding the
plaintii"i"s debt or demand, to and for the use of the said piaintiiil (b)
48. That the return of the oﬂicer serving any writ or process may, in
the same action, be shown to be untrue by either of the parties. (0)

49. That the ﬁrst process to be made use of in personal actions in any
of the courts of law in this state, in cases where the plaintifff is not entitled

Return, untrue.
P. L. 1855, p. 289,

Q 5.
Summons, how
served.

R. S. 929, M17, 20.

to bail, shall be a summons, (d) a copy whereof shall be served on the de
fendant iu person, at least two days before its return, or left at his dwell
ing-house or usual place of abode at least six days before its return, (e)
and when the sheriﬂ' or other officer to whom such summons shall be
directed shall return the same "served ” or “summoned,” the party
shall be considered as being in court, and may he proceeded against
accord i n giy .

[The service of civil process on Sunday is void.

See Viol-". AND IM.\ioaA1.

1'rY. Sec. 5. For mode of service on corporation, see that title.]
50. That when the service of the smnmons in an_v civil action is defective
or insufiicient, by reason of any mistake on the part of the plaintifff‘ or of
the oiiicer, as to the place where, or the person with whom the summons or
copy of the summons ought to have been left, the court, or a judge thereof,
may in their discretion order the summons to be amended and re-issued
and served in such manner as they or he shall direct; and the service
so_ made and returned shall be as valid and effectual to all intents and
purposes, as if duly made and returned on the summons as originally

Amended.

Service on Sunday
void.
On defective ser
vice, court may
order a new
summons.

P. L. 1867, p. 26.
Amended.

issued.(g)

51. That the sheriff or other officer shall execute the writ of capias ad
respondendum, by taking the body of the defendant, and in such case
-shall return thereon, that he hath taken the body, or that he hath taken
rnl Application to set aside a summons on the ground that
the name ofthe clerk of the court subscribed to the summons
and the name oi’ the attorney were in typewriting and not

“’l’l"¢'II ll)’ ll-""1. refused in I-Lssex circuit.

Strauss \':Isn(1c, 17

N. J. L. J. 91, 0m'u1,.1.
(bi Under this section, the amercement is merely for a dis

-cretionary sum “not exceeding the plnilltifi 'sdebt or demand."
The rule is general that unless there be a penalty or sums fixed

How capias exe
cuied.
R. S. M9, Q 21.

the defendant. li~'iIltr1m.t ads, Rrrd, 5 Dutch. 385. A party to a
suit in chancery, who resides in another state and comes into
this state to give testimony in his own behalf beiore a master.
is, while necessarily attending before the master and going to
and returning from the place where such examination is held,
privileged from the service ofa summons in a civil cause. with
out any .Uuh})fl'Iltl ml lrxlijicancliun being serveti.
I)un_orm ads.

Miller‘, 8 l'r. 182. Service of asummons upon a person non

lobe paid, in exact Words, for dereliction ofduty, the recovery
must he limited to the actual loss sustained. Stout v. Ifrclcr, 11

resident in this state while going to, attending or returning

N. J. L. J. 171.

.liIrts.sr_v v ("olvHle,l6 l'r. 119. l.-irnhazn v. Slmrp, 2 N. J. 1;. J.
156. The vice president of a foreign corporation, who comes

tr) The rt-tum is an answer to the writ, and whatever the
sheriff has so answered, whether in a statement annexed to the
writ, or upon it, is a return as far as it goes. The admissibility
ofthe copy oi‘ the execution and lev_v, does not depend on the
-suﬁicit,-ncy of the return. Dean v. Thdtrhrr, 3 i'r. 470. The rc

turn ofa marshal that he had levied on lands by virtue of his
warrant, is primnfarir evidence that the levy was not irregular
by reason of the existence of goods and chattels ofdefendant
subject to levy. Murray v. Hohokcn Land (‘o., 18 How. 272. A

recital in a scire fuI't'r1.1 that the writ was duly served on the
garnishee, and thejudgment by default, are conclusive against
him. Ymmn v. D., L. tc ii’. R. R. (.h.,9 Vr. 502. The plain
tiﬂrs attorney may prove the time ofissuing the original declara
tion in ejectment, without producing the iapcr. the question in
-dispute being merely as to time, and not nvolving the contents
Ofthe paper. Den v. Hrrrnilton. 7 Hal. 109.
(d) In cases where the plaintifff is not entitled to bail, the

plaintifff must proceed by summons, and not by capias. Bcatty
V. Ivine, Hen. "623. Addis v. Evans, Pen. "6-'50, note. Brookﬂeld
\'. Jonrs, 3 Hal. 3|], 312. See Att'y-Gen. v. D. ct’ B. B. R. R.
(b.,9 Vr. 282, 328, ontr, p. 99 (n).
(cl A party to a suit, while necessarily going to, staying at, or
refturning from the court, is equally privileged from t e service
o a summons as of a capias. Ilnlsry v. .S‘rru:art,l South. 367.
Ifaparty upon whom asnmmons is served is induced to come
into this state by adeceptlon practiced upon him by the plaintifff
for the purpose of serving the summons, such service is not

:good,and the court will set aside the writ on the application of

from a trial here, as a witness or party, will be set aside.
into this state to give testimony before a supreme court com
missioner, is privileged from the service oi‘ a summons in
another action against such corporation while he is so in attend
ance as a witness. Jlullmn-n v. I’rr.:.s l'uhlishin_(7 (‘o.,‘.2-1 i'r.
153. Service upona resident witness or party is not a nullity.
But the court will control the service, and either set it aside or
change the venue arising from such service, orotherwise remedy
any special disadvantage which such service entails upon the
defendant. Jfrtssry v. (blvillr, 16 i'r. 119. A writ not served is

dead, aﬁcr the return day passes, and the cause is out oi‘ court.
."l[u!!ll(’ws v. Warns, 6 Hal. ‘Z95. Stole v. Krnnnly. 3 Har. 22.
-S‘/ate, Van C'!er_f, pros., \'. ﬁnn2n|‘s.e1’mur.w, ¢('c., 8 l'r. 394. If the
ﬁrst arrest ofthe defendant be unlawihl, he cannot be served

with other ballable process, at the stilt of the same plaintifff,
whileincustody upon that illegal arrest. Prllirr v. ll'uxhing
hm Bank, 2 Gr. 391. For mode oi‘ service where a township is
defendant. see Phr'lHpxhm',r/ ads. Rllub, 8 l'r. 48. Fifteen days
must intervene between the day ofservice and the return day
ofa summons, in an action agalnstamuncipal corporation.
JD-2\’mI v. Glam-ester Oi; , 22 i'r. 444. See p. 1283, note (c) ; p.
1730, note (0), and p. 1867. note (cl, ante.
(n) \Vhere the service of summons on alien claim was defec
tive, and a new summons was issued more than a year after
the fu rnishing of the labor and materiais.- Ilrld, the service of
the new summons was valid and effectual, and the claim good.
Mutual Ins. O0. v. Rowand, ll C. E. Gr. 389.

PRACTICE.

Names of ball ln
dorsed ; copy of
bail bond
returned.
1b., Q 22.
Effect of return
of C. C. C.
Ib., Q 46.

the body into custod '; the ﬁrst usually abbreviated and expressed thus,
C. C., and the second thus, C. C. C.
52. That the sheriff or other oﬂiccr shall indorse on the capias ad res
poiidendiim the names of the bail by him taken, and shall deliver a copy
of the bail bond to the clerk of the court, at or before the return (lay of the
writ; which copy shall be safely kept by the said clerk in his office.
53. That where a sheriﬂ’ or oiiicer returns on a capias ad rcspondendum,
that he hath taken the body into custody or C. C. C., such return shall
have the same etfect as if the sheriti‘, on a rule for that purpose, had
brought the body of the defeiidaiit into court, and the court had thereon

coniinit-ted such defendant to the custody of the sheriff; upon which the
plaintifff shall declare against the said defendant as a prisoner or in custody.

V.

Female not liable
to arrest.

Arrest.

54. That it shall not be lawful to arrest or imprison the person of any

female by virtue of any niesiie process or process of execution in any civil

It. S. 323, @ 1.

action. (0.)
Aﬁitliivlt of the
cause of action.
R.
950, Q51, -1.
Amended.

Proviso that any
court or judge
may order bail.

55. That where bail shall be required in any civil action, an affidavit shall
be made and filed of the cause of such action, which aﬁidavit may be made

before any oiiicer authorized by the laws of this state to administer an
oath or ath'i'iiiatioii; (I2) or, if the plaintiff be otit of this state, before any
judge of any court of judicaturc or iiot-ary public of the st-ate, kingdom or
nation in which he resides or happens to be; (c) and the sum specified in
such allidavit shall be indorsed on the writ or process; ])rov2'rIcr.I, that

nothing in this section shall prevent any court, or any judge thereof, from
ordering, as heretofore, the defendant in any action to be held to special
bail, in sticli sum as the said court or judge, under all the circumstances

To take hall for
sum indorsed.
R. 5. 950, Q 1.
Supreme court
commissioner
may order bail in
tort.
P. L. 1866, p. 419.

of the case, shall think proper to direct, which sum shall be indorsed on
the process. (d)
56. That the sheriff or other oﬂicer to whom any capias ad respondendnm
is directed, shall take bail for the sum indorsed on the writ, and no more.

57. That every supreme court commissioner shall have the same power
and authority as a justice of the supreme court, to make an order to hold
the defendant to bail in any action of tort.

(a) A female cannot be arrested. Bl mm v. Jfrrli-rr, 2 ]Inl.97.
In an uctioli against a husband and wife for a tori coiniuitted
by tiie wife with the encotirageiiient of the husband. an order
may he made to hold them both to ball, but the liushaiid only
can be arrested. A bond given to the siicrilf by both cannot be
set zisltlc by the court. Dtmimno v. (in F110, i6 N. J. L. J 376.
See Fun I-.'mbur1//i v. Pull:-rigrr, I Hur. 3.52. 457. But this privi

lege does not ext-uipt tier from an 1ttlEt('|illlt-lit for contempt for
noii-payiiiciit of costs. (‘tor/t" ads. (hunt, ti l'r. 2.37.
to) A capias cannot be is-sued without an athdavit, although
the plnltitilf wtilve bail. Bmlly v. .li'ms, Pm. 'ti'.’.5. .»|¢l:lis v.
E|‘(tIt9, Put. '6-'30. note. The itllid-rivit is ll9(‘6.-‘.<S1ll‘y who're, in ii
penal action. an arrest is authorized by the slatiite. ('/mm/nun
v. 1'1: rcr, 6 Hul. 1913. iénppleiiiciiuil aliitliivits cannot be taken
to cnrc dcl'cct1~ hi lllv ofiginals. Ptirkrr v. Ugdvn, Pm. ‘H6, “l5l.
Allidiivits for bail tit-ed not be ciititled oi‘ the court in wiilch
tlu-_v are filed. Pellier \'. ll'm'/iin_qtou Bmilr, 2 (Jr. 257. I’m'kn'
v. Ogulrn, Pm. ‘I46. ll‘ sullicieut facts to constitute a good
(!$1ll\It.' ofiiclioii are stated in tlic iiliidavlt, it is no ohjcctioii that
the state-iiiciit coinniciici-s with tiic words "for that,“ but if
coiiinienccd with the words "for that wliercas," it will be by
way of recital. und will not be .\tlll‘l(,‘lt.*ill-. Brown ads. Bnmrll,
I Im/ch. inn. To obtain nii order, the plaintill‘soalli or ai"ilrnia
tioii is adinissible, and is stillicient of ‘itself to prove as well the
facts t'tHl.\i.llllllllJ,' the fraud as the ll|1it‘l)lt‘(lll9SS. l’umI('r v.
I/mtslnn, 4 Ihlfrli. I'll. Sec Ilill till:-i. llunl, -S'prn. -176. Q1" I'_i/——
Wlictlii-r it may he nuule by the attornt-_v oi‘ the plaiiititf.
Striv its v. Jl!rmiir1'.l Jlul. l-3;’. As to stalling the place oi‘ taking
ll, sec It’romsl V. Blink of .\'orUt .-I/Itfl‘("(l, July. 1323. 1* (In-‘r V.
ll'ushin_u!Im Bin:/r, ‘.3 (Jr. ‘I-37. It is li0t iieCc!~".~i:ii'y to the validity
of an aliidtivit tor bail that the I't'!~‘i(l0il(‘(_' or place of abode of
the dcpoucnt should be stated in it, or that it should show the
town or county where it was taken. The rule applies to actions
of tort as \\‘t'l| as upon contract. Benson v. 11¢-mull, I Duh-/4.
166. Prllier v. W'ushin{r!on Bmik, ‘.2 Gr. 257. \Viie re thcrc are sev
eral suit.-i ii'_'lilIi.'<l[ a defendant, and an iifhdavit niade in each,
the court \\'lll not look beyond one aliidiivlt, and supply its de
fccts by Sllil('lii8IIl.\l made in anotlwr: each atiidavit must stand

by itself. lhnson \-'. Brimﬁll. I I)ulr'h. 166.
(r') it may bc taken before any person authorized to adminis

_ i-_i

ter an oath. as, in a foreign country, before ii consul of the
Uiiitcd states. S*i(.l€'l v. Pr-srhkuw, 3 Dulrh. 427. It is iiol neces
sary that the allidavit be made before the (_‘tllllllil1~iSlOllt*l' \\‘h0
grants the order. lb. .‘lfr1i'crnun v. M1-Immild. 3 Jlulrh. 542.
(ll) The iilildtivlt must disclose the true cause of action. }\'m
my v. Mute:-Ii, 2 Hur. 334, 3;-l7
'l‘in-re must be ii po:~iti\'9 simila
vlt of the debt. and the amount due.
l'mi Ktrlrails. .5‘/rm!.t, 4
Zuh. lL’l. Tin-, statement that the plaintitl believes he will be
unable to make tlicdeleiitlaiit ansiu-r for tiieallctzctl injury and
dainagc unless he be iicld to bail, wltliotit showinu any IQ;1§()|)
for that bélicf, is iui~'uﬂit‘lt.'|il. I1'+n.\mi Ellis. [hum-H,l Dulclt. ltiti.
>90 Ii'vmi(tl_0/ V. C'Iii|nmr, 2 Dulrh. 30-3. it ilillﬁt be $liO\\‘ii that
the debt is actually due at thc time of making the iiliidavil
1’url."e'r v. ()ydui, Pen. ‘H6. The nliiduvit for biiil in-ed not be
as specitlc and particular as a declaration. but it inu~t contain
such facts as show, if true, that the plaintili lias it prcsr-tit,
stiiisistiiig cause of action; It must .~l|u\\' how iinh-htcd,
and for what: it should disclose tin» cliiimctcr in wliicli the
defendant is a party to the l|lh‘ll'lllI\t'.lll..\ti tlnit Ills liability may
appear to the court ; it should be express, certain, explicit and
intelligible. An aliidavll for bail, settling lorth that the defend
ant is "indebted in a certain anioiint on his |.iI‘tilIil\'~'uI‘}' note,
and on a balance of account against liini, on the books of the
banking: coinpan_v," is liisutiiclciit, and the di-fciidant will be
discliar_'..zed on coininon bail. Pcllirr v. ll'o.slmi_ri!mi Bmik. 2 Gr.
2.37. The iitiidavit to hold to hall for mom-_v doc on articles of
agreeineiit inust slate the breach of the articles of agneeriieiit,
or the delciidiiiit will he disciiarged on common bail. -$'Irt~:n.c
v. M_rgim'e,l llul. I52. The facts must be sworn to: that a

debtor has "unla\vI'ull_\' and iiiijusi|_v" refused to apply the
inouey in his hands to the satisfiictioii ofii debt due by iiini. is
a legal propositioii to be deduced from the evidence. E1-ptirle
(‘lm-/.-, Span. MS. An atiidavlt to hold an agent to ball for mis
appropriatlng the avails of acceptances. stated the number of
bills, by whom drawn, to whose ordcr and how il1tlt)I'$0(1. b
whom accepted, the amount of each, and when they main
,
respectively. but did not state the precise date of the bills.
He/<1. that the description was suﬂiclent. Sade! v. Peschkaw,
3 Dutch. 427.

PRACTICE.

2543

58. That the writ of eapias ad respondeiiduin shall not henceforth be
awarded, issued or served in any action founded upon contract, express or
implied, except upon proof made on oath or atiiiaiiatioii, hefore a justice
of the supreme court, or a supreme court coinniissioner, that there is a debt
or demand fotindcd upon contract, express or implied, due to the plaintifff
from the defendant, specifying the nature and particiilars of said debt or
demand, and establisliing, by the Otit-ll or atlirin-.ition of the plaintiii' or some
other person or persons, to ill0S1'lt.lSii1Cll§)ll of such justice or coininissioner,
one or more of the following particulars :
First. 'l'hat the defendaiit is about to remove any of his property out of
the jurisdiction of the court in which an action is about to he coinincnced,

Arne-st in actions
on contract.

R. s. 321, 41-7.

with intent to defraud his creditors; or,

Secoiid. 'l‘hat the dcfendaiit has property or rights in action which he
fraiidfileiitly conceals; or,
Third. 'l‘hat he has assigned, removed or disposed of. or is about to
assign, remove or dispose of any of his property with the intent to defraud
his c_reditors; or, (0)

Fourth. That the defendant franduleiitly contracted the debt or incurred
the obligation respcctiiig which such suit is brought; (Ii)
And upon such proof heiiig made, it shall he the duty of tliejiisticc or
commissioner, before wlioni such proof of all or any of the said particulars
shall have been made, to lllilhc an order (c) to hold the dei'eiidaiit to bail in

such suni as shall he sworn to by the plaiiitiil' or his agent, to be due to the
plaintifff from the defeiiilaiit; and upon such order heiiig made, and upon
ﬁling such affidavits in the oilice of the clerk of the court wliere.iii the
action is about to he coiniueiiced, a capias ad rcspoiideiidiiiii may he issued
according to law as lieretoforc; proi.-iilwl, that nothing in this section shall
apply to pi'oei_-eiliiigs as for coiitcmpt to enforce civil remedies; anrl pro
ri.'rIe¢l furl/ier, that in actions on promises to marry, and actions for the
recovery of monies COliil‘('-t('(l by piihlic oiiicers, or damages for misconduct

contempts, actions
on promises to

or neglect in oiiice, the justice of the supreme court or commissioner may

conduct in oﬂice.

Proviso excepthig

marry or for mis

order the defendaiit to he held to bail in such sum as the said justice or
commissioner, under all the circiinistaiices of the case, shall think proper
to direct.
59. 'l‘hat in actions on contract against two or more defendants, where
in the aﬂidavit for hail suﬂicient cause is shown for ordering a capias ad
respoiidendum against one or more of the defendants, but not against all
the defendants, the justice of the supreme court or commissioner may
make an order in such action for the holding to bail of such of the defend
ants against whom sufiicient cause for arrest is shown; and in such case
(n) Unjnsily and unlawfully refusing to apply money or
property in the hniids of the defciidant or of another, for de
feiidaiit's use and under his control, to the S.iili~ifrlt‘li()Il ofajudi;
nieiii or execiiiion, is a fraud within the meaning of the consti
tution. E1: porn: (llnrlr,-S';nn. 648. The wllin-.~.scs must swear
to the facts or clrcunistaiices which coiisiiiiite the fraud, and
they niust amount to such ewdeiiccus \\'Ulll1i_ill\iir)' ujury in

finding a. verdict iiaaiiist the defendant for fraud. Kipp V.

Order for arrest
of one of several
defendants in ac
tions on contract.

Uiirler the Enizlish statutes respecting hail, it is held that the
power of arrest enianiites not ironi the iiiiiilavil, lint from the
caplas. But the statute of this state aholisliing iiiiprlsoniiieiit
for debt in certain cases, makes tliejudge‘s order the founda

tion of the. capias.

\Viihout the order, the pioceediiigis not

only irregular, hut the writ itself is il|l'I_.'l'li.

Hlolr v. Uiooi, 1

l)ulrh. 214. There niust he a special older, fornially adjudg
ing that there is fraud, shown lo the 5lili§i'tl|(‘lll$;,l5(il1l‘lflG COlll'iti,

Chlunlu 7 lni, Np: n, 6.36,
(oi lii order to warrant an order to hold to hail for the fraudu

or oilicer onierinz the BI‘I'P\l. Hrry v.

lent contniciiiig of a debt. there niust he some proof of such

m. is to he to the 8&lll.\ii\(.‘llUll of the jinlge oreoiiiniissioiicr.
The legality of the evidence received by him, and its applica

fniiiduleiii. intention at the time of contracting. A subsequent
refusal to nay an account will not warraiitaii iiifereiiceoffmiid
in coiitrncliiiu.
l'on Kirk aria. .S‘ImiI.¢, 4 Zuh. I'll
A statement
that dei'eiir.iaiit niaule certain reprcseiilaiioii~4 to plaiiitlif, and
that he hail disco\'ei'cd recently that they were fnl~e, is not
l>illlli(‘.i6'lJL evidence that the deht was fraudulently contracted.
Boom ads. Titus, l l'r. 310. If a man proiiiise.- to marry a
woman, and at the sanie time. or afterwards, sediices her hy
the iiiliiieiici-ot'siich proiiiise,i-nid then seeks toavoid pei'forni
aiice by attempting to run away, with intent to abandon her,
and I'Pfl‘l.\4"4 to marry her, his original promise was ii. fraud, for
which he can he held to hail. Pi-rr~_u v. Orr, 6 l'r. '29-3. Fraudu
lenily iiidiiciiiiz hisci-editors to accept a wortfiless security fora
former debt is such fraud in coiiiracting the last debt as will
authorize an arrest.
Hm |i'u_!)nirn \'. ("M 2Zuh. 531. An alle
gation from mere hearsay that the indoi.\enieiit on a note Ki\'t'l\
for goods sold is a. forgery, without uverriin: or proviniz that the
defendant knew it or commiiied it, is not siiﬂicieiit. Mch'r1'oiuii
v. .'l!r~I)oimu!, 3 Dim-Ii. 5-ii. I-‘alse and deceitful I'(f|)I'l'.'8€lllﬂliOll.'<l,
niade by way of indncenieni io contract or surrender one-‘s
figlils, are c\'id€|ice of fraud. Pilinler V. lfuuiilon, -I lloh-Ii. l‘..'.l.

1'! ,6

‘r. '

.

ll.‘ proo

of the circunistniiccs llt'l‘t'\\Bl'y to aiiihoiize ihc nwarri of a ca.
hility, may be reviewed ; but li.\l\\l'ii.(iIl8lld en-ililiility rest with
the coniniissioner.
ll'ov- v. 11‘roo_-iiin_r/.S;xn. 3|‘-4. The officer
who makes the order to hold a debtor to bail on the ground odf
fraud, is the exclusive iinlge ofthe \\'t'iL',lll ofthe cudeiicc, an
this court will not revli--\v or set a~ide his order upon the weight

pf
ega
e\l'il(_leiic1e
I‘8.ll
;"t:nt
0)’ \\‘l_i|(l’ll
\\'l
l't*\'ic\\‘
there ll.
was po
Iuit*\"‘lI_ie|i(‘P
u_m muhei'<p;V.
II,
hp;.l.|

I.

.

ll is not siuilicient for the (‘UfIlIlli\.'~'illllt'I' in decide that there
was proof, to his satisfaction, that ilie di-fciidaiit had rights or
credits, monies or ell'e<.-is, either in his own pii.~!~t’S.\iﬁll or in the

possessioii of some other persoiis ; in the words oi the act, he
should s iecify hy lll(’illl'4 of which of the several things men

tioned, t ie fraud was cuniiiiiued.

Boirm» v. 'l’i!u.\~, i l'r.3-10.

The order made by the justice or coniinlssioiier must show,
npoii its face, that he lias considered and decided npoii the
evidciice of fraud siihniilted to him, and that the proof was to
his satisfaction. Hill ads. Him/, .S'prn. 476. In a peiia.l action,
the plaiiiiiif must obtain an order, unless the statute expressly
provides otherwise. Brook/rm! v. .!om~.<, 3 Ho/. 311. ('humpi'on
v. Pu rct‘, 6 Jlul. 196. In an 0.: ]!fl1'If' aﬂidavil iiiiide for the pur

Proof hy suhseqiieiit aifidaviis, showing fraudulent transactions

pose of holding a defendant to hail, statements to which the

since the service of the writ, is incompetent. 11,.
(r) ('oniniis~iioners to take bail and atiidaviis are author
ized to make an order for the award of a capias under the
act of the 9th of March, 1542.
Wire V. Browning, Spear. 364.

ailiant could not lawfully testify in open courtarc not coin
peieni. evidence of i'i-mid. 7‘, |uIl.'!l(iS. 1*»iom. R. R. /‘o., '27 Vr.

2&5 $f)lf'Hl',7s€C- 63. See title Fiuiuus ax» PEBJ cams ante, p.
1

, ‘cc. 1 .

2544
Form of process.

Indorsement
thereon.

How served.

PRACTICE.
process shall issue against all the defendants in the action, but in form shall
command the sheriff or other officer to whom it is directed to take the
bodies of such of the defendants against whom the order for bail may be
made, and to summon the other defendants to answer; and the justice or
commissioner shall indorse on such process an order that the defendant
against whom such order for bail may be made only, shall be arrested and
held to bail, and that the writ shall be served on the other defendants as
writs of summons are served, and the same shall be executed and served

Bail bond and
proceedings
thereon.

How defendants
to appear in such
cases.
How described
ln declaration.
Pleading and
practice.
Form and effect
of the execution.

accordingly;and the bail bond to the sheriff or other officer shall be for
the appearance of the defendant against whom such order for bail has
been made, and if special bail be not put in and perfected by such defend
ant according to law and the practice of the court, an assignment of the
bail bond may be taken and such proceedings be had thereon as if such
defendant were solely liable in the action.
69. That in cases provided for in the last preceding section, the defend
ant summoned, may appear as in actions commenced by summons, and the
appearance of the other defendants shall be by putting in and perfecting
special bail, as in actions commenced by capias; and the plaintifff in the
declaration shall describe the former as served and the latter as being in
custody, and the pleadings, practice and proceedings thereafter to ﬁnal

judgment shall be the same as if all the defendants were brought into
court in the same manner; and if judgment be recovered in the action by
the 'plaintiﬁ‘ against the defendants, the execution thereon shall be special
to the eifect that the sheriff, or other officer to whom the same is directed,
shall make the debt or damages and costs of the goods and chattels, lands

and tenements of the defendants, and for want of suﬁicient goods and
chattels, whereof to make the same, to take the bodies of such of the
defendants against whom such order for bail has been made.
Proceedings on
the execution.

Proceedings
against bail.

61. That the sheriff or other oﬁicer under and by virtue of any execu
tion, issued in the manner provided in the last section, may seize and levy
on the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of all the defendants in his
county, and also take the bodies of such of them as he is commanded in
and by said writ, in satisfaction of such judgment; or the sheriﬁ‘ or other
oﬁiccr, after such levy, may, by the direction of the plaintifff, return the
execution non est inventus, in order to ﬁx the bail, and thereupon the

Ball liable only
for balance alter

npnlyins wo
ceeds of levy. _
And entitled to
an assignment of
the Judgment.

Bull may surren
der as in other
cases.

Judge may deter
mine legulily of

order for bail.

P. L. rssa, p. 402.

On motion to set
B-Bide order sum

plaintifff may proceed against the bail as in other cases; but the bail shall
only be liable for what may remain unpaid on the judgment after applying
thereon the amount made of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements
levied on, and shall be entitled. on satisfying such deﬁciency, to an assign
ment of the judgment, whereby to obtain indemnity for such payment, by
execution thereon, out of the property of any of the defendants which may
not have been levied on, or of which any of the defendants may become
seized or possessed; and the bail may surrender the defendants for whom
they are bail as in other cases, and the proceedings for, and effect of, such
surrender shall in all respects be the same as if such action had been
prosecuted against such defendants only.
62. That any judge of the court, out of which a capias ad respondendum
shall issue, at chambers, upon four days’ notice to the plaintiff or plaintifffs
or to his or their attorney, upon motion, may examine and determine upon
the legality of orders made for bail, and discharge parties illegally arrested
in civil actions.

63. That whenever application shall be made to set aside the writ upon

vita considered.
P. L. 1855, p. ms,
Q 83.
Amended.

which any defendant shall be arrested, or to discharge him from arrest, the
court or judge hearing the application shall consider and determine the
suﬂlciency, in fact as well as in law, of the proof upon which the order for
issuing such writ was founded.

Testimony to dis
prove thc s.ﬂ1cla
vits.
I’. L. 1861, p. 812,

dum, it shall be lawful, at any time within thirty days after any defendant

ciency ofafﬂdn»

91.
Amended.

64. That in actions of law commenced by writ of capias ad responden
shall be arrested by virtue of such writ,for a judge of the court out of which
said writ shall issue, upon the application of such defendant, and upon two
days’ notice in writing to the plaintifff‘ or his attorney of such application,
to make an order for the taking of testimony concerning the truth of the

PRACTICE.

2545

aﬁidavit or afﬁdavits, and proofs upon which the order for said writ was
made and said writ issued, which testimony shall be taken orally before
said judge, or in writing before any supreme court commissioner, or master
in chancery, that the said judge shall nominate and appoint, which testi
mony, when taken before such commissioner or master. shall be ﬁled in
the clerk's ofﬁce of the court out of which said writ issued; and if from

the testimony so taken, the said judge shall be of opinion that the said
writ was improperly or improvidently issued, or should not have been
issued against the defendant or defendants therein, the said judge shall
order the said defendant or defendants discharged upon common bail, or
take such order for his or their discharge from arrest or imprisonment, and
discharge of his or her bail, as the nature of the case may require, and
upon such terms as he shall deem equitable and just. (a)
65. That ﬁling special bail shall be no waiver of the right to apply for
an order to take testimony concerning the truth of the aﬂidavits upon
which the order for bail was made.

I I writ improvi
dently issued, de
fendant may be
discharged.

Filing special ball
no waiver of right
to disprove.

VI. Bail.
1. COMMISSIONERS.

66. That the justices of the supreme court, or any two of them, of whom
the chief justice shall be one, shall and may commission, under the seal of
the said court, from time to time, such and so many persons as they shall
think ﬁt and necessary in the several counties of this state, to take such
recognizance or recognizances of bail, as any person or persons shall be
willing to acknowledge or make in any action or suit in said court, in such
manner and form as the justices of the supreme court have used to take
the same; which said recognizance or recognizances of hail and hail piece
shall be transmitted to the oﬂlce of the clerk of the said court within the
time allowed by law for putting in special bail; and the said clerk shall
ﬁle and docket the same; which recognizance or recognizances of bail and
bail piece so taken and transmitted, shall be of like effect as if the same
were taken de bene esse before any of the justices of said court; and for the
taking of every such recognizance of bail and bail piece, the said commis
sioners shall be entitled to the same fees as are now allowed by law to said
justices in like cases.

Commissioners
appointed.
R. S. 856, Q l.
Amended.
Du ty.

Reeognimnce, ca,
sent to clerk.
Amended.
Effect of.

Fees.

Styled supreme
court commis
sioners.
R. S. B56.
P. L. iﬂil. p. 313.
Amended.

67. That the commissioners in the last section provided for, shall be
styled supreme court commissioners, and hereafter shall be commissioned
as such; and every such commissioner heretofore or hereafter appointed
shall have power to take recognizances of bail, and authority to administer
an oath or atﬁrmation to any person who may desire to make such oath or
aﬂirmation before him, in any cause in any of the courts of this state;
and any recognizance of bail or affidavit taken or made before such
commissioner, shall be good and effectual.

Power.

2. SPECIAL BAIL.

68. That neither the plaintifff nor any other person shall he permitted
to declare by the bye against the defendant in any action.
69. That if the defendant on a capias ad respondendum be returned in
custody, or, when produced in court, be committed by order of the court,
the plaintifff, if he have other cause of action, or any other person having
la) A party in cimody upon a I.‘!l]JHlI ml 1'I:]In|rl(ndum Issued
by ajusnce oflhe supreme court under the " .\f‘l respecting im
prlaoumenl for debt in cases of fraud,“ will nut be dischnrzed,
where, upon his own application, an order was made in lake
testimony. under which \\‘illii-wu-5 were examined coucernim:
the truth ofthe aillrlnvils and proofs upon \\’hlvh the /nu |'nrliu
writ was made, lll)|P14.'lll('ll~)\I‘l he shu\\"n.hy l|lE€'Vl(l(‘Il(‘1', that
the writslmuirl not have been suued. 1‘uIrr v. Allm, 2 l'r. 44!.

Declaration by
the bye not
allowed.
R. S. 929, Q58.
Process against
defendant in
custody.
1‘b., Q 60.

sworn to in iheoriainal affidavits, mus! he mken as irue. and
upon these, and lhese only, the question ol'dis<-iiargo is up pede

lermined.

lhmlrr v. Hmlmm, 4 Dill!‘/I. ill.

Where an urdvr

of a commissioner orjudge to hold lo hail, re-zniar on its face, is
set aside, and there is no evlrlenr-e ofnhnse of ihc |)ror-eas oflhe
court. the practice is in discharge on comruon hnil, not mquash

the \\'rii.

Hm K/1'/c ads. S'InuIs.4Zub. I22. Slilrs \'. i'mnlnmIn,

l7_ l'r. 69.

ll lhe allidavils ll|t0t|\\‘ll|l‘h an nnler fur hail is made

Cotiniter-ailillavns to show no lllflt-|iiHl||('i4.'l. or in show a recli

fturly present the question wlietiu-r the case is a prupernue i'<|l'

tnde nfdeaiiinz, nml a lolnl nivsem-e ufany fraud on the part of

n capias, the-n the flr=iPI'll|illl\iiull ofihejudge ur connnissiolier
upon their sullicienr-y cuuunl he re\'le\\'|-1i by tneausuflhe writ.

defendant. or lo cuntrnallrl the facts as sworn in i|| the orhzlnal
.al2idavit.~s, cannot be admitted at the hearing. But the facts. as

160

0 Imbau corpus.

$2112 v. 1-’r1.'-a':ur(/er, 20 Vr. 896.

2546

PRACTICE.

cause of action against the said defendant, shall issue process against such
defendant, in the same manner as if he was at large, and not in custody
or in prison; and on such process, when served, the like proceedings shall
be had as in other cases.
Whenplnlnﬂffvot
70. That the plaintiﬂ‘ shall not, in any action commenced by capias ad
itidﬁtvftgzu‘
respondendum, be permitted to declare until special bail be ﬁled and per
,,.:,,.e,_
fected, if required, or the defendant be returned in custody or brought into
Ib.,;-19.
court. on a rule for that purpose, or be surrendered by his bail, and a com
4m°“°‘*dmittitur entered, unless the said plaintifff will waive his right, and enter
such waiver on the minutes of the court; (a) and then if the sheriﬂ' or
other oﬁlcer hath returned on the said capias ad respondendum, that he
hath taken the body,or that he hath taken the body into custody, the
defendant shall be considered as in court, and may be proceeded against
accordingly.

;;‘|":‘;‘l“;)‘l'°"""'°"
ml,

9'

71. That where the plaintifff in any action shall declare for or recover a
greater sum than is expressed in the capias ad respondendum upon which
he declares, the bail shall not be discharged, but be liable for so much as is

sworn to, or ordered by the court or a judge, and indorsed on the said
process, or for any less sum which the plaintifff in such action shall recover,
together with the costs of the original action.
';‘oP:°‘*f‘l1le‘:;‘l‘-“'l‘““
72. That special bail shall be ﬁled on the return day of the capias ad
In E,2, .
respondendum, or on the day after, unless the court or a judge thereof
Amended.

shall, by a rule or order, allow further time for ﬁling special bail; and in
such case the bail shall be ﬁled within the time limited by such rule or
order. (b)

‘v“‘l’a‘l“l‘,‘Yn"°

73. That no person shall be permitted to be special bail in any such

.'_,_

action, unless he be a f'reeholder and resident in this state, and of suﬁicient

w“° “mil “°"’°
mu‘
Form of rec0¢:nl

“neg
R.S.sr.‘9,:32.

property, if the writ or process issue out of the supreme court, or if it issue
out of the circuit court or court of common pleas, unless he he a freeholder
of sufficient property and resident in the county where such court is held.
74. That no attorney-at-law, under-sheriﬂ', sheriﬂ"s deputy, bailiﬁ‘, or
other person concerned in the execution of process, shall be permitted to be
special bail in any action, except as hereinafter provided.
75. That the recognizance of special bail shall be to the effect following :
A. B. g
against - In debt (or case, or as the action may he).
C. D.
New Jersey,

county, to wit :

Be it remembered, that on the
day of
in the year of our Lord
one thousand
, C. D., E. F. and G. H., of the said county of
,
personally appeared before me, J. K., one of the justices of the supreme
court of the state of New Jersey (or one of the judges of the circuit court
or court of common pleas in and for the said county of ,

, or one of

the supreme court commissioners, as the case may be), and severally
acknowledged themselves to owe unto A. B. the sum of
(double
the sum indorsed on the writ) each, to be levied upon their several goods
and chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments and real estate, upon condi

tion that if the defendant C. D. shall be condemned in this action at the
suit of A. B. the plaintiﬂ", he shall pay the costs and condemnation of the

court, or render himself into the custody of the sheriﬂ' of said county for
the same, or if he fail so to do, that the said E. F. and G. H. will pay
the costs and condemnation for him.

Taken and acknowledged the day andl
year above written, bel'ore me, J. K.)

,

And on acknowledging the aforesaid recognizance, the bail piece shall be
to the effect following, to wit:

mm piece.

New Jersey supreme court (or

pleas).

Of the term of
, C. D., of the county of

(11) That the wnlver must beentered on the mlnutcs,see Emily

v. It-ins. Pm. '62s. A waiver may be entered upon the sheriff's
return, that the defendant, aﬂer arrest. gave bond to apply for
the beneﬁt ofthe insolvent law.

Chain" v. Clneslrr, 1 Hur. 270.

circuit court or court of common

in the year of our Lord one thousand
, is delivered to bail on a cepi corpus,
(M Atkinson v. Prlne, 17 V1‘. 31.

J. 124.

Farrmid v. Tracy, 2 N. J. L,

PRACTICE.

2547

unto E. F., of the township of
,in the said county, and G. H., of
the township of
,in the said county, at the suit of A. B. in a plea
of debt (or of trespass on the case. or as the action may be).
L. .\i., attorney for the defendant.

76. That if special bail be not put in and perfected in due time, the
plaintifff may proceed on the bail bond, or rule the sheriff to bring in the
bod of the defendant.
. That if on a return that he hath taken the body, or C. (7., the sheriff
or other ofﬂcer shall not return bail and a copy of the bail bond, or if the
plaintifff be dissatisﬁed with the bail taken by such sheriﬂ‘ or ofﬁcer, and
the defendant shall fail to appear and give special bail within the time
above prescribed, the court or a judge shall order by a rule of court
such sheriff or oﬂlcer to bring in the body of the defendant at a certain
time in said rule specified, and if the said sheriff or officer fail to do so,
he shall be amerced by the court at the next term, in any sum not

Remedy, if special
ball be not per
fected in time.
Ib., Q M.

Defective return
or unsatisfactory
bail, tic.
Ib., Q ‘.15.

Amended.
Sheriff ruled to
bring in the body,
or amemed.

exceeding the plaintifff's debt or demand, with costs, which amercement

Proceedings

shall have the’ force and effect of a judgment. whereupon an execution, in
the name and for the use of the said plaintifff, may instantly, on motion in
open court, and without any further proceedings, be awarded and issued
against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments and real

thereupon.

estate of the said sheriff or officer so amerced as aforesaid; provided, never

Sheriff may put
in special ball.

theless, if such sheriff or other officer shall cause special bail to be put in
and justified. if justiﬂcation be required, during the same term, he shall be
excused from bringing in the body,and no amercemeut shall be entered
against him on the said rule; and provided further, that this section shall
extend to persons whose oﬂice is expired, as well as to sheriffs and officers
for the time being. (IL)

78. That no sheriff or ofiiccr shall be liable to be called upon to pro
duce the body of any defendant on a capias ad rcspoudeudum, returned
cepi corpus, unless he he required so to do within six months after the
expiration of his office; and if, on such rule, he shall not bring in the
body, he may be proceeded against by amercemeut, in the manner here
inbefore mentioned.
79. That if the sheriff or oﬂicer, when ruled to do so, shall, on a cepi

corpus, bring in the body of the (lefcndatit, such defendant shall be com
mitted, and upon the entry oi‘ such committitur, the plaintifff may pro
ceed in the action, and declare against the defendant as a prisoner, or
being in custody.
80. That the sheriff or other officer in order to save himself, may put
in special bail for the defendant, against his consent; and the bail to such
sheriff or officer may do the same for their indemnity.

Limitation of
former sherli'l"s
liability.
1b., 1 48.

Body brought in,
oommittltur, &c.
Ib., Q EB.

sherlﬂ‘ may put
in special bail.
1b., I 27.

3. I-}XCEl’Tl01\'S.

81. That exceptions to special bail shall be taken and entered in the
clerk’s book within twenty days after bail filed; and in such case the
defendant shall procure his bail, to justify in eight days, exclusive, after
notice of such exception, or shall add other bail, who shall justify within
the said eight days; and an exception entered after the expiration of'the

\\’hen to be taken
Il)., Q ‘L8.

Amended.
Justification w
be made.

said time shall be of no validity.
82. That two days’ notice of justification of bail, or of new or additional
bail, and justiﬁcation thereof, shall be given by the defendant or his attor
ney. to the plaintifff or his attorney, exclusive of the day it is given, and if
Sunday intervene, three days’ notice shall be given. (b)

83. That if the bail do not justify at the time appointed, they shall be
out of court; and when they do justify, and are allowed, an order of such
allowance shall be drawn, and a copy thereof served on the plaintifff or his

Notice of justlﬂcﬂr
tion required.
Ib., E Y3.

\\'hen ball out

ofcourt.
Ib., Q 30.

attorney.
in) A sheriffwho, in answer to a rule to hrlmz in the hotly of
a rlefentiant, relurn~' illlli. he (ll§(‘llIlI'KP4l the ulefendani from

custody upon hm |{l\'illg bond anti complying \\‘lllI the require
ments of the insolvent. debtors’ act, will uol. be amerced. Luau
v. Kuskrl, 20 Vr. 158.

(hi \\'here the object oi‘ the defeiidautls ilitttltl new bail as
wellns lu_|l1§iii')', u notice that he merely lnu-nds lu perfect. bull

is not. sulhcleul.

Brown V. ll'1llt(tm.slm, 3 Jlul.

PRACTICE.

2548
When justification
not permitted
without consent.
Ib., H31.

Amended.

84. That without the consent of the plaintifff or his attorney, in cases
where the sheriff or other ofﬁcer shall be ruled to bring in the body, justi
ﬁcation of bail shall not be permitted after the expiration of twenty days
from the time when the said rule is entered and served.
4. JUSTIFICATION.

Court to make
rula forjuslifying
ball.
R. S. 856, k2.
Amended.

Bail, how to
Justify.
11.8. 929, N 33, 34.

85. That the supreme court shall make such rules and orders for justify
ing bail, and making the same absolute, as to the said court shall seem
meet, so as the cognizor or cognizors of such bail be not compelled to
appear in person in the court tojustify; but the same may be determined
by aiﬁdavit or affidavits duly taken before supreme court commissioners,
who are hereby respectively empowered and required to take the same, and
also to examine the sureties on oath or aﬁirmation touching the value of
their respective estates and to certify such justification to the court.
86. That special bail may justify by aﬁidavit in the court'out of which
the writ issued, or before one of thejudges thereof, either in term time or
vacation, or before a supreme court commissioner; which aﬁidavit shall

set forth that the bail are freeholders and residents in the state of New
Jersey, if the writ issued out of the supreme court, or if the writ issued
out of any of the circuit courts or courts of common pleas, then that they
are freeholders and residents in the county in which such court is held,
and also shall set forth that they are respectively worth so much (men
tioning the sum they are bailed for) after all their debts are paid. (a)
5. RENDER IN DISCHARGE.
When to be made
if proceedings by
scire faclas.

P. L. 1857,11. 290,
§ 9.
R. S. 929, Q42.

Amended.

Minute of render
and commitment.
R. S. 929, Q44.

Exoneretur to be
entered.
1b., 5 +5.
Notice of.

8'1. That subsequent to the return of the capias ad respondendum-,
the defendant may render himself, or be rendered in discharge of his bail,
either before or after judgment ; provided, that such render be made within
twenty days after the return day of the scire facias against the bail, or of
the process in the action on the recognizance of bail, and not after; but in
either case the special bail shall pay the costs of the scire facias or action,
and judgment for the same shall be entered against them accordingly. (b)
88. That the court or judge before whom the render is made, shall make
an entry or minute of such render and commitment; and thereupon the
defendant shall be committed to the custody of the sheriff orjailer attend
ing the said court or judge.

89. That on such render and commitment duly certiﬁed to the clerk of
the court, if in vacation, or not done in open court, it shall be the duty of

the said clerk to enter an exoneretur on the bail piece, and thereupon the
bail shall be discharged, and the said bail shall give immediate notice of
such render to the plaintifff or his attorney.
6. PROCEEDINGS AGAINST.

Aﬂer ca. sa.

90. That after a capias ad satisfaciendum shall have been returned non

returned non est,

ac.
R. S. 929, Q81.
When stayed
when writ of
error brought.

Ib., § 82.

est inventus, the plaintifff may proceed against the special bail upon their
recognizance. (0)
91. That on a scire facias or in an action of debt against the special bail.
on their recognizance, when a writ of error is brought by the principal and
allowed, and the said bail apply within the time limited for surrendering

(ll) F-es Flu-mm! v. 1‘rnr_1/.2 N. J. L. J. 1'24.
(hi Courts in England as well as in this country have gone
ihriher ll) pron-vi and relieve hall man they formerly rllrl.
Vim Wmlclr v. /lllmll. '2 Hm". 446. lfuhrwv rIn')n|.s alluwelllo
enable hull to surn-urier his principal, already in custody on a

ca. xu. in annllu-r ~\|ll. /lnonymnus. Pvn. '39l A defendant
may he rendvrv-d in discharge oi‘ his hall, nolwitlisiaiirliiiz
l‘X('l‘[IllOl|S I0 them have been entered. Annnymmu, 4 Hal. "L5.
tr-1 The supreme court follows the rules oflhc king's bench
in regard in iiiallem of ball. Arnzxlrmng v. Dunis, (hrs ll0.

-PHTKTT \'- 0:/'1'“. H‘-IL '1-‘>1.

lfmnry v. Dlulocli, 2 Ilur. 335,

Hornhlnuvrr, C‘. J. Van Winklr v. Allmn. I [Tm-. 446. Flrllier v.
Washmulon Bank, 2 Gr. 259. 394. in order to rlx the bail on:
l’91.'0§|llLlH0(‘, the sheriff‘ may be instructed Lo relurn I cu. su.
non cu mvmlu: (although he might have served ll on the

defendant), unless he be in his custody, In which mse he can
not make such return.

Vrm Wmklr v. Allmy, 2 Hm-. 446.

The

hall as well as his principal is bound lo lake notice when’ llie
venue is laid, and should search fora cu. m. In lheoﬂire nflhe
sheriffof that county, lo know whether lhv |Ilnluilﬂ'|l|li-‘nds lo

proceed b execution against lhe dcl'euda.n1‘s body.
Drake, 3 ur. 9.

Cbchnnv.

PRACTICE.
the principal, the court may stay the proceedings against such special bail,
if they enter into recognizance to the party for whom judgment is given,
in double the sum recovered, to pay the condemnation money, or surren
der the principal to the custody oi‘ the sheriff‘, within twenty days next
after the determination of the said writ of error, if it be in favor of the
defendant in error.

92. That the court shall not stay proceedings against the special bail
pending the writ of error, by their principal, if they do not make applica
tion for that purpose until their time to surrender the principal be expired.
93. That where special bail in any action are compelled to pay the judg
ment recovered against their principal, such payment shall not be a satis
faction of such judgment as in favor of the bail ; but after such payment the
court wherein the judgment was recovered on proof of payment thereof by
the bail, and upon notice to the plaintifff and the defendant in the judgment,

when application
must be made.
Ib., Q83.
Payment of_iudg
men: by bail not a
satisihction.
Court may order
Judgment to re
main in force for
benefit of boil.

may make an order that such judgment remain in force for the beneﬁt of
the bail so far as to enable them to recover the money paid by them as
bail out of the property of the defendant in the judgment, and thereafter
execution may issue on such judgment, against the property of the defend
ant, notwithstanding such payment, in the name of the plaintifff, but for
the beneﬁt of the bail ; and after the entry of such order in the minutes of
the court, satisfaction of such judgment shall not he entered of record
without the consent in writing of such bail or a special order of the court.

And execution
may issue for
their benefit.

7. mu. BOND.

94. That if any person shall be arrested by any writ, or process issued
out of any court of record, at the suit of any person or persons, and the
sheriff or other officer shall take bail from such person against whom such
. writ or process shall be taken out, the sheriff or other officer shall (if re

quested by the plaintifff in such action or suit, or his attorney) assign to
the plaintifff in such action the bail bond or other security taken from such
bail, by indorsiug on the same, an assignment under his hand and seal, in
the words or to the effect f'ollowing:(a) I, the within-named A. B., do
hereby assign and set over the within bond to the within-named C. D., the
plaintiﬂ', pursuant to the statute.
Witness my hand and seal, this i day of
, in the year of our
Lord one thousand
.
A. B. [L. s.]
And if special bail be not put in and perfected in due time, the plaintifff,
after such assignment, may bring an action on the said bail bond, or other
security taken for bail in his own name; and the court in which the
action is brought, may, by rule of court, give such relief to the plaintifff
and defendant in the original action, and to the bail upon the bail bond,
or other security taken from such bail, as is agreeable to justice and

Asignment oi’
hail bond.

R S. 835, {16.
"

929, Q35.

Amended.

Form of.

Plaintiff may sue
in his own name.
Court may grant
equitable relief’.

reason; and such rule shall have the nature and effect of a defeasance of

such bail bond or other security for bail. (b)
ml An assignment ofabaii bond by a sheriff. under his hand
and seal, in t e resence of two persons who actuall witnessed

made and ﬂied. is had. Hun! v. Allm, 2 Zab. 511, -'iI.uL|. 618. The
sheriff having arrested the defendant bg virtue of a rupins ml

the transaction, s a compl lance with the statute, alt ongh only

rexpmulziulum, and taken a bond for
is appearance to the
action, may refuse to acce t a surrender of‘ the body of the do
fendant: but if the defen ant voluntarily surrenders himself
to the sheriff before the return day of the writ. the sheriff

one ofsuch persons subscribes his name as a witness. Bletbdrey
v. Kepptenl Vr. H0.
(bi A plaiutiifhaving obtained an assignment ofihe bail bond
given to the sheriﬂ by the defendant on his arrest, must brin

may acce t such surrender.

By such surrender and accept

is action on the bond in the same court in which the orig nal action was pending, unless some special circumstances

ance the
ii are discharged: and if the plaintifff obtains an
assignment of the hail bond, and brings an action on it,

exist i0 warrant adeparture from this rule.

the court will stay proceedings and order the bond to he
canceled. Flrnvw.-n v. Shinnnr, 5 Vr. 455. Judgment must be

nurr, .5 l'r. 455.

I~"lnrnu‘e v. Shu

See Hughes v. Hugltu, Pm. ‘$77, Plrnnmglan, J.

A suit on r
nlmnoe of bail may be instituted in a court
other than that in winch the recognizance was taken. In such
suit, the process must be to answer to a lea ofdebt. “ upon
recognizance" in order to apprise them 0 their situation and
protect them from surprise, otherwise the defendant will not
be bound to accept a declaration upon a recognizance oi‘ hail.
Van Winkle v. Allfna. 2 Hm". 446. The assignee of the sheriff
may bring suit on the bail bond in his own name: it is not
necessary that he should be styled assignee in the writ. Ilunt
v. Allen, 2Z<|b. 533. In an action on a bail bond, it is not neces

sary to aver in the declaration that an aﬂidavlt of‘ the cause of
act on had been made and ﬂied before issuing the caplas in the

suit in which the bond was given. Anti lfthe declaration con
tains no such svermeut, a plea that no such aﬂidavlt had been

entered for the penalty ofihe bond. Hun! v. Allin, 2 Zah. 538.
Upon a hall bond for an amount greater than the sum sworn
lo, the debt, interest and costs may be collected, although they
exceed the sum sworn to. Allen v. Hnnl, 8 Zuh. 376. ll‘ suit on
s ball bond is instituted in another court and no objection is
interposed by the sureties, they cannot obtain relieffrom p ylng
the full amount of the penalty. .S'imm0n8 ads, Kulu. 10 '1-. 438.
Bail are entitled to relief when the surrender of the principal
is made impossible by the act ofthe law.where the plaintifff
loses nothing by the omission of any act which it is in the
ower of the hail to perform. Slcrlmun v. Mum.-r,9 Vr. 2-i1.
'hen a defendant who had been arrested u.-uler a mpmr ad
1'r.tp0||rl!.||dum in a civil suit, and has given hall to the sheriff. is
afterwards. and before the return day of the process, arrested

2550

PRACTICE.
95. That the proceedings on the bail bond may be set aside, if irregular,
or stayed, it regular, upon terms, in order that a trial may be had in the
original action. (a)
96. That where the plaintifff has not lost a trial in the original action, by
reason _of special bail not being ﬁled in due time, the court or a judge may

Proceedings set
aside or stayed.
R. S. 929, Q 36.
Where plalntltf

has not lost trial.
Ib.. Q 37.
Amended.

stay the proceedings on the bail bond, upon putting in and perfecting

special bail, paying the costs incurred by the assignment and prosecution
of the bail bond, receiving a declaration in the original action, pleading

Where plalntlﬂ‘
has lost trial.
l'b., { 38.

Amended.

When not stayed.

Ib., Q $9.

How special bail
put ln, &.c., utter
Inches.
Ib., Q-I0.
Amended.

issuably, and taking short notice of trial, so that the cause may, if the
plaintifff desires it, be tried the same term at which it might have been tried
if special bail had been ﬁled in season.
97. That where the plaintifff has lost a trial in the original action, for the
want of special bail being ﬁled in due time, it shall be the duty of the court
or a judge before proceedings be stayed on the bail bond, further to require
that the bail consent that judgment be entered against them on the bail
bond, for the plaintiﬂ"s security; and in such case, if the defendant fail in
the original action, the bail shall be liable to immediate execution, and
shall not discharge themselves by a render of the principal.
98. That if the plaintifff might have had judgment in the original action,
if bail had been ﬁled in due time, then the proceedings shall not be stayed
on the bail bond.
99. That whenever the defendant is guilty of a neglect in not putting in
special bail whereby the bail bond becomes forfeited, the notice, in case
the party means to put in special bail in order to stay proceedings upon
the bail bond, shall be, that he will put in and perfect special bail, in open
court, or before a judge thereof, on such a day, specifying the day; and
in that case the plaintifff may oppose the bail without its being a waiver of
the bail bond.
8. DEPOSIT IN LIEU or BAIL.

Defendant may
make deposit with
the sheriﬂ‘ ln lieu
of ball.

Deposit repaid if

defendant put in
special ball.

100. That any defendant, who may be arrested by virtue of a writ of
capias ad respondcndum, shall be allowed, in lieu of giving bail to the
sheriff, to deposit in the hands of the sheriﬂ' or other oﬂlcer making the
arrest, the sum indorsed on the writ by virtue of the aﬂldavit, to hold to
bail together with thirty dollars to answer for costs, and thereupon he shall
be discharged from arrest; and the sheriff or other oﬂlcer shall, at the return
of the said writ, pay into court the money so deposited with him, which
shall remain in court subject to the order of the court; and in such case the
defendant shall be permitted to appear to the action without ﬁling special
hail, or his appearance may be entered by the plaintiff without a waiver of
his right to bail; provided, that the making of such deposit shall not pre
vent the defendant making application to set aside the writ or order for
arrest, the same as may be done where bail is given to the sheriff.
101. That if the defendant, who shall have made a deposit in lieu of
bail to the sheriﬂ‘ as is provided for in the last section, shall, at the return

of the writ, duly put in and perfect bail to the action according to the
practice of the court, or if the writ or order for arrest shall he set aside, the
money so deposited and paid into the court, shall, by order of the court,
on n crlmlnal charge, nnii is nﬁerwardiii Indicted nml convicted
and seiiteiiceil in ilie state prli-ion, the hall lo the slii-rlﬂ‘ninyoh
lain an exoni-riiilon of their linhiliiy on the ball hond by first
ﬂllng special l>.iili:ind iheiisiirreiitlerliig the principal by nieuns
of a lull»-in mrpui-, while iheprlncipnl is llljiill under c0inuiil~
ment. upon the crinilnzil clinrge, or hy inotloiiullerliels put

under sentence.

Alknimn v. I’: mr, I7 l'r. 'l‘l. lluil to ilicslierilf

who have bei-ii misled by procecillinpilii coiiri for their exonera
tlon ll‘l’P1{l|llll"|y taken wlihoui special bail helug llled, and the

prluclpnl hi-iiis; brought into couri Ivy Imhmx mrpm for ilic pur
pose of |\ §lll‘l't'll<lt'l‘, may oblnln rcllef, by an application lo the

court under this section. lb. A wrli, oferror \\'lll lie upon an
order of llIt' court made in n cniiw I~‘\'llll|i.; l\.'<ll(lP proceeillngs
abﬁaliisi hull and exonerziilng ihem from llahilliy on ilie bail
lli . Ila.

(fl) Such lrreziilarlty may be taken advantage of by a sum
mary appllcnilon to the coiiri to .\('l usiilc the procci-dliiizs. Flor
"Icr v. Sliiminr. 5 l'r. -I55. lf.'i siirrcnrler. of/rr the n-iurn day, he
accepied hy the sheriff, the court will siny any proceedluizs on

the mill bond, nud orilerltiohe Cﬂ|l('\‘ll‘(l. Fh.rmn- \'. .S'hmuur,
5 l'r. 460. The waiiit ofn. rri. m. uguiiisi. the principal, cannot be

taken advantnize of hy the ball, on motion: it is matter 0|'suh
siniiceniid Illllhll!('|1ll'll(lk'(l. G»-A1-an \-. l1ml.r, 3 lIur.9. Ball can
lnkv nilviiiitage ofnn irregulnriiylu l.\.\‘lllll.L','llI‘l|. .m. ngiiliist thi

0l'l1_'llIlll(|v'|€'lIllﬂIil<.rL<ll is in iiii-iuiiuri-oi‘uoiice in lllI‘lil. ii
is the >4-illul |ii'iii~ti('c in this sluic. llinl lhe ru, m. Slllllllll be in
the h.'inil.sofI.lieofficerfour ilnys lu-l‘ofi- llll‘ rein rn lliert-of. Iimlm
v. ('h:rhra1er, l I-‘r. M9.

zllllw/Iilllﬂ v. hm ix, (hi! H0.

\\'here

ihecourt-wassatislieil ihnl.tlir-di~l'ci|dniii nnil his hull \\t'l'l'il|l In»
solvent, they ]'l*r\lN‘ll to orilern -Vi: nfmmn. Muir \-. ¢ln1nu/nlnut,
l Hm’. 437. This court may, by vlriue ofthe ||I('llll‘llli\l p0\\ 1-rs
appertaining lo its coiisliiiitlon and jiirisdiclloii, L',l'Illll ri-lii-I to
hi-iii, on pet tion. when not restrained by unlit-jusili-e. ivlii-re
tliedefiiult ofthe principal was occaslnni-d ii * .\‘l(?klN‘.\\0|' deaili.

The death of the principal aflvr forfeiliire ofliis re-cognizance.
cannot he ph-ndi-d io a :irir¢‘/'ur|4l.r. The runieily ls by |N‘llll0l\
I0 ill? ¢0lll‘l for I‘Qli0|'. B‘/nlrv. }lfrl‘\'rnI, 3 Ilur. 3.11. /llm.Vrm4ll
v. Doris. (Turn 110. lftheprlnclpal dii-il helon-the recoiznlrance
wiis forfeltcil. It niust he so pleaded. Slim v. Prmir, 2 Ilur. l9l.

The court iiiny lll\(‘l‘|t'l’I‘ in u siinimnry way io prevent an im
proper use ofita own records, or to l‘0lM.JI.|)BiL Sotomonads.
Gri;/ory, 4 liar. H2, H5, IVIiiIe=Imul,

PRACTICE.

2551

be repaid to the defendant : but otherwise shall remain subject to the order
of the court, and if the plaintifff recover in the action, shall he applied in
satisfaction in the whole or in part, as the case may be, of thejiidginent
recovered; and if the plaintiﬁ' shall recover for debt or damages together
with costs a sum exceeding the amount of such deposit, he shall be entitled
to issue a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, and to collect thereon the bal
ance remaining duc on the judgment; but if the defendant recover judg
ment in the action the sum deposited and paid into court shall be repaid
to him.

102. That any defendant who may have given bail to the sheriff, or
who shall have been siirrendered by his bail before judgment in the
original action may, in lieu of ﬁling special bail or renewing bail, make
deposit into court of the sum for which bail was ordered, together with
thirty dollars, to answer for costs, which monies shall be held and applied
as is mentioned in the last preceding section.

Defendant who
has given ball to
sheriﬂ‘ or been

surrendered, may
make deposit.

VII. Pleading.

103. That the plaiiitilf shall ﬁle his declaration against the defendant
within thirty days alter being returned summoned, or after entering of
special hail, and perfecting the same, or his being returned in custody, or
the entering of a committitur or waiver of bail, or on failure thereof, shall
become nonprossed, unless the court, under special circuinstauces, shall
grant the plaintiff fiirtlier time ; and in such case, the plaintifff shall declare

Declaration, when
to be ﬂied.
R. S. 929, Q50.

within the time so granted, or become nonprossed. (a)

ﬂi 104. That the defendant shall file his plea within thirty days alter the
expiration of the time limited or granted for ﬁling the declaration, or on
failure thereof, judgment shall be entered against him, unless the court
under special circumstances shall grant the defendant further time; and
in such case the defendant shall plead within the time so granted, orjudg
ment be entered against him. (1))

105. [Amended by Sec: 320, post]
106. That the service of a copy of the declaration in the last preceding

Plea, when to be
ﬂied.
Ih., Q 51.

Copy, how served

section mentioned may be made by delivering the same to the defendant
personally, or by leaving it at his dwelling-house or last place of abode;
and where the defendant is a corporation, service may be made by deliver
ing the same to the president or other head officer, or to the secretary or
clerk thereof, personally, or by leaving the same at his dwelling-house or
place of abode; and the plaiiitilf, if he shall be entitled to costs in the

P. L. 1372, p. 37.

cause, shall be allowed for such service the sum of two dollars for each

collected.

Fees for, how

defendant
so served,
the taxed bill
of costs.not
(dc) exceeding three, and the same to be included in

(n) It is lrreirnlar to ﬁle a declaration before the return day
of the siiinnions, and a jiidgnieui entered in vacation on such
declaration will be set aside. Brown v. Drawn, 3 Zoo. 4&3 The
time allowed by law for lilting a plea is given for the beneﬁt of

the di-l'+~iidani, and lie may waive ll, and consent lhatajudg
ment be entered against him before iliellnie for pleading has
expired. Homir! v. ll'nlIm-r,4 l)uIr-h. 5‘..'.-‘l. The provisions of
the law and the course of practice require the defendant to look
to the files of the court, not only to see when ihi-declaration
was lileil, but what it contains; and a party is entitled to no

redress for a variance in a copy oi a pleading fiirni.-lied by the
attorney of the opposite party, or anyone else beside the clerk.
H0111 II v. lv‘oMnm.s, 2 Smllh. ‘bis, '5-'32. A notlce to )lt'i\(| cannot

be served uniii after a declaration has been duly

led.

Bi own

v. 1)uw~, 3 Zrm. -ml. \\’lien the practice as to tiling plead
ings 95l2ll)ll.~'lIP\l by the practice act, is once broken in upon,
the Eimlisli practice of ruling your adveisar 'to pleiid must
be pu|\ued. Hlrry ads. (tilmmin, 2 Hol. I35.
Vhere a del'eiiil

ant lites a set-oﬂ‘, if the plalniilf does not ﬁle a replication in
due time and put. the cause at issue, the court will grant a rule

name a plea had been ﬁled, and lie denied that he was defend
ant's atioriiey. on motion of attorney of the pialnllﬁ', it was
ordered that, on ﬁling aﬁidavii of ll('|'Plldlllll'8 noii-residence,
und pulling up in the clerks oﬂice a notice that he ﬁle a plea,

&c..ou his failing to do so, the plalutiﬂ‘ may proceed in the
cause. .-lnon_i/mous,l I-liir. 396. A copy oftlie rule must be served

on the defendant.

Hmilrr v. Ilium, 2Sou/Ii. ‘Th.

And the copy

must beuiideriliealgiiature ofihe clerk. .S'imM.~rr v. Quit-/.-,1 Hr.
2-i-3. Bee Jluruooil V. Simlliiirsl, 2 l'!. 50'}. Rule 10 plead must
be served on di-l‘endanl's attorney, though lie was in court
when the rule was lnken.
ads, Jnll. l Hui. I6», Roles to
plead on or belore a .-pi-ciﬁed day, or wiihiii so niany days after

service thereof, expire. if not served belore the eiisiiinu term ;
and n new rule must be taken before the party can go on with
his suit
On defendant's neglect to plead wiiliiii the time speci
ﬁed in the rule,_ludgment by default must be eiiti-red at the
ﬁrst term alter the service of the rule, or a new rule must be
taken and pursued. 1IoI.w_i/ ads. Mi/Irr,1 Ilio. 63. A defend
ant liaviiu; notlce of such rule, lnust lake iiiuely advantage of
its not being puisued, and not i-aiilfer It to slee 1 several terms,

on the plainiil in reply. and in case of failure to comply with

or he will be denied his motion to dismiss the llll oi‘ privilege.

the rule, will allow the defeiiduiit to put the cause at ls.~iie, and

alter such issue joined, ll‘ the plalntilf do not bring the cause

lb. \\'liere the defendant stipulated " to iplead in ten days,"
and ﬁled a special demurrer within that time, the court held

lo trial, the defendant may ha\ e a. trial by proviso. 1'.‘-wllails.
I-'rmiA-Im, 5 Do/rli.
A motion for time to plead is a special
motion requiriin;iwodays' notice. Trenton Ins. Co. ads. Iloilors,
4 Znh. 073
And the grounds ofthe motion ought lo be \'eriIietl
byaffidavit. Ih. Rule-siopleudshoulil herein-wed from term to
is-'rm until they are served. &ix.1mhiirnIi ads. .s'/too r, 2 Ilol. 170.
\\'llt‘l'B a notice of trial was served on an attorney in whose

in‘/I, 2 (Ir. 3-H. A judgment overniliin; adeinurrerhavlnz been
rendered in the absence ofdemurrauiis counsel, he was allowed
to plead aiiewat the next term. John.-ion ads. Rowan, 1 Hm‘.
2131'». See (mlr, p. 1?.S."l, note (r), and p. I730, note (c).
(I1) Bee Rules of Supreme Court 81, ts'.'..

that he had not complied with his slipiilutlon.

ll'1I.-ih v. li'Im-),ff‘) See Dock V. Eli.-tube /hlown Jllunufg. (D., 5 Vr. 312.

PRACTICE.

2552
1-‘urther pleadings,
when ﬂied.
R. S. 929, Q El.

107. That if further pleadings shall be necessary, they shall be ﬁled
within thirty days, each after the other, or on failure thereof, the like

judgment as aforesaid shall be entered against the party so failing, unless
the court under special circumstances shall grant further time as aforesaid.

To amend plead

1118‘!
1b., g 61.

108. That if the plaintifff amend his declaration, the defendant shall
have twenty days to alter his pica or to plead anew; and if the defendant
amend his plea the plaintifff shall have twenty days to alter his replication
or to reply anew; -and the like time shall be allowed if any of the subse

Amended.

quent pleadings be amended; but all amendments shall be made on such
equitable terms as the court shall direct.
Parties to take
notice of pleadings
ﬂied in time.
Ifﬂled out of time,
rule to plead there
to required.

1b., Q5-I.
Amended.

109. That parties shall take notice of the ﬁling of the pleadings in the
cause, which shall have been ﬁled within the time prescribed, without
service of a copy or notice of the ﬁling thereof.
110. That if any party shall not ﬁle his pleading in the cause within
the time required by law, and shall ﬁle the same after the expiration of
such time, he shall give the adverse party notice, in writing, of the time of
ﬁling such pleading, and the adverse party shall not he required to plead
or reply thereto until ruled so to do. (a)

Subsequent plead
ing not required in
shorter time than
thirty days.
1-‘lied together.

R. S. 940, t 70.
Advantage of
failure to ﬂle
pleading to be
taken at next
term.

111. That in cases where any declaration, plea, or other pleading shall
be ﬁled after the time allowed by law, no subsequent pleading shall in any
case be required in a shorter time than thirty days from the time of the
service of a rule to plead or reply thereto.
112. That the declaration, pleadings, and other papers relative to every
cause shall be all ﬁled together in the oﬁice of the clerk of the court.
113. That if any party would take advantage of the failure of the adverse
party in not ﬁling his declaration, plea or other pleading, within the time
prescribed by law, he shall take such advantage at the term next after such
failure, by moving the court for the judgment to which he is thereupon by

Revision.

law entitled; and if he fail so to do, it shall be considered as a waiver of

his right, and he shall not afterwards have such judgment, unless he shall
rule the party to plead; which rule may be granted by the court or by a
judge in vacation. (b)
Defendant to ﬂle
aﬂltlavlt with plea
or demurrer.

P. L. lﬂbi, p. Z88,
Q 85.

Dilatory plea to be
veriﬁed.

p'*'7.. ..

114. That the defendant in every action at law shall ﬁle with his plea or
demurrer an aﬁidavit that the same is not intended for the purpose of
delay, and that the afiiant verily believes that the defendant hath a just
and legal defense to said action on the merits of the case, which affidavit
shall be made by the defendant, or 'in his absence may be made by his
attorney or agent in the action, and for want of such atﬁdavit the plea or
demurrer shall be treated as a nullity; provided, however, that the court,
or a judge, may give the defendant leave to plead or demur without ﬁling
anv affidavit therewith. (c) [See Secs. 330 and 357, post]
115. That no dilatory plea, or plea of another judgment, shall be
received, unless the party offering such plea, do offer therewith to be ﬁled,
an aﬂldavit proving the truth thereof; or do show some probable cause to
the court to induce them to believe that the matter therein set forth is
Q-an-4
,_’_

true. (d)
Speciﬁcation of
defense untler the

general issue.

'

Revision.

116. That where a defendant in an action of assumpsit pleads the general
issue alone, or in connection with other pleas, the plaintifff shall be at
liberty, by a demand in writing, to require a speciﬁcation of the defenses
intended to be made under such plea of the general issue, and the defend

ant shall thereupon, within twenty days after such demand, furnish the
(nl If pleadings are ﬂied nﬂer the thirty days allowed by the

not veriﬁed by aiﬂdnvit, there must he offered other sntlanm.

practice not have expired (although notice is given of the time
of tiling same ). they may he treated as nullities. Anm1yul0lA,2

lury proof of the truth of the plea. }h.w-mt V. Srhnohy, 2 lnm-)|_
46!, -If-2. A plea in abatement of anolht-r action
nding. for
lhe same cause, In another slate, must be veriilw hy ﬁll nﬂ1_
davlt, or nccoinpanied hya record of the proceediitgs in such
action, under the soul of the court, and properly anlhenlicntcxi
under the act Ofcomtrcss; nthcrwiese the plea Inn)" he treated rm
a nullity, or lakcn atlvnntngc of either hy gt-nernl or special
demurrer. 7‘rrnInn Bunk v. Wnllncr, 4 Ilul. 53. This section

Ilul. 7&9.

Ht-omtlr,

. list, note (1'), and p. i730, note (r).

rh) If the plnint if dot-s nut lake his Jnthzmt-nl by default,
b('llIi'\' or dnrnn; the l(‘l'|ll next nfier the (it-|'entla||t‘s failure i0
||l1:;\I|, he (‘.\n||ui tliert-nfu-r have such ]l|Kil(lllt'|‘ll, unless he ﬁrst
rule the dt-fcltdunt in |tl(>:ul.
ii'hitmt/ v. 1|/!1‘('hll7II.i' Nulnmurl
[inn/c, ll l'r. 451. SP? Hunt V. Ehll, iii .\'. J. I.. J. ‘L19.
(rt In .'l('ii\i|lS upnll untilracts, the nilltlnvit to n joint plea or
rh-mun:-r ltiilllv by one or more of sevt-|'nidefet1d:\||:s,ls n sub
t<l;t|||t.tl \'un||>|i:tuce with the statute, and ll cannot he treated as

a nullity.

jllll/ll‘ l't(l~4. S'!nlnmn,6 W. ~lF-7.

An atlitlm-it to a

|\lv.\ nr rlcmnrn-r put ill h_\' n ('t>l‘|)Ofl\li(ll\ is ifl\\lfﬁ(!ll‘l\l il' mudc
n_\'.'\n I\ilI||'lll'_\' or nuvnl III the Suit, lliil('\\ ll r~lm\\‘~4 lhnt the
ullim-N ht’ the (‘l|H‘l[)ilil)'$lfl‘ﬂiI54‘Ill. Mr-1mmr v. l’nm.<_|,I|~|mm
um! .\'. E. It’. It’ H... I‘: l'r 4-.‘
,1!) ln njtmlct-‘s Court tfn plea of n. former action pt-ndlng ls

which I'l't|\llf('S dilatory picns to he verified by aﬂldavit, npplie5'
only to dilatory pleas whether pleaded in nhatemcnl or in hm
lt docs not apply to 1 ens which nrc not dllniory pleas, aitlmugrl
they are, in form, p 935 in nhalement. lhrhx v. JiIr(‘lIIIl|n 15
l'r. -‘>52. A plea in tlmver that the tlemnndnnt dlcd before sh",
rmnmenced is not a dilator)’ ph-n, and hf‘l‘1i not he \'l‘I'lﬂ(_>(] by

I\lilli<l1\\'lll.i1}though it concludes with at prayer of Juagmem 0;
t ewr L.

b.

PRACTICE.

2553

plaintifffs attorney with a speciﬁcation in writing of the defenses intended
to be made under such plea; and at the trial the defendant shall, under
such plea, be conﬁned to the subject-matters of defense contained in such
speciﬁcation; and in case of the neglect or refusal oi‘ the defendant to
furnish such speciﬁcation within the time limited, he shall not be permitted
under such plea to give in evidence any defense except a denial of the

Defense under
such plea conﬁned
to matters speci

ﬂed.

making of the contract sued on; provided, that where the ends of justice

Proviso that court

require it, the court, or any judge thereof, may at, or at any time before,
the trial, and upon such terms as shall be equitable, permit the defendant
to serve such speciﬁcation when the time above limited has expired, or to
amend the speciﬁcation which siiall have been served.

or judge may per

117. That the defendant in any action, except in cases of mutual deal
ings, may plead the general issue, and give any special matter in evidence,
which, if pleaded, would be a bar to such action upon giving notice, with
such ilea, of the matter so intended to be given in evidence. (a)
11 . That the plaintifff in repievin, and the defendant in every other
action, may plead, in any court of record, with leave of the court, as many
several matters as he shall think necessary for his defense; but if on
demurrer any such matter be adjudged to be insufficient, or ifa verdict be
found on any issue in such action for the plaintifff, costs shall thereupon
be awarded by the court. (b)
119. That where the defendant pleads the general issue, and gives notice

mit amendment.

Defendant may
plead general lmue
and give notice.
R. S. 951, Q2.
Deiendant may
plead several
pleas.

R. S. 961, Q 1.

Vvhere defendant

with it of special matter which he intends to give in evidence in bar of P'““"F°“°"“
issue with notice

the action, the plaintifff shall, within thirty days after ﬁling such plea, or of special matter,
within such furtiier time as be may be granted by the court or a judge, ﬁle piaintiﬂ’ to give
a written notice to the defendant of any special matter which he intends notice oi‘ special
matter in avoid
to give in evidence in denial or avoidance of such special matter so given ance,
&c.
notice of by the defendant, and which it would have been necessary to 1». L. 1855, p. zss,
reply specially had the defendant’s defense been specially pleaded, or else iae.
be precluded from giving the same in evidence; and such notice, both of
plaintifff and defendant, shall be copied as a part of the circuit record, and
recorded with the pleadings. (c)
120. That the plaintifff in any action may, by leave of the court, or a Plalntiﬂ may
double.
judge, plead in answer to the plea or subsequent pleading of the defendant reply
P. L. 1857, p. 296,
as many several matters as he shall think necessary to sustain his action ; ,,_
provided, that the costs of any issue either in fact or law' shall follow the
0;‘) rfilur statute ta iigrilidistf piieapingslwu I10‘! lti\QrDd':Id((:
suioseor- rm ie es-nan lo venotceo s
s
niaiu-r when ‘ihe general issue is the gm. and only plea hut
to enable him, limit-ad of using I special plea, to introduce,
by way of notice aubjoined io the general ssue, miuu-rs

laintiI‘s title h snrvivorship, will be overruled, with costs.
gm,-y v, Bmrii 2 v'i'. '."Z.

(0) A defendant cannot plead specially and trlve nnilce ofiho
same subject-mailer. bill ihe conri will put him io his election
either to abide by his plea or notice.

ll). Slnle Brink v. Uh€1lI.'00Il_ .1 Hal. l.

i’..'°l’§'...Ti’c'..i’§‘£§"..l‘.i"r“tr‘.2;""
. £7i7i£°v"'li.‘5'/"‘
.
n, ii"!
u . ‘iii. '“é‘“'i}
uc
notice should not amount to the general issue. lb. Where
a defendant, together wlih ihe general issue. gives notice
of special mailer under the statute, the notice should coii
taip onlaspfh matie§.a;\, iaf leapzesd, Xenia be glbﬁrwtha
scion.
r rnumv.
r ,
a.
.
no cew c seges
a custom in the iniiabltiihts of a town, for all
raonsto do
certain acts by prescription in a quv estate, is
, for that
part of the common lnw relating to rl htssocruin by cuswm
and prescription has nut been practi
orsdopted u this state.
lh. Agéthinig u-men wouiid be BTlll"l8.ill3l'?;£1l\lb8ll‘D§[6(,ul'llIl£lQk
lIlll§l

om tlet

H IL not cc.

i uu V.

/Ion,

.

notice nrziay presenrt as miapy :03; ndegttdefeililsfls pa could be
set u
way as
0 much
spec a aspin
e atpfea,
n .
u that
eac it may
e ense
mus
standpbyyitself
so
plainly
appear where one defense ends an another begins. lb. Fraud
may be given in evidence by a defendant under ihe general
issue, without giving previous notice : or where ihcts are inter
mixed with matier o law, ma be pleaded specially, or notice
be given under the statute. ii no notice begiven, the
ri.icu
lars must be opened to the court at the time of the tria , that it
may be seen whether they amount to fraud.

Ih.

lfprevioua

written notice of particu am be given, itstandsin ihe
an opening, and the court must

udicate on its su

lace of
ciency.

Jh. The panieiilars must be shown n a notice as fully as in an
opening. lb. l\othing can be good in a notice that would not
fomi agood plea in bar. Mill:-rv Hub-ry, 2 Hr. 46. l\i|ii(‘e of

Bromw v. ﬂlurlull, -1 Ifnl.

Comp v. Allrn, 7 Hul. 1.

The pleader ought to stale that iiiemiilliioiiol pleasure ﬂied “b
leave of the Ouurl." ttliluuigh such leave is never,in ihei. ask .

(.pppn-iluamt v. ])HIII!Il!l‘,3 J-Iur. ?.'>‘l,zs0. Parka v. .'|I('!'[1lIvm|
15 Vr. 552. It is nut II\'t‘(‘\‘iIlI')' i0 mid “according to the form of
ihesiatuie in such case madi-and provided." (humvr v. Tlndnll,

Spin. 513; case atil mu-d,l lab. 65i. To iin information in the
nature ofa qua wturunlo. the defendant can plead butone plea

Slnlr v. Roe, ‘Z Dulrh. 2i.'i. Where, uponagenerai and s clal plea.
l€B(lQ-‘(1,BI!d is-.-ue oined on both,averdictls foun generally
or ihe pialntiil', an the special lea isauch that ifitwere true a.
verdict ought. not to he found

or the plaintiffﬂtheomisslon to

tind upon the
iai issue is matter ofform only. BI‘Hll‘IliIiﬂ
v.SIc1llmnn, 4 I-D. 351 in an action ofiresposs .c.]., the (it-.~
fendauts pleaded (1) uotgullty and (2)1101. mi. w ih a u.-uii'ica
tion; the jury found the defendants gulliy under the rst plea,
and not guilty under the second. Held, that the ﬁndings were
inconsistent; that nujudgment could be rendered thereon, and
a new trial was awarded. Turner v. Emily. 4 Z10. M-I. In
general, a defendant will bealiowed topic-ad, in (lifferent pleas,
as many subsianiially different grounds of defense as may be
thought necessary, although they appear to be contradicior
and nconsistent. The courts, in allowing or rlisallowing sue
pleas, are controlled entirely by theconsideraiion wheihersnch

leading will hinder, delay or embarrass a fhir trial. Parks v.
r('I:Jlun, l-5 Vr. 552. \l\'iih respect to sirictpieasinabniement
\vhich are dilatory pleas, and tend to delay atrial on the merits,

special matter with plea ofgeneral issue, is no purl ofihe record.

ihe court will not grunt leave io plead several pleas oi‘ this
class, or to plead such a plea with a plea in bar. Ih. A pien in

ﬂnvlnon v. S!‘hrnrIr, Pm.

abatement cannot he joined with aplea in bar to the same do

"-134.

In a suit on a r0l'l-'l2I|_]ll(|§'

mcnt ll is regular to lend nil ileiw, and iogive notice_ihut no
summons was serv
on defendant in the suit in \\;lli(‘lI such

mand.

Kn-1' v. ii'|!I1tI.|, l9 1'1: 78.

A

(vi In an action of tres ates for assault and fal~elmprisnn
ment. the defendants pl
the general issue. with notice that
they would prove that they arrested the plaintifffb force ofthe

i‘°“°°
%'i.i"§
ore an ‘$1.’? li'§‘zi‘§‘$“3
1
a n °.‘i.‘;°'.“‘l§
io . ‘i§.‘.'.'fi.l‘.li;.‘i"‘i'.‘.’.‘i$
declaration. without showing ihai there had been a purcliase

writ therein described. llrltl, that ii‘ ihe plainli intended to
avoid that defense by showing an abuse of the process, it was

by settlement. a receipt oi ihe money by ilu-hushuri_d in h_|~ life
time, an asaigninent by him for a valuable consideration. a

necessary for him to tzlve notice of such intention to the
defentiauu. litum v. Lloyd, 2| Fr. 5.

judgment was recovered.

Brain v. BI1-r_i/ninn, 1

lr. 2i_ﬁ.

release of the debt, or any other special matter to defeat the

PRACTICE.

2554

ﬁnding or judgment upon such issue, and be adjudged to the successful
party whatever may be the result of the other issue or issues. (a-)
Actions consoli
dated.
R. S. 929, Q 59.

121. That the defendant at any time bei'ore issue joined may move the
court to consolidate unnecessary actions, or to strike out superﬂuous counts
in the declaration. (Ii) [See Sec. 289, p0sl.]

Issue joined, &c.

122. That whenever any pleading concludes to the country, issue shall

P. L. 18.57, p. 288,
Q 37.

be considered as joined thereon, unless a demurrer be ﬁled thereto, and a
similiter, when necessary, may be added at any time. (0)

Copy of writing
annexed to decla
ration cures defect
in setting it out.

P. L. 1857, p. 296,
Q6.

Pleading in libel
and slander.
P. L. 1855, p. ‘L88,
Q ‘J6.

Breaches of con
dition to be
assigned.
1b., Q28.
Performance of

123. That if any writing, whereof a copy is annexed to the declaration,
plea, or notice of set-oii', or other notice, be referred to in the body of the
pleading as so annexed, the said copy shall cure any defect by reason of
not setting forth the same, or the ittsttiiicient setting forth of the same in
the body of the declaration, plea, notice of set-ofi, or other notice; and in
all cases where any copy of a writing signed by a party to the same shall
be so annexed and referred to, the same shall be recorded with the plead
ings, and form part of the record. (cl)
3.24. That in actions of libel and slander the plaintifff shall be at liberty
to aver that the words or matter complained of were used in a defamatory
sense, specifying such defamatory sense, without any prefatory averment
to show how such words or matter were used in that sense, and such
averment shall be put in issue by the denial of the alleged libel or slander;
and where the words or matter set forth, with or without the alleged
meaning, show cause of action, the declaration shall be suﬂicieut. (e)

125. That in actions upon bonds with a condition the plaiutilf shall state
the condition and assign breaches thereof in his declaration; and no evi
dence shall be given of any breach not so assigned. (g)

1262 That the plaintifff or defendant in any action may aver performance

conditions pre
oedent.

Ib., 4'25.
Express color, &c.
Ib., Q29.
Pleading, &c.
Ib., Q30.

of conditions precedent generally; and the opposite party shall not deny
such averment generally, but shall specify in his pleading the condition
precedent, the performance of which he intends to contest. (h)

127. That express color and special traverses shall not be necessary in
any pleading. (1')
128. That a right by virtue of a private way may be pleaded generally
in the same manner as in pleading a public way.

(n) The act docs not authorizeadefendant to rejoln several
matters to the repl ication.
Van l"00rsl \'. lllorrls Lblttll (3).,
.s'pm. 167.169, Ilornbtowrr, C. J.
'(l}) The court will order a consolidation of several actions of
ejectment where.there is the saute question and defense involved

in all of them. Dru v. Kimble, 4 Hat. 335. The court will not
consolidate two actions brought against tho sameperson, by the
81Ul"l€

plaintll2's, upon promissory notes drawn at different dates

and payable at ditl'c-rent times, where it does not appear that
the defense is thesame in both.
ii'orlr=y ads. Gtcnttcorllt, 5 Hrtl.
‘Mi. Two several writs of .9:-ire {acids to revive two several
executions by the same piaintiﬂagatnst the saute defendant, can
not be consolidated. Mickie v. b'I'¢tL‘I')', 3 Jlul. 85. Form of

rule. Dm v. ]{imhlr,41{ul. 335, 338. The court will not rellcvea
arty from the consequences of a rule to consolidate, although
e denies that the rule was entered by his authority; he must
seek redress,ii' any, from his attorney. Den, Iimulriclrsrm v.
}{¢.'n(IricI.‘son, 3 Hr. 102. \Vhen separate actions are brought by
the same plaintifff against the same defendant, on several cer
tiﬁcates oi’ indebtedness, fut-the same consideration, maturing
at the same time, or all due when the writs are commenced,
they will be consolidated inone suit. Lee v. 7lJlUH.\i/lI))0/ Kcarny,
13 Vr. 5-I3. The gppropriate reliel‘ against successive suits by
the same plainti e for damages arising from an injury which is

continuous, is by application forthe Colisolidatlon of actions or
for a stay ofproceedings, and not by bill in chancery,unless the
right. in controversy has once been determined adversely to the
plainlilT. In hi;/It l'n!!ry R. R. Liu. V. JIr'Fm'lun,4SIru'. 730.
(v) In pointoffnct there is no issue joined wlthoutasimilltrr
-though the want of a similttrr is amendable after verdict.
DIP/.rr.son v. -loll, 4 Zoo. 5.30. 'I'he addition of "&c.” after a
tender of issue, will not be taken to mean “and the plaintiﬂ","

it being left to the jury to say whether they were used in such
sense. Hand v. ll'in!on, 9 l'r. 122. In an action for slander an
innuendo camiot be used to enlarge or extend the meaning of
the words spoken; it can only explain thetn, by connecting

them with the intluccmcnt or colloomum pu.-vionsiyaverred.
Jorltlmnun v. I't)!llfl‘I)y, 2 Zah. 271. i‘he slander must appear
substantially from the colloquium or inducement and the words
alleged, and, unless it can be collected from them, it cannot be

created by an allegation in the innuendo ; ll must appear by the
natural meaning of the words in the con\'en~'ntion and circum

stances in which their use is alleged.

lb.

The plaintifff must

so state his complaint, that supposing all the allegations to be
true, it will appear from the declaration that he has been
charged with a crime. (‘ole v. Hrtinr, 3 Hm-_ 3'27, 330. 1'.'!uin', J.
In actions for slander ot't.itle this section is applicable. so that
any meaning deemed advisable by the pialntiif, may be im

puted t0 the words. AIl(lI‘¢lLl V. D¢'.~thlvfi', 14 l'r. 16. By the
rovisions oi’ this section an alteration in the rules ofplcading
n civil actions for libel and slander Wﬂi effected, by which the
necessity of the prefatory averments of extrinsic facts. show
ing the defaniator sense attributable to the written or s ken
words, is dispen;
with. In such leadings,ltis nowsu cient
to aver that the words were use in a speciﬁed defamatory
sense. State v. Mott, 16 l'r. 495.
A declaration is defective
which does not contain the statutory avcrment that the wonls

spoken in a defamatory sense.

ﬂfiuer v. Bethe, 2 A’. J.

. .50.
tn) This section, it seems, applies to oﬂicial bonds, as that ofa
constable. Jrrsry (‘Hy v. Chase, 1 l'r. 233, 234. See rm!r,p. ‘Z337.
note ((1). In an action founded on an ordinary money bond, in

violation of the express direction of this section, neither its
condition nor breach was aasigned in the declaration. Ifrld, on

or defendant “doth likewise." At most, its oliicetn plcudlngls
to supply matter that ought,to be expressed in the pleading oi‘

demurrer, thata copy oi‘ the instrument sued on will not be

which it is n. part. I h.
(ll) Although a Copy of the bond on which the suit is brought
is atitiexetl to lh(Hlt'('liil'illlt)ll, the conrtcnnnot tnkenotice oi‘ ii,
bt"('&lllh‘(_' in the body of the plendim: it is not I'L‘lPl'l'l'tl to as so
annexed. ]ll|l‘)‘i.\'nIl \'. l'rr¢/uml,9 l'r. 3603. If the copy Uflt
note milieu-ti to the declaration be erront-ous,it may be cor
rected. Tilloit V. I/II/I‘/Hnvrnl, 3 (Jr. 179. \\'l\ei'e a (.‘up_\' of the
it-use under seal is nnnexvd and relcrrcll to in the body of
the pleiitliitus as so annexed, it becoini-~r purl. of the record;
the del'enthtnt need not cruve oyer and set it out on the face
of the plea. Loob V. Burris, Zl l'r. 352. Halt V. lS'umll¢_v/, 1
Dulch. 374.
(cl The pleader may aver that the words sot forth were used
in any defamatory sense he may see lit to attribute to them,

tlulied therein. Brown V. ll'urdr.'n, I5 l'r. 177.
(ll) A general averment. oi‘ performance by the plaintifff. is
suﬁicient.
I’:-wluml v. 1fcckrnrm_7 l'r. 13.
Sec.nlso,1i'idgwt'i/
v. Fm-.-yth, 2 Hal. 98. Rice v. Por(rr, I Ifnr. 4-I0. 1~rtl(rn V.
H'P|w!i.~t,2 Dnlrh. 293. Hr'rIi( V. Tuuhrl, 26 l'r. 421. Where ill?
performance of a condition precedent is alleged in the declara
tion, the defendant, instead of pleading the general issue,n1t\_\'
deny the alleged perf'ormauce, and put himselfon the country;
but where the condition and its perlormance are not aileized Ill

noticed unless it is made part of the declaration by being men

the declaration, the defendant may set up non-compliance with
the condition, and conclude with a verification.
jlrmlmlfmt Iml. ('n., 5 l'r. 214.

Dtwees V.

(i l The use of a special traverse approved in thisinstance.
.McWttlt'a1ns \'. King, 3 l'r. 21.

PRACTICE.

2555

129. That in actions on contracts not under seal the defendant may set

Defbct in or par
tial failure of con
sideration. recoup
ment.

up as a defense in abatement of the damages to be recovered by the plain
titi", a defect in, or partial failure of, the consideration of the contract sued
on, and may also recoup any damages which he may have sustained by
reason of the non-performance or defective performance of any part of the
same contract by the plailitiif; provided, that a notice of the particulars of
such defense be annexed to the plea. and filed therewith. (a)
130. 'l‘ln1t in actions on contracts made in another state, it shall not be
lawful for a. defendant to set up as a defense usury or illegality in the con
sideration under the provisions of any statute of such state, unless the de
fendant shall plead such statute specially, and annex to such plea a. note
of the time when the same was passed. (b)

Usury or illegality
under a foreign
statute to be
pleaded.

Pleas puis darreln
continuance.

131. That pleas puis darrein continuance shall be pleadable only by per
mission of the court or a judge; and the court or a judge, in allowing any
such plea, may direct that the pleading thereof shall not be 9. waiver of
former pleas. (0)

Pleading defec

132. That the court or a judge in vacation shall have power on four

tive. &c., may be
struck out.
P. L. 1855, p. 285,
Q 24
Amended.

days’ notice, to strike out any pleading which is irregular or defective, or is
so framed as to prejudice. embarrass or delay a fair trial of the action, and
the order striking out such pleading shall be entered on the record, if
required by the party against whom the same is made, and error may he
aasi ned thereon. (d)

Pi L. 1857, p. N6,

A mended.

1 3. [Amended by Sec. 314, posh]
134. That a notice of set.-oil‘ shall, with respect to the rights and liabili

Set-oﬁ‘ considered
as n crouactlon.

ties of the parties to the suit, be considered as a cross-action brought by the
defendant; the plaintifff may at the trial make any defense to the subject
matte_r of the set-oil‘, without any counter notice which he would be entitled
to make under the general issue if the defendant had brought an action
for the same; but any defense which in an action would be required to be
specially pleaded, shall not be available to the plaintifff in answer to such
set-off, unless he shall file a. notice of such special nmtter, as a pleading in
the cause.

When defenses
thereto shall not
be made without
notice.

VIII. Amendment and variance.

135. That any pleading may be amended by the party, of course, with
out application to the court, without costs, and without prejudice to the
proceedings already had, at any time before a. pleading in answer thereto
has been ﬁled; and in such case a copy of the amended pleading shall be
served on the adverse party within ﬁve days after ﬁling the same, who
shall lead thereto in thirty days after such service.

Pleading»: may
be amended of
course.
P. L. 18-35, p. 238.

us.

13;. That no variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof
shall be deemed material, unless it have actually misled the adverse party,
to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits;
whenever it shall be alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact shall
be established to the satisfaction of the court trying the cause, and there
(rm) There can be no recouprnent In anult on n sealed Instru
ment. Prxrr v. Ilrynolllv, I0 l'r. i7l. in an action of covenant
for rcnl on a lame under seal, the tenant cannot recouphis
damages for u breach ofcovl-nnnl in the lease on the purl. oi‘ the
landlord, at common law, or by our statute. Jllmzrr v. Rrm_y,

14 Vr. 480. lmnntures of ndefendant cannot be recon
under
this section. lllil('r'\'4 the notice required has been filer with the

Variance between
allegation and

proof, when
material.
Ib., Q43.

(h) The defense of usury arising under the law of another
state, must, by force of lhisseciion, be specially pleaded Kirk
v. l\’i<‘kcr.\vm, l7 Vr. I3. in suclléplea, the contract alleged l0 ba

usurious must. be correctly am
, and it‘ not proved an laid, the
defense will not avail. lo.
(c) Without such direction, it. is a waiver of all former pleas.
Din, Price v. Sumlnnuon, 3 Hur. 4'36.

plea and the rhnnages nrlse oul. uf the very contract sued upon.
Rnznrlh v. Dudley, 15 i'r. 304. Where a promissory nolelsg vcn

(rt) If n plea or demurrer be struck out as frivolous, such
order cannot he reviewed on nwrltof error. Brown v. War

pursuant. to the l‘X[)I‘Ps1i terms oi‘ n (X)ill9Il1|)0I'ullt'U\I!4 written
agreement. by which the-payee oi‘ the note binds him.-telfto col
lect certain mom>y.~\ nnd in appropriate them on the note in re

lllll, 15 Vr. I77.

duction or discharge of the amount for which the same was
given. In L null. upon the note between the nrllzlnul parties
thereto, the breach by the payee oi‘ the part oi‘ mid agreement
to be by him
rformcd, may be shown hy the maker oi’ the

note by wuyo rm-oupmml. in such a case lhenole lam imi
Innlely connected with the coulemporam-ous \\'rll.iug that.
Ullﬂhef they constitute “the contract sued upon," within the
lnaning of this section of the statute concerning1-rmuplmn/,
Babbitt V. llfoort, 22 V1‘. ‘Z29. See Wrltruuul v. liliny/xuwrlh,
ll Vr. -I34. 1':-ouerv. Hccluclicr, liistzw. 657. Atpaugh v. Wood,
8 Mew. 157.

A re/urn! to strike out n pleading cannot be

made u part of the record so as to be revlewable on n wril of
error
(hoper \. Vnntlrrlwr, 18 Vr. 178. It is only when the
motion to strike out has prevailed that the practice not ivcs

the right lo a \v rlt oi‘ error. lb. Monmmtm Park Asso. v. 'm'
drn, 26 Vr. 600. A rule striking out u sham plea is not review
afile on error.

Mrrumn v. (Juhw as Vr. -Isl.

To a plea of the

statute of limitations, the plalntliih repllcd that their suit was
brought not only for the causes oi‘ action in lhepleu mentioned,

but also for that the dofentlani, being indebted, &c., did, within
six ycar<,&c.,promlse,&c., which promlws, ne\\'l_\' ns'4lKn6d,
were different promises from that in the plea mentioned. Hrlri,

to be a departure and not n. re-amt nmcni. and replication
stricken out. Leland v. Ncllson, 3 N. . L. J. I56.

PRACTICE.

2556

\Vhen variance
is not material.

upon the court may order the pleading to be amended upon such terms as
shall be just. (a)
137. That when the variance is not established to be material, as pro
vided in the last section, the court may order an immediate amendment of

Ib., ‘Q44.

the pleading, without costs ; but where the allegation of the cause of action,

or defense. to which the proof is directed, is untrue, not in some particular
or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall not be
deemed a case of variance, but a failure of proof.
Court may amend
defects in plead

138. That in order to prevent. the failure of justice by reason of mistakes
and objections of form. it shall be lawful for the court, or any judge thereof,

ings.

at all times, to amend all defects and errors in any proceeding in civil

Ib., Q 46.

All amendments
necessary to deter
mine real contro
versy shall be
made.

causes, whether there is anything in writing to amend by or not, and
whether the defect or error be that of the party applying to amend or not,
and all such amendments may be made with or without costs, and upon
such terms as to the court or judge may seem ﬁt; and all such amend
ments as may be necessary for the purpose of determining in the existing
suit the real question in controversy between the parties shall be so made. (b)
[For amendments with respect to parties, see supra, Secs. 34 to 37 ; see,
also, title AMEi\'DMENT.]

(ni A variance between the pleading and roofis immaterial,
unless the party is misled and prejudic
by it. Hallo:-k v.
Onnmlrriul Ins. ('o.,2 Dulch. 2.68. Aslu/tore V. Etvtns, 3 Nlorlc.
151. ifthe variance between a particular and the evidence
nlT(.'r('(| under it, is such as would naturally mislead the party,
the evidence ought to be rejected ' otherwise the party object
ing ought to satisfy the court by aiilidavlt that he has been mis

led by the particular.

Bunting ads. Allen, 8 Hur. 299. Stained’

V. Dunhmn, 4 H111‘. 181.

(0) The power to amend pleadings extends to the introduc
tion of matters winch the parties hoped and intended to try in
the cause, and is not limited to matters within the issue upon
the record. The 15!"!/or of Ilobokrn V. Gnu‘, 8 Dulrh. 265.
The eﬂ't-ct of the statutory provisions authorizing amendments
ls, that every error in form, no matter how radical. can be cor
rected at any stage oi‘ the suit. in all civil causes, \\ heneversuch

correction becomes necessary to enable the parties to try the

by the court. at the trial, on motion to set aside the Verdict,
both surpri.-e and substantial merits should be i~lm\\ u. .1--wilt»
v. .V. ll’ Jeruy (Hr S may t‘o., 7 Vr. H2. \\'ln-n judgment. on de

murrer is review
in a court of error. the judgment tziv-~n
should be the same as they decide ought. to have been given by
the court below, that is,ajudgment in the cause forthe piililll itf
or defendant; but the court oferror,aﬂer reversitigajndgnient,

may grant aieave to amend, instead oi‘ otderin §uch_a juris
ment as ought tobegiven. Hale v. Lmrrrnce, Zoo. .3. 'l lie
(bmlil
V. ¢\'ugltbur,
I't y a pp i )'il I g to amend must pay costs.Drn
V. Ganor’
1 Hur.
Hut. 320. J.» n v. Suit/rtltic, 1 Ilur. 357.
439. Hull V. Snowhill, 2 Gt‘. 9. Jifrtyor Q! Newark V. i)¢It'cs, 3
Har. 2.’. Cimdit V. tirrporj/,1 Zub. 431. li'nu'I. V. Hmtylruul, 2
Zah. 521. I/nminp V. Shale, 2Srmlh. ‘T78. R0 KY3 v. I'Itlnm_u, l
fir. l.
"'00:! \'. Llslw 6 VI‘. 47-I. A plttlllll
will D9 t1liu\\ ed
to amend his writ and declaration, without lh(;38)'llii€‘IilUrCl)5l5,

when the practice and law have been uusettl . lﬁllirlmson v.
Uprlikr, 2 Gr. 270. .$'omw a ads. Sloan, 8 Hm‘. 49. See 1': 1 run" V

matters which they contemplated to try, or to sustain the de
cision resulting from such trial. Price v. Ne/wJr rsr R. R. 00.,

A))plr’(m!r', 1 Mc(hrl. 532.

Where both parties are wrong. each

2 l'r. 229.

should pay his own costs.

(bx V. Bmnel. 1 Gr. i7'.’.. \\'here the

ll’ an objection was iechnicall

valid, t ie plalntiﬂ’

would have been permitted to amend h sdeclaration by add
ing a special count upon the written agreement; and what

defendant has leaded nut lid record. the plaintifffbeen put to two
demurrcrs ant subjected to much delay by the teas overruled

the court below might have done to prevent the failure of jus

(a former amendment having been permitt

tice, this court will, under the statute, consider as done-the

ant will not be

WW lH1\'ll18 been tried on both sides with special reference to

ment of costs, a davit of a meritorious efense under the
plea or pleas sought to be amended. election to abide by
the amended pleas, a withdrawal of the plea nul (tel rn-out,

the agreement. ll':llI.t V. Frriinld, 4 Vr. 206. Amendments
are now entirely in the sound discretion of the court, and will
be allowed whenever the advantement ofjustice requires it.
Each case must depend upon its own particular circumstances.

Tin Eyck V. Drluuxtre and Rrtrilon Ctmol (71)., 4 Hm‘. 5. That a.
writ of inquiry was executed alter its return day is a nullity by
the statute,but.a want of such writ is aided on error. Young v. D.,
L. tr ii’. R. R. 00., 9 l’r. 502. A motion for amendment ma be

heard at any time, and at almost any stage in the cause.
M,
HOOl‘(l' V. .FI'lUi/.'/HI, 2 South. '8-Si. Rrrd v_ Burkn-, 1 Vr. 379,
Htti:1es,.I. The application ought tobe made withinareasonable
time. Van Dyke v. l'rm Dyke, 4 Hur. 1. An amendment was

allowed, after an argument traversing thefact ofan appearance
having been entered. HﬂI7'i!'IR V. Rowan Prl. ('. ('. 459. After
the testimony wa.-1 closed.

Joslln V. Nero

(meg; Chr Spring (‘o.,

7 l’r. liti. Alter a non-suit. Den, Hoover V. Frrmlt-lm,2b'0u!h.
'8-50. After a trial and verdict. Price V. Nrw Jrrsey R. R.
6b., 2 Vr. 229. Alter plea ﬁled, rule of reference. award of
referees and rule for jltdgtncnt. nisi, and reasonsﬂied against
the report. Smilh V. Minor, (brc 416. Ailer argument ofa
enera demurrer toseveral special pleas in bar and judgment
or theplaintli‘l‘onthatdemurrer
overrulln
thes
-cialpleus.
Tim
L‘!/ck V. Dtlmlvrre and lt’Ii7‘i;(Ul
(‘mull Cgh,
4 1}t)t£r.
5. Ht!/€
v. Lmm-ence, 2 Zoo. 72. After artzument in the court oi’ errors.
Appur V. Jilin-,4 Zoh. 808. Ailer verdict and judgment in
supreme court and affirmanco in the court of errors. DIR V.

SnoH'ht'!l,l Ur. ‘B. Aﬂor the cause had been removed tothe
court of errors, judgment revemed, a new trial ordered and the
record remitted. Rogrirs \'. 1’hnmr_v/, 1 Gr. i.
Amendment
refused aitera non-suit, where the motion to amend int-lndt.-d a
tnotion tosetasitietlietioti-suit. l)en,l'on /lI'.\'I/HI(n\'.I/uIl,41{(lI.
390. \\'here a judgment has passed In favor ol'tiiedt-feudant
on a plea of nut lid 1'rrm"rl, this court will not allow the
laintiifs to so amend their declaration, as to make it con
onn to the record produced. Gtllirk v. I.o<hr,3 Hr. 416. It
is too late to move for ati amendment by the court below,
two lt*l"lll\i after the return of the writ, when the cause has
been set down i‘or argument and the plainttﬂ’ in error has
been in no inches. Apgor V. Jlllrr, 4 Zoo, hurl. An amend

ment of an execution will not be allowed to carry the date
of its i.~.<ue back i'our terms, to a period when the plalutiif
was alive.

,-’|fm'{/(Ill. V.

7‘u_i/lot", 9 I’;-_ 317,

If rt rnni/hfur is

filed in the supreme court on the last day of their lerm,con
current with that of the court oi‘ errors in which the ud;,'
ment is given, without the k||o\vleti:,'e oi‘ the attorneyo the
defendant in error, he will not be in int-hes in not applying at

that term for leave to amend. Hole v. Lawrence, 2 Zoo. 73.
Alter the death oi‘ a party, the pit.-ntiim_'~.4 will not be amended
to meet the exigency of the case and bring it within lite act.

Dic/.u-ion v. Sloll, 4 Zub. 550. Where an amendment is allowed

and a tilin

l, the defend

rmitted to amend, exce t upon the pay

of the amended pleas during the present term.

Moulin v. ax. Cb., 4 Zoo. 252, Green, (‘. J. Aﬂer a jutlgment
by delimit the part applying to amend must give the
other party time to p cad. Boudmot V. Lewis, Pen. ‘$12. The
judgment and

execution, although

stayed, were

ordered

to stand as security for the Elaintifs claim. Jlalxr
ads.
Van Wagenen, 1 Har. 351. W ere the amendment is n the
form of the verdict only, and not in its substance. it may be
made b the court in bane without the postea being amend
ed by
e circuit judge. .Pht'1lt'ps V. ]\'utl, 3 Zab. 15'». The
allowance of an amendment to a. declaration does not preclude
the defendant from objecting to its sulliciency.

Alorris (‘unul

Cb. V. Van Vorst,-i Hm'.9. Theamendmeut will beconsidered as
made whenever the objection is taken. Den, Inslrfft V. Léctniy,
Cbxc Ill. (lore V. Field, 1 G1‘. 2l6. Price V. New (rsry R 1,3
Co.,2 Vr. 229.

Willis V. lira-1mld,4 Vr. 207. Ajudge at thecircuit.

court cannot order an amendment in the circuit record.

.£)I‘ll,

Van Arstittlen V. Hull, 4 Ilul. 277. See Pol/.1 v. Ulnrlcr, Spray, 3n_
The power of amendment conierred by this t-ecii0ll extends to

the court of errors, and in cases where no injury had been done
to the party com ilaining by or through error of mere form, it.
is incumbent on t is court, in the interest of justice, to evercise
thepower. Amn-u-on Life Ins. Gt. V. Jmy, 10 Vr. b9. Blm-/,-rm-4
V.
lomﬂrlri Guslq/hl (.b., 14 Vr. 438. Rnlslrulrr V. ('uu'¢h¢-r
land hut. Cb.,l5 Vr. 29-i. Fmrgan V. ,llom'r, 17 |'r_ 601 J‘I(‘".
mouth Park A880. V. iiitrrrn, % i'r. 598. Vunlc v, Rarilan R; ",

R. R. 01., 27 Vr. 399. The power to amend extends to the
amending the record at the trial. and,ailer a motion to non
suit, bystriking out the nameofthe plaintifff, win-never it 0(“‘"‘
in the })l‘(I(.‘t'.“\‘5 and pleadings, and inserting the name ofnnother
person as plaintiii’. I'in'rt'()‘ V. iS'r)n-order, ll i'r. 601. Qilluiby v

h'in_/1,14 Ir. 454.

Hash:-ouck V. Ii'iuklrr, 19 l'r. -I31.

If the rani

question in controversy between the parties to an action up

pears to have been ihily and fairly tried, and correctly S('\ll(~t|
the court of errors will not reverse for an objection which may
be avoided by an amendment of the plL*il(illli.,'$, but in sot-ii <1,“
will exercise thc power oi‘ amendment. li'urr v, Jllrlli-111:, 1‘i‘,~¢-,
Ins. (b., 18 Vr. I77. Ercclsiol‘ .Elrr!rt'c ('0, v, 5/mi/' 23 1-,.
224.
Nitliorlrtl Oomlfnsul Milk Cb. V. Brunrlnabm‘Uh
ll

l'r. iii.

mm V. Shout, 13 Vr. I38.

to put in
stance.

roper legal form a verdict, ii'it be not chanced in sub
ttmphrr_t/3 V. 11/(I3/1))‘, <1-0., of ii'0od.1Iourn, I9 l'r .5»

The court has the right

The bill oi‘ exce nlons is correctifileasallother I‘O(‘9(ltlI:P3\i|;
asult are correct ble. Even ii‘ such ower of rectllicntion were
not inherent in the general ruleso judicial practice it \\'uultl
he tier;-ssgrlly held to have been introduced into bur legal
fllPllll)(
:4Seeyt
te provisions
this section. M’¢ H‘
- V , Sam’
'
'm
Vr.
mile,
pp. 25 to 30,ofnotes.

PRACTICE.

255'!

IX. Demurrer.

139. That no pleading shall be deemed insuﬁicient for any defect which
could heretofore be objected to only by special demurrer; and where issue
is joined on a demurrer the court shall give judgment according as the very
right of the cause and matter in law shall appear, without. regarding any
imperfection, omission, defect in or lack of form; and no judgment shall
be arrested, stayed or reversed for any such imperfection, omission, defect

Special demurrer!

abolished.
P. L. 1855, p. 288,
I 3.

in or lack of form. (a)

140. That if the plaintifff or defendant shall not join in demurrer in
thirty days alter the ﬁling thereof, such plaintiﬁ‘ shall be nonprossed, and
such defendant shall have judgment awarded against him. (b)
141. That where there are several issues in law and in fact, the issue in
law shall be ﬁrst determined before the issue in fact shall be tried.

142. That either partymay give notice of the argument of a demurrer,
which notice shall be served at least ten days before the time for hearing. (0)

143. That in actions in the circuit court, the demurrer may be brought

Joinder in demur
rer when ﬂied.
R. S. 929, Q 62.
Issue ofisw ﬁrst
determined.
Ib., Q64.
Notice of argu
ment.
Argument of

demurrer before

on for argument before the justice of the supreme court, assigned to hold

ndge.

ev lsion.

such circuit, either in term time or vacation.

X. Judgment by default and assessment of damages.

144. That the plaintifff, in any action of law, when the defendant shall
have omitted to ﬁle a plea or demurrer to the declaration, or any subsequent
pleading within the time required by law, may enter as of course, either
in term or vacation, in the minutes of the court, such rule for judgment
by default, either interlocutory or ﬁnal, as he would by law have been
entitled to if such rule were applied for in open court, expressing in such
rule the true date of the actual entry thereof; and such rule, when lawfully

Judgment in

default ofa plea
entered in term or
vacation.

P. L. 1851, p. an,
I2.

entered, shall have the same force and effect as if entered by order of the

court, and if unlawfully entered shall be utterly void; and for the purposes
of this section, any frivolous plea or demurrer, or sham plea, or plea
irregularly pleaded, may be treated and regarded as if the same had not
been ﬁled.
145. That any judge of the court, in which the action is pending, may,
upon application made before the entry of a rule for judgment by default,
upon afﬁdavit made by the defendant, or his attorney in the suit, or agent
in the matter in controversy, that the defendant hath a defense to said
action, which such afﬁant believes to be just and legal, that he hath in
good faith endeavored to prepare his plea, and setting forth a sufficient
excuse why he has not been able so to do, or upon aﬂidavit made'by any
person on behalf of the defendant, that he believes that the defendant has

Sham or frivolous
plea or demurrer
disregarded.

Judge may grant
mrther time to
plead.
Ib., Q 3.
Aﬂidsvit required.

a real defense to said action, and has been absent from the state ever since

the service of process, or upon aﬂidavit showing that the ends of justice
require that further time be given, grant, by order, under his hand, further
time to plead, not exceeding thirty days; which order, if ﬁled with the
clerk before the entry of judgment by default, shall during the time therein
granted stay the entry of such judgment, except upon application in open
court. (d)
(a) Thlssectlnn relates to mattersof form,snd only authorizes
amendments in cases which were previously the subject of ex

be assessed by the court, the declaration reciting the condition
of the bond in which the precise amount due to the plaintiﬂs is

amination by means of a special demurrer.

set forth.

Crawfm-<l v. Nrw

Jersey R. R. (1).. 4 Dull-Ii. 480. The objection that s travemable
ﬁact s stated without s venue in the body of the declaration.

goes to s matter of mere form, and is within the operation of
this section.

Reed v.

Wilson, I2 Vr. 8.

Mehrhof v. D., L. c

W. It R. 0u.,22 i’r. 56.
éb) % Bron-n v. Warrlru, I5 Vr. iii).

c) if the adverse party brings on the argument of a de
.!;1t£'rv5r, he must lhrnlsh the printed books. Anonymous, 19 .\'.
.

.

. 16.

(ll) On Judgment by deihnlt in an acllon upon a bond given
under the act to abolish imprisonment for debt, damages will

Rogers v. Br-undm-d, 1 HU7'.15B.

But not on judg

ment hy deihult on s bond for the prison limits Beutty v.
Ivlm, Pm. "628. On a constable's bond. J(1‘JF_|/ City v. Chase,
1 Vr. 233. Where neither party a plies for an-rlt oi’ inquiry.
RIWITI v. Brmnlrnl, i Hur. l59. T n~ l|ltlIll\gP8 may be assessed
be ere s ustloe at circuit, in eases ufdlll-lcully. Jerry Oily v.
Christ, l
r. 213. But such order is dlscretiunsr in the court,

and will not be made lll|l(’§S special grounds ares o\vn,a.ssome
legal intricacy, or objection to the sherliil Whllr \'. Hunl, I Hut.
330. smiili, J., dlsseinimz.

Not on

Il'i1li:_mum/1 \'. Snnok, 5 Hut. 6-5.
nary v. Burcniow, 7 VI. 15.

nu adniinlsirailon bond.

Nor an executor‘: bond.

See in/ru,5ec. 150.

Ordi

2558

PRACTICE.

“Where declaration
contains common
counts.

146. That where the declaration contains only common counts, or
common counts on which a recovery is sought, in addition to any matter
or thing mentioned in any special count and the plaintifff shall desire to

P. L. 1857, p. 296,

ﬁle and serve his declaration, as is mentioned in the one hundred and fifth

Q 7.
Amended.

Judgment may be
set aside or opened
to let in defense.
P. L. 1851, p. 317, Q5.
“ 1853, p. 402, Q1.
Amended.

148. That where a judgment shall be entered as for want of a plea, on

Judgments im
properly entered
on the ground that
pica is frivolous
or a sham plea
vacated.

Assessment of
datnages on judg
ment by default.
R. S. it'll), Q71.
P.L. ls.-‘>1, p. 317, E4.
“ 1871, p. 123.

Iiamazzes in
actions ex con
tractu assessed.

section of this act, he shall not take judgment at the end of the thirty days
in said section mentioned, unless he shall have annexed to his declaration,
and served therewith a statement of the particulars of his demand or of the
amount for which judgment will be claimed.
14:7. That if judgment by default be entered for want of a plea, it shall
be lawful for the court, or any judge thereof in term time or vacation, on
four days’ notice, upon satisfactory proof that such judgment was improvi
dently or fraudulently entered, or that the defendant has a real defense
to the action, to make an order that such judgment be set aside or opened
to let the defendant in to plead ; pr0t'2'der.l, that if such judgment shall have
been regularly obtained and without fraud, the order shall be that the
defendant be permitted to plead on such terms as may be equitable, and
the lien acquired by such judgment and by the execution thereon shall
remain as security for the satisfaction of anyjudgment the plaintiff may
recover in the action. (a)
the ground that the plea or demurrer ﬁled by the defendant is frivolous, or
that the plea is a sham plea, application may be made to any judge of

the court in which such judgment shall be entered for the vacation of
such judgment; and if it shall appear that the judgment was illegally or
improperly entered, it shall be lawful for such judge, in term time or vaca
tion, to make an order that the same be vacated and set aside; and upon
the making and ﬁling of such order, such judgment shall become utterly
void and of no eifect, and the plaintili' shall be compelled to pay the costs
of such application.
'

149. That where interlocutory judgment in actions of assumpsit shall be
entered by default against the defendant, the plaintifff may have his dam
ages assessed by the court, or when the court is not actually in session l)_\'
any
judge orthereof,
or byofthe
clerk, unless
rule shall
for a writ.
of inquiry
assessment
damages
in opena court.
(I1) be entered
i
150. That in all actions ex contractu, where the damages or sum recover
able arc a mere matter of calculation, or can readily be ascertained, the
same may be assessed or ascertained, on judgment by default, by the court.
or clerk as in actions of assumpsit. (c)

(H) Ajudgment obtained by fraud or surprise will he set
aside. Binrssr V. Bm'lcI1', 1 Ht‘. ‘.163. Aldrrumn \'. Diumrn/,l
Hui. 197, 199. nnh". An affidavit of the defendant ?illtl\\'illg
that he had expected to coinprornlse the suit before the
entry oi‘ the judulnent, is sutﬁcicnti (‘rune v. Lhnr!r(.l I-fur.
3-I9. So, twin.-n the defendant, after ﬁliui: a plea. and sub
pmnaing his \vitnes.'-t-.~4, was prevented from attending the
trial, by his conﬁnement for contempt of another court.
Tr-no.1: V. Robrrls, l -S‘/Iulh. ‘$88 (U). SH, when by t\(.‘Chlcnt,
defendant was prevented from retaining an attorney to
defend. Am-nnt.s v. ii'ood,l Slmlh. '30 (u). A judgment may
be opened, where rendered against two joint debtors, on the
confession oi‘ one, the other having had no opportunity to
lead an insolvent discharge. Jlill.-c v. Slrnhl, 2 Soulh. ‘-363.
‘o, where the rzrautor of a llcfendaut in ejt-ctruent (who iu
tended to defend) was prevented by the illness and death
oi’ a daughter. Drrn. Rilcrr v. Bull, 1’-=u. ‘Q74. A judgint-nt by
default cannot be set aside because the asse-'sn\ent of dain

ages was wrouzz.

(.‘rr1|mI'1' v. lull-rmnn, l0 l'r. I95.

.\'or on the

ground of surprise, where no merits are shown. Ilwiririr-hm:
ads. ]‘lr~r-hrr!,9 i'r. 29lt,2‘J‘.l. Judgment opcuetl aﬂer the lapse
of n. year, on affidavit of def:-ndant, that he ht"liP\'("\ the iu
dorsemcnt of his name on the note. upon which jud-_'ment
was entered, to he n forgery; that his information induchn;

such belie-l‘, was obtained since the last term of court;
and that he has been reihscrl an inspection of said indorse
ment by pia.intiil"s attorney. Bu! ads. K1-‘I13/. 2 Hm". 270. I f
founded on merits, a motion to open a judgment may be
made at any time while the cause is within the power and
under the control of the court, provided the party em
braces the first opportunity of pres<-uting his case; and pro

vided

the plaintifffs rights are not thereby endangered.

Ih. After execution issues the court will open a jiuigim-ut
and lot in a real dr-fl-use. 1'» n, I.w' v. Ernul, (‘ow 201. .If a
trial has not been lost, recuiar judgments by delimit are set
aside in nil Cnscﬁ, on allidavit of cit-liaise. II». This court

will not open a judgment. at the instance oi‘ a plaintitt‘ in

attachment against the same defendant. He is not a credi
tor in letzai contemplation, but may or may not turn out
to be such. None but a jud:.:ment creditor, or one whose
ciaiin is judicially established. is entitled to the aid of the
court in opening a judgment or Ordering an issue on the
fairness of it between other parties. Even ajudL'ment credi
tor tnust have tried all other leiral means of obtaining satis
faction of his judgment, and failing the-rein, ht-fore he can
ask of the court their aid in such a proceeding, JIM:-illr
v. Rrown, 1 Hnr. 363.
This court will not set aside a
judgment rendered at a former term, after solemn argu
ment on a. legal 0bjc(.‘lion which might have been !‘Ili.<(--(1
against said judgment on the fornicr argument, but was
'()Illlll‘.‘(i by con nscl. I"u.r V. I,umh~'r-n, 3 JIHI. 368. if ll (lcfvnd
ant suffers a term to elapse after a judgment regularly ob
tained B.L,'1llilSt him, the court will not interfere summarily

to set aside the judgment, unless such delay is very satis
factorily ilccounletl for. ('0n)n'1' lids. Gnllnwolli, 4 Zulu. 2l9_
BI»/lrr v. A/r.J'mnlH'. (lure 400. Aﬁer jmlgnient,evecntiun and

nioneypald over to the piaintillthereon, the court will hardly
interfere to set aside thejudgmeut. Qnrru-Could the defend
ant have any l"8fl'lPll_\_' fol‘ the return of his money. ifthe court
did not set aside thcjurizment in such case? 1h. The court re
quires an allidavit that there. is real del'en~=e,detalii||g the cir
cumstances, before it will open a re:-.'uiarjiui~..:|neut by default.
Jihllrr ads. Ah-_mndrr, (bro -100. The lien of llw judgment is
n~tn,ine(i_ RH'hu1'1f.s‘ V. Jllorros (‘mull ('n.,.S‘;.-In. 36. (.'|‘unr' g|,d5_
(ibmlil. l Iinr. 3-I9. }!t/In-,1/auis. Hm ii'o{1om'n.1 lfur. 350.

(fl) Only applies to actions of n.\'.vu1np.\i|'I. .PCnrnr'k v. Ifnnr-u,
8 i'r. 179. The court may assess the dama.<_:es in ass-nmp.sit, debt
and covenant. imiependi-nti_\' ofthe statute. Ih.
(1') \\'lier\-jtull;nient by default is entered on a bail bond given
in an action upon contract for an uncertain sum, not a mere,

matter of calculation or readilyascertained, a writ of inquiry
niu~t be isstierl to .'ts.~'.l-ss darnaszvs. An fl8.\P\\ll1QIli by the clerk
oflhc court, l'or the amount of thejudgi-‘s order for bail, will be
set aside. i>‘i/unions ads. Krlly, 10 Yr. 438.

2559

PRACTICE.
151. That the plaintifff may enter a rule for a writ of inquiry in term time
or vacation as of course; but the defendant shall not enter a rule that the

damages shall be assessed by a writ of inquiry in cases where the plaintifff
is entitled to have his damages assessed by the court, or a judge, or the
clerk thereof, unless he shall enter a rule therefore before the expiration of
the time for pleading, and shall, at the time of entering such rule, ﬁle
with the clerk of the court an aﬂidavit that the amount claimed to be due
to the plaintiﬂ' in the bill of particulars, or some part thereof, is not due from
the defendant to-the plaintifff, specifying what amount, if anything, is due
to the plaintifff, and that the rule for the assessment of damages by a writ
of inquiry is not intended for the purpose of delay, but only to have the
amount due to the plaintifff correctly ascertained; which aiiidavit shall be
made by the defendant, or in his absence by his attorney or agent in such
action; and in case such affidavit shall specify any sum to be due to the
plaintifff, the plaintifff shall be at liberty forthwith to enter ﬁnal judgment
therefore, which shall operate as a waiver of the residue of his claim, as set

I’laintli‘fmay

enter rule for writ
of inquiry, of
course.
But defendant
shall not, except

on amdavlt.
P. L. 18.523, p. 108.
Amended.

forth in his bill of particulars; provided, nevertheless, that the court, or a

judge thereof, may, upon application by the defendant before ﬁnal judg
ment is entered, order that the damages be assessed in open court.
152. That the same notice shall be given of executing writs of inquiry
and of countermand as is required for the trial of issues in fact.

153. That if the plaintifff shall not proceed to execute the writ of inquiry
according to notice, or countermand such notice in due time, the defendant
shall be entitled to costs.
154. That where the damages are assessed by a writ of inquiry, no rule
for ﬁnal judgment shall be entered. except by order of the court, or a judge
thereof, on two days’ notice to the defendant or his attorney; but where
the damages are assessed by the court, or a judge, or the clerk, a rule for
ﬁnal judgment may he entered upon ﬁling such assessment, as of course,
which judgment shall he signed and take effect as of the day when such
rule is actually entered.

XI.
1.

Writ of inquiry.
R. S. 929, i 72.
Costs of not pro
ceeding with.
Ih., Q 73.
Final judgment,
where to be
entered.

Discovery before trial.
UPON

INTI-IRROUATOIKIES.

155. [Amended by Sec. 341, post]
2.

ADMISSION OR EXECUTION OF PAP]‘:‘.RS.

156. That either party may, by written notice, served at least ﬁfteen
days before the trial, call on the other party to admit, in writing, the execu
tion of any document, saving all just exceptions; and in case of refusal or
neglect to admit for ten days after such service, the costs of proving the
document shall be paid by the party so refusing or neglecting, whatever
the result of the cause may Be, unless at the trial the judge shall certify
that the refusal or neglect to admit was reasonable; and an affidavit of
the attorney in the cause of the due signature oi‘ any admissions made in
pursuance of such notice, and annexed to the affidavit, shall be in all cases
sufficient evidence of such admission.

3.

Execution of
writings.
P. L. 18$"), p. W,
I 38.

INSPECTION or BOOKS, ETC.

157. That the court, other than the court for the trial of small causes,
before which a civil action or proceeding, whether of a legal or equitable
nature, is pending, or a judge thereof, in term time or vacation, may, in
their discretion and upon ﬁve days’ notice of the application, order either
party to give to the other, within a speciﬁed time and under such terms as
may be imposed, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of

Court may order
either party to
give copies of
books, papers, 1&0.

P. L. 1855, p.!668,
Q 6.

PRACTICE.

2560

any books, papers or documents in his possession or under his control,
containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or proceeding, or
of the defense thereto, and if compliance with the order be refused, such
books, papers or documents shall not be given in evidence in such action
or proceeding, and the court may punish the party so refusing as for a
contempt of the court. (11)
Application to be

158. That any application, in pursuance of the next preceding section,

by petition.
Ib., Q 7.

shall be by petition, stating the grounds of such application, and veriﬁed
by the oath of the party, or of his attorney, solicitor, or agent in the
matter; and the aﬂidavit of the opposite party, or of his attorney, solicitor,
or agent in the matter, may be read in opposition to such application,
without notice of the taking of such affidavit, or either party, or any other
witness, may, on such application, be examined in relation thereto. (b)
4.

Party to an action
examined as a wit
ness before trial at
the instance of an
adverse party.
P. L. 1869, p. 12%),
Q1.

Party residing in
this state not oom
pellnble to attend

in another county.
lb., Q2.

Manner in which
attendance may
be compelled.

1b., Q 3.

Manner of con

EXAMINATION OF ADVERSE PARTY BEFORE TRIAL.

159. That any party to an action in the supreme or circuit court may be
examined as a witness at the instance of any adverse party or parties, or of

any one of the several adverse parties, after issue joined in said action and
before the trial of said action; said examination may be before any justice
of the supretne court, or before any supreme court commissioner, on a pre
vious notice to the party to be examined of at least ﬁve days, unless a shorter
time is for good cause shown, prescribed by a justice of the supreme court ;
the party shall only be examined upon an order made by a justice of the
supreme court to whom application therefore is made, and the granting of
said order shall be discretionary with the justice to whom such application
is made; the service of said order shall be suiilcient summons and notice to
the party or parties named therein to attend before said justice or supreme
court commissioner therein named. (0)

160. That no party to be examined who shall reside in the state of New
Jersey. shall be compelled to attend in any other county than that where
he resides, but any party residing out of this state may be compelled to
attend in any county named in the order of the said justice of the supreme
court; and a non-resident plaintiii’ may be served out of this state, with
personal notice to attend such examination,and if he does not appear, in
compliance with said notice, all proceedings shall be stayed on his part
until his appearance, of which appearance he shall give the same notice to
thc defendant as required by the next preceding section of this act.

161. That any party to be examined, named in said order of said justice
of the supreme court, may be compelled to attend before the justice of the
supreme court or supreme court commissioner, named in said order, in the
same manner as any witness may be compelled to attend upon the trial of
a civil action where he has been duly subpoenaed to attend.

162. That the said examination of said party or parties shall be taken

ducting examina

tion.
[b., Q4.

by said justice or commissioner orally, the same as on the trial of a cause,
with the right of examination and cross-examination; and said examina
tion shall be reduced to writing, and shall be signed by the party or par
ties so examined as aforesaid, and certiﬁed by said justice or commissioner,
and ﬁled with the clerk of the county where the cause is to be tried, and
said examination may be read by either party at the trial; where the ex
amination is made before a justice of the supreme court, he may authorize

(rt) See Brown v. Furl:-y, ii Slrw. 19.6.
lb) On an application for an order grantin gt permission
to take a copy oi‘ books,
pen. or documents, n os-tessioti
of the opposite party, un er the sixth and st-vent
sections
oi‘ the act concerning evidence, approved April 5th, is-‘>5. the
petition should state that the hook. paper. or tlocnment, oi‘

which, by the pleadings or hy helm; used in evidence, came
within the control of the court. I{Il_|/nrd v. Harrison, 8 i'r. lﬂl
See Brll ads. I\'r'll_|/,2 Hm". 270. But the court. in exercising this
control over papers, will merely grant lhspectlou and examina
tion by the party and his wlttiesses, either in open court. or
before an oﬂicer of the court. or in the presence of the party

which a discovery is sought,
the merits oi‘ the action or
and should also state some
which the court can judge of
and the propriety of ordering

s r E.

contains evidence relating to
proceeding, or of the defense.
facts or circumstances from
the materiality oi‘ the evidence
a iliscovery. ﬁmdlrl v. ll'nu|l,

1 Dulrh. M9. Annn mom, l'v.rt. '5l-'3
Costs will he ﬂ“l>\V(-‘fl
the applicant, prov tied he itud. before making such "PPM"
cation, rcqm-1e¢i copies of the documents, and \vasrei‘u.~t-ll.
lb. At common law, anti independent of recent Hlrtillivs,

courts of iuw had the power to order inspection of papers,

producing them or his attorney, anti will not take them from
tple lnI;ter anti deliver them into the possession oi the other
h.

ll‘) Where a corporation in a party to the record. neither the
president, secretary, the individual directors nor stocklmlrit-is
tme partlP\ to the action, and cannot he examined M10!‘ issue
Joineti anti before the trial of said action, under M-ciion I59 of
tin» practice act. A))[xr.mn v. Tm Mtittlnl lm_ (,v;_,9 |';-_2TL
Nuliunul Union Bun/sq! Dover v. Dudyr, 13 I'r. 822.

PRACTICE.

2561

the same to be reduced to writing by any clerk of any circuit court or by
any attorney or counselor of said court; any question may be objected to,
and the answer taken subject to the objection, or if the party refuse to
answer, any justice of the supreme court shall compel the party to answer
the same, if the party examining is legally entitled to have the same
answered.

163. That the examination of the party thus taken, shall not be coiiclu
sive on the opposite party, but may be rehutted at the trial by adverse
testimony.
164. That if a party refuse to attend and testi fy as hereinabove provided,
he may be punished as i'or a contempt, and all or any of the pleadings
in the case upon his part, stricken out by order of anyjustice of the supreme

Examination not
conclusive on
opposite party.

Penalty for refus
ing to attend and
testify.
1b., Q 6.

court, in his discretion.

165. That the l.iart 5' examined
shall receive
.
. the same fees as if sub
.

Fees.
Ib., Q T.

pomaed and attending as a witness on the trial ofa cause, and the justice
or commissioner taking the testimony shall receive the same fees for his
services as are now allowed by law to n master in chancery for taking
testimony in a cause.

166. That the party examining shall, in the ﬁrst instance, pay the wit
ness fees and all the costs and expenses of said examination, unless a jus
tice of the supreme court otherwise order, and shall tax therefore in his bill
of costs only such sum as a justice of the supreme court shall certify to be
reasonable and proper.

How paid
Ih., Q El.

XII. Trial.
1. wuss c/wss T0 BE TRIED.

NOTICE OF TRIAL.

168
167. [Amended by Sec. 322, pong
[Amended by Sec. 322, post.

169. That if the plaintii'l', in any action at law, shall neglect to bring his

Plaintiff to be non

cause to trial at any term of the court, after the cause is at issue, and after suited for neglect
bring cause to
sufficient time has elapsed to enable him to give the requisite notice of trial to
trial
for the ﬁrst day of the term, judgment shall be awarded for the defendant as P. L. 1865, p. 832,
in case of a non-suit with costs, unless the court, upon just and reasonable 42.
terms, allow further time. (a)

170. That if the plaintifff do not bring on the trial of the cause in due
time after issue joined, the defendant, instead of taking judgment as in case
ofa non-suit, may move the court for a trial by proviso; and of such trial
the defendant shall give the like notice to the plaintifff as the plaintifff would
have been obliged to give to the defendant; and if the defendant do not
proceed to trial according to notice, or countermand the same in due time,
the laintiif shall be entitled to costs. (b)
1

. That notice of trial shall be in writing, and given to the defendant,

if he appear in person, or to his attorney, or to the sheriff or keeper of the
jail if the defendant be in custody or in prison, at least twenty days before
such intended trial; and it shall be the duty of the said sheriff or jailer to
deliver without delay the said notice to the defendant therein named, and

Defendant may

have trial by
proviso.
R. B. 929, Q89.
Notice of trial by
proviso.

Of notice 0! trial.
Ib.. Q 66.

in default thereof, the said shci'iii' or jailer shall be liable to the said de

fendant for all damages occasioned thereby. (c)
[For notice of trial in casea struck jury is ordered,see title JURIES,

Sec. 21.]
(a) Advantage must be taken of an adveisaryis first
lhllure. Burma ads. Den. Siiepliri-ii, 8 Hut. 84. A commission
to uike deposltloiis is not s. suspension oi’ is cause. so as to
prevent a notice of trial thereof, before the return of the
commission, or without leave of the court. Slokra v. Gan-, 2
Hnr. -I-El. The plaintifff who fails to bring his cause toirial
at any clrruii. court aiier It is at is-sue. is liahlc to ajudginent

lln, 5 Dulrh. 264. See Anonymmu, PW. C. C. l. The pialntlil
may move to change ilie venue alterthe defendant has obtained
a rule for a trial hy proviso. Den, L" v. I-Jmiid. Ci1.rr ‘Z83.
(r) Proof of service of notice of trial may be made either at

the circuit or at har. Boqun v. Wnrr, l Hui. l.'>l. See Jllctburry
v. -S'uyd<un, 5 Hal. ‘Z45. Service on the plalniltfln repievin and
at the ofﬂce oi’ his wtoriiey, who was beyond seas, held good.

there must be two days‘ notice of the intention to make it.

1-lnrwnmi ads. Smrlhurrl, l l'r. 230. Alter a lapse of several
years, notice ofirlal was given by the plalntii‘l‘s counsel in the
name of the attorney on record, to the attorney ofthe defend

Bhnw ads. Rnrltnn and Del. Buy R. R. (iu.,3 l'r. 298.

ant, the latter having become. and then beinq the clerk of the

against him. as in case of a non-suit; but unless the motion for
Inch judigment is made at the term next after the ﬂrst failure,
51-e Law

mmv v. lfnlr, 4 Mb. 43. Doe-4 nut apply to the action ofre
plevln. Brvnlertclc ads. Arnrs, 3 Hur. N7. Harwood ads. SmrLh

county. Alter objection made at the lrlal-I1rI:I_ no cause for
new trial. it not appearing that the defendant had been misled

uni, 1 Vr. 230.

or surprised by such notice.
See Anonymous, 1 llur. 396.

(0) Where defendant ﬂies I. set-nﬂ‘, he may have a trial by
proviso, in the event oi‘ the plaln|.ll‘l"s laches. Eslrlluds. Prank

161

Murtirib v. Johnston, 1 Zab.280.

2562

PRACTICE.
I

When cause has
slept four terms.

Oountermand.
Ib., @ 87.

172. That when any cause shall have slept four terms after issue joined,
thirty days’ notice of trial shall be given ; after which, if the cause shall not
then be tried, -the usual notice shall be sufficient, unless the same shall
again sleep four terms.

173. That every countermand of notice of trial shall be in writing, and
given at least seven days before such intended trial, and on failure thereof,
costs shall be awarded in like manner as if notice of trial had not been
countermanded.

Short notice.
Ib., 4 68.

Notice tobe filed.
Ib., Q 70.
Amended.

174. That short notice of trial, when directed by the court, shall be given
ﬁve days before such trial.
175. That all notices of trial shall be ﬁled with the clerk at least six
days before the term, whose duty it shall be to furnish the court, on

the

ﬁrst day of every term, with a list of the causes to be tried and argued, in
their course and order. (a)
2. PROCEEDINGS .-vr rm: TRIAL.
Issues of fact
may, by consent,
be tried by court.

R. S. 1855, p. 288,
3 80.

Reference where
accounts in con
troversy.
Ib., Q 81.
Amended.

Dissent to be
entered.

Exceptions to
report.

1'76. That all issues in fact may, by consent of the parties, be tried by
the court, or if the action be pending in the supreme court, then by a jus
ticc thereof, at the circuit court, in the proper county; and the report or

determination of the court or justice upon such issue shall be entered in
the minutes of the court, or annexed to the circuit record as a postea, and
judgment given thereon in like manner as in case ofa verdict, and either
party may allege an exception, and have th'e same sealed, or move for a
new trial as in case ofa trial by jury. (b)
177. That all actions in which matters of account are in controversy,
may, b_v rule of the court, be referred to some competent person or persons
as a referee or referees, to state and report an account between the parties,
and the amount that may be due from either party to the other, which
report, when conﬁrmed by the court, shall be ﬁnal and conclusive between
the parties, and judgment entered thereon, a_nd execution issued, in the
manner provided by law in cases of reference; but either party may, at the
time of ordering such reference, enter in the minutes of the court his dis
sent therefrom, and, at the same term in which the report is ﬁled, may de
mand a trial by jury, in which case the action shall be tried by jury, the
costs of the reference to abide the result; and upon such trial, the report
of the referee or referees shall be prima facie evidence of all the facts
therein found and reported ; and the party demanding a trial by jury shall
ﬁle his exceptions to the report in twenty days after the same shall be ﬁled,
and no other exceptions shall be considered on the trial. (c)

(a) This regulation is for the convenience of the clerk alone.
Knlrirrly V. k'rnm;(I_:/, 3 Jim‘. 5|.
(bi The court is suhstiliiuwl for lhejury, and its ﬁndings on

questions of fact cannot be reviewed by writ oferror.

(blurri

bia DWI. Brulm‘ Co. v. Heis.<r, 9 l'r. 39, 5540. All that can be
reviewed is the sufficiency of the facts found to support the
judgment. (Pity of Elizubrfh V. Ilill, l0 l’r. 5.3-‘i. I>’Im'Ir_/‘owl V.
Pfuinjirlrl Gwsliyyllt (_‘n., H Vr. -H0. A-':'ot'¢1rlt' I’rl.m"ngeir Railway

00. v. Kelly, 28 1'1-. 675.
(r) Where a reference is intended to be made of distinct
actions which are pending. there must be separate rules of
reference, and separate reports; or they must be first united,
and then referred ; or in one of them a rule of reference must
be entered, with a tsllllllllxﬂinll of all matters in dispute be
tweeniheparlies. C'rm{; v. ('rui_r!, 4 I-Ml. lilrl. \\'here there is

the referee, the issues to be tried by the jury are those raised
by the pleadinsrs. The report of the referee is only evidence,
and the excepiionsmerely restrict the testimony to be oi‘Tered
against the report. .8‘. (1, 9 Vr. 4&8. Wliere thecase is regularly

noticed by the plaintifff for trial at the.-ancceedimz circuit but not
moved, and he does not show suiiicieni reason: for not proceed
lug with the trial before the circuit, the true practice is lo dis
miss the exceptions, vacate the rule for a venire, conﬁrm the
report and enter a judgment rte: um-o the same as when a rule to
show cuusehas beendislnissed in an ordinary case. Dnm v.
Susculvr, S l’r. 50. The death of one ofseveral pluinliﬂ's in n cause

referred by rule of court to referees, is not a revocai ion of the
authority oi the referees. A suggestion ofsuch death may be
entered upon the i‘£*C0l‘d. Frrrhorn \'. Drnuum, 3 Ilrll. I16. A
variance between the original rule of reference and the copy

asiatuio|-yprovision for reference lo one referee, the action

presented to the referees, the former submitting " all matters in

cannot be referred to three referees. by consent of parties.
J'nuli.-on ads. _I[r|l.~'r'y, 8 1'1‘. Lilli, fl l'r. 4*-ii. The language ofthis
section is (‘nlllprPlle|1si\'o, giving power to reler “all actions in
\\"hir*h llliiilﬁl‘ of account are in controversy." l}'op.-ill v.
]{r‘l‘W'_l/, 5 l'r. 435. ll isll|1_-L‘llill“a(‘l0r()f'lllc|1l:lllllilT'SCl3im,and

difference in the said cause," and the latter submiuini: “ail
matters in difference between the parties in the said cause," will

not the issue lnzuie upon ll, that is to deierminewhelher the
caseis wilhin the act. if the finding of such issue in favor
ofihe plniniiifwill involve the neccssit_v of settling matters
ofncr-ouut.areferelice is proper. 1!». \\~'hen a case is taken
to the circuit, and a reference there ordered, the proper place
to enter a dissent is in the circuit minutes. After that the fact
of the referenceand lhP(lis.\€*lli,lm;('ilI(‘l' with the ﬁndings ofihe
referee, should be embodied in the posten, and it, together with
the original report, returned to this court. 1Inl.<e'_u \'. Puulison,
7 i'r. 406. A conﬁrmation can be moved for at bar, subject lo
a demand for a trial by jury at the same term in which the
report is ﬁled; or such motion can be made before the circuit
justice if no demand for a trial by jury has been made. II.-. The
demand for a trial by jury must be actually made oftbe court

and not l'i_vanierc entry in the minutes. Ih.

The report of

the referee is not to be lrenlewl as filed until the posiea is also
filed. lb. After a reference and exceptions toihe report of

not viliate the report, ifit appear that the referees really went
into an examination only of the lll1lll("!“Y.~'lll(llﬂ1“I‘f'll(!Plll the
cause.
ll'€slc0lt v. Nr)r1tr1'8, 4 Hal. 99. A rule of reference once
entered cannot be discharged on motion ofone party, without
due notice to the other. Srmnnn-s v. Phm-o,1 South. ‘I23. The
refusal of one of the referees to act, duly subsunniated,
would be good ground to discharge the rule. lb. if the

report of a referee is unsupported by the evidence before
him, or if the referee must have contravened some mic of

law in reaching his conclusion, the report should be set
aside; but if it s not against the evidence in the cause. and
no rule of law has been violated. it should stand.
Filrh v.

/lrr'hib(lI(l, 5 lmlch. 160.

The report of a referee is entitled

to the same weight as the verdict of a jury upon the facts
in the case. Ih. Where a reference is ordered by the court»

with the consent of parties, the report of the referee will bi!
controlled as the verdict ofajury would be, and set aside ifnn
supported by the evidence. Excelsior Carpet Lining Cb. ads.
Ports, 7 l'r. 301. If¢~(l”l(' v. Imrid, 11 Vr. 102. See Rules of
supreme Court, Sec. 84. A report of referees will not be set

PRACTICE.

2563

178. That where more than one referee is appointed by an order of refer
ence, a report signed by a majority of the referees shall be considered as
the report of the referees.

179. That any justice of the supreme court may refer all actions in
which matters of account are in controversy, pending in said court, and
coming on for trial before such justice at the circuit court, in the proper
county, and also confirm the report of the referee or referees in such cases,
and order judgment to be entered thereon, subject, however, to all the pro
visions of the preceding section; and the postea shall be framed accord
ingly; but no such confirmation and order shall be made in vacation,
except upon two days‘ notice to the opposite party or his attorney, nor
where either party shall have demanded a trial by jury, pursuant to the
preceding section.

189. That the court or justice referring such action shall make just

Report signed by
malority of refer
ees suﬂicient.
Justice at circuit
may refer.
P. L. it-£2, p. 58, Q 1.

Postea and con
firmation.

Allowance to
referee.

allowance to the referee or referees for his or their services, to be paid in
Ib., Q 2.

the manner and by the party which said court or justice shall by order
direct.

181. That in all cases in which matters of account shall be referred by
the court, or judge, to a referee or referees, the party moving for a confirma
tion of the report shall give notice in writing of the filing thereof; and the
opposite party shall have the time limited in the statute to put in exceptions
thereto after the receipt of such notice. (a)
182. That papers read in evidence, though not under seal, may be carried
from the bar by the jury. (b)
183. That jurors who know anything relative to the point in issue. shall

Notice of ﬁling
report.

Papers in evi
deuce.

R. S. 965, N7.
Jurors witnesses.

during trial, (lisclosc the same in open court, when called as witnesses. (,0)

Ib., Q 36.

184.
dict, so
require
verdict,

Jury may give

That no jury shall in any case be compelled to give a general ver
that they ﬁnd a special verdict and show the truth of the fact, and
the aid of the court; but if of their own will they give a general
the same shall be received. ((1,)

185. That it shall not be necessary to call the plaintifff when the jury
returns to the liar to deliver their verdict; and the plaintifff shall have no
right to submit to a non-suit after the jury have gone from the bar to
coiisider of their verdict. (e)
186. That where there are in a declaration several counts. some of which
are faulty or bad, and others not. and entire damages are given, the verdict
shall he good; but the dcfeiidant may apply to the court to instruct the
jury to disregard such faulty or bad counts. (5/)
uide because the referees report the title to the land to be in the
lessons of the plaintifff. instead ofiii the dcfeiidunt: nor because

the referees report that the it.-.~<s-ors of the pluliitllf are li'ilillll!'i
in coniuion of the whole preniii~'a-s, although the declaration
contains nojointdeniise ofthe whole, but three .\<-pnratc tit-fili-ea
for entire parcels of land. Inn v. Bramls, 3 Hr. 465. Where no

daniages are found by referees, nor costs mentioned, no costs
are allowed. Amllrson \'. 1'.'.r(on,l South. '17.‘! Ht). Forms of
rule. report and judgment. ('rui{) v. (‘rm , 4 Hal. 198. Where
a re-fa.-rence is made by consent of parties, t e order of reference
beini: general in form, the report must be treated as the verdict
ofa jury. ('hil:fren’s Ilomc Assn. v.1IaIl,ls Vi. I52. l'lxcep
lions cannot be taken to the decision of‘ the court on uioiion to
confirm the re )Ol'l. The only remedy for erroneous (lt'L‘l.\l4lltS
of the referee
by motion to set aside the report and grunt a

new triui.
20 l'r. -377.

I h. Runyon v. Ifodgrx, 17 l'r. 339. I ‘(nylon v. 1/ vi/,
.\'Ftl'ttrIt' Pttx.<n|_IIH' 1!]/. Ch. V. Ii'(ll_i/, 28

general verdict.
ib., Q3-5.

Plalntlffshali not
submit to non-suit
afierjury retired.

Of bad counts.
1b., Q 38.

been made on notice of the filing of the report. pursuant to this
section, and that the entry of'indgnieut on the [inst-Pit could not
be opposed oti the lll‘(lllil(l that the referee I-rreii in the legal
principles adopted by him in making up his finding. (Myron.
V. Ix I‘!/. 20 l'r. 577.
(I1) S00 ll'ri_r/hf V. Royprs, Firn. ‘M7. It is error for the court
to n-i'ii.-0 to allow the jury to take with tin-ni from the bar the
exhibits rend in evidence at the trial. .'s'!ulr: v. 1i'u_i/rnmid,2-i
l'r. '.'t'»fl.
u-i A juror is not allowed to give evidence to his fellow-jurors
wiiliont being sworn. Aiirtn-sort v. Ilurms, Lbrr ‘J0-'3. See Den
\'. J!-'.-il!os(v‘i', ‘J llul. 46.
(ff) The court may recommend thejury to find a special ver

dict aguimt the consent ofeither or both the parties. Watkins
V. ])fIi.f(H‘ll, ('n_|1' 378. S06 Sprinflfr V. Rn ivs, 1 Nouﬂt. "-'07.
\\'i.iere the jury. by their verdict, say “ we find the full amount

l'r. 670.

of the plaintifff's claim," and it appears that there was one

Where an account is so complicated that it cannot be tried in a

amount claimed in the bill of particulars and another on the

court of law, witii any certainty that an arcu rate result can be
reached, ii. court of er uify may restrain the action at law and
aasuiiie jurisdiction. lflie practice act,uiider which references

trial before the jury, the verdict is not informally expressed,
but is ambiguous and uucertain,and cannot be amended by the
court. (Icrhub v. Whffr, ii l'r. 243. See Slewriil v. 1":Irh,'.’. l"r.
l7. 1)., L. it ll’. 1.’. I.’. (b. v. 7i)_1fr_i;,9 l’r. 5'35. The l(‘.\lliil0li)'
of jurors is 8(lllilS.\'ll)l03 to prove that, by uiere lilﬂ-ll\'t'l'l(‘ilC(‘,
their foreman !lll§\'lftli‘(l in open court the verdict upon which
they had agreed. and if‘ the mistake be ilidubiiably e-iublislietl,
ii. will be corrected. 1‘!‘fc~rs \'. Fogrirlj/, E l'r. 386.
(vi A plaintifff has a right to suffer a non-suit, on his own
motion, at any time before thejury have retired to consider of’
their \'Pl‘dl('l.. Bmmmn V. ll'ItilrIry, 28 l'r. -INT.
(!Il See Slout \'. .3'le"i~rn.t0n, l South. ‘I78, 'lr~'.£ f '1). lfurrison v.
.‘\'(u'kh'k, S/n n. 178. lb-owning \'. Slritlumn, -l Zoo. 35!. Sf: imrt
v. I-‘itch, 2 l'r. 17. Such verdict is bad wherctbc counts amount
to a misjolnder. Polls v. ('Im'kr, .8’/pen. 536. \\'in-re, in one suit,
there are several distinct causes ofuciion, it is proper to direct

are made in matters oi’ account, has not chanized the practice
of courts of equity to restrain such actions. f'r¢mr v. Eh/.10

Sim-_ HH.

An action for breach of warrant

lu which tiii|lqtil

dated damages are sought to be recove
, is not a cans:-in
which matters of account are in coiitrovcr~_\'.uiid cannot be
referred by the court, er mrro mom. 1',fm.o.n v. Snorrr, 27
l'r. -ii. \\'licre the sole question is with rt-~pt-ct to ct-riiiiii
forgcrii-s, there (‘8Ilil0t be 8. C0fllplll.~ur_\' refereiitie ()|1lq-11-1| by
[he court by virtue of the statute authorizing such refcri-nce~i
when the conirover.<y relates to accounts. Such an is~.~uie is
not within the terms of the act ziviniz to them their it-gal
signification. Nor could the letzislaturenuthorize Sll(‘llﬂ.(‘tilll‘“(‘,
as it would impair the right of a trial hyjury. Amrrirun Sole
Lb. v. Firs! .YaIi'mml Bank, .\'u;n'rnir rimrf, il'!:runr_i/ Trrm. 1896.
(u) Upon a motion f()I_lillli{iliPfll. on a postea winch shows an
issue sent for trial to the circuit, a reference thereofby the cir
cuit judge in a manner which gives to the report the force of u
verdict of a jury, pursuant to rule R4, a report of the referee in
favor of the plaintifff and its conﬁrmation by the circuit judge
on notice—Hr.’ld, such confirmation must be presumed to have

thcjury to find the issut-s separately, and l0ll!~S4.'.\L‘~i illvflitﬂlﬂgéﬂ
for vac 1 matter separately. llm-fl v. li'm-ll, ‘.3 Zub. 699. [In er
this section, where some of the counts in the declaration are

bad and others are |{ti0(l, ii verdict for eiiiirc damages is good.
The remedy of the di-feiiduiit in such cure is to apply to the
judge at the trial to disreunrd such oftlw counts as are faulty
or bad. 1)., L. fr ll’. 1.’. 1-,’. Co. v. Salinon, lu l'r. 301.

PRACTICE.

256-1
Writ of inquiry in
detlnuu.

1b., Q as.
Verdict in detinue.
1b., I 40.

Motions for new
trial and in arrest
ofjudgrn ent.
R S. 929, H5.

187. That if in detinue the verdict shall omit price or value, the court
may at any time award a writ of inquiry to ascertain the same.
188. That if on an issue concerning several things in one count in
detinne, no verdict be found for part of them, it shall not be error; but
the >lainl;iﬂ' shall be barred of his title to the things omitted.

1 9. That the party against whom .a verdict hath been rendered may
ﬁrst move for a new trial; and if it be denied, may then move in arrest of
judgment; but he shall not be permitted to move for a new trial after hc

hath moved in arrest ofjndgment and failed. (a)

190. That every special verdict and demurrer to evidence shall be

Special verdict.

Ib., Q9-i.

entered on the minutes of the court, after which either party may move
the court to assign a day for argument.
[For the mode of selecting juries and challenges, see JL'iuEs.]
XIII. Judgment.
191. That the inspection oi‘ judgment and process shall not be deemed
necessary in any case. (b)

No inspection.

R. S. ‘J29, 279.

192. That no judgment roll shall be made up in any action; but when

Proceedings
recorded which
shall be record.

any civil cause, of whatever nature it be, shall be ﬁnally determined, the
clerk of the court shall enter the warrants of attorney, declaration, plead
ings, procccdings, and judgment in such cause, so as to make a complete
record thereof in a separate book to be kept for that purpose, with a com
plete alphabetical index to the same; which entry shall constitute the
record, and shall be signed by one of the judges oi‘ the said court. as of the
day on which the judgment was entered; and the clerk for such service
shall he allowed one dollar, and no more. [See title JL'DG.\ll-INT, Sec. 4.] (0)

1b., H 77, 78.

Signed by judge.

Fee oi‘ clerk for
recording.
May be signed by

Judge thouzh not
in office when
Judgment recov
ered.
P. L. 18-I7, p. 56.

193. That the justices oi‘ the supreme court, and the judges oi‘ the circuit
courts oi‘ this state, and the judges of the court of common pleas in the
several counties of this state, for the time being, shall be, and they are

hereby authorized to sign all judgments, in their respective courts, that
have been or may hereafter be recorded in their said courts, respectively;
and such judgments, so signed by any one of the said justices or judges in
ofllce, though not in ofﬁce at the time of rendering such judgments, shall
be as good and effectual in law as ii‘ such judgments had been rendered
and recorded, and signed, by a justice or judge who was in office at the

time of rendering, recording and signing the same.
Minutes of court
evidence until
judgment
recorded.
P. L. 1863, p. 10.

194. That in any civil cause which has been heretofore or shall hereaiter
be ﬁnally determined, until the clerk of the court shall enter the warrants
of attorney, declaration, pleadings, proceedings, and judgment in such
cause, as is required by the one hundred and ninety-second section of this
act, the verdict or rule for judgment in the minutes oi‘ the court, shall be
held and taken in the court in which the same is obtained, to be the record

of the judgment in such cause, and shall be received in evidence in said
court, as such judgment, as fully as ii‘ the record had been made up and

signed as by said section required.
(rr) Judgment will be arrested where thedefendanthasa ver
dict on n notice or setoif improperly pleaded against the
|l)‘lil.lIlIl‘lll"S demand. Ball: v. Barlow and Alarm, l8 N. J.
.

. ‘.46.
(II) see Dru, Illxkrrp \-. I/rvmy, (bro 39.
tr) Di:uincI.ion lrvl\V\>i‘II Judgments iinal and interlocutory.

Sm/r v. Il'ood, 3 Zn/1. -‘>60, ﬁﬁl, Green, (.2 J.

A judgment cannot

be entered until after the postea is filed.

Damen ads. -rT!hIl.\Ylll|

1 Hr. ‘A64, 235.

A judgment by cogrnm/II alter process has

been served, may he entered in vacation, without a judge's

or commissioner’.-I order, and without nﬂldavita.

Slrwm-l v.

li'nIIr~r:, 9 l'r. ‘IT-I. The court \vl|l not give judzment on u
])0Sll'il afler a iriul, when it appears that, in truth and incl,
no pleas have ever been ﬁled in the ca\1se,unlvsaitia with

the consent oi‘ the party against whom the verdict may be.
Uulzlwrrll v. ExIrlI,§‘;nn. 326.

The judgments of ihe courts of

New Jersey must always be entered in the current money of
the ainle. Ilirrckr v. ll‘/iiiull, (bu. 84. \\‘hat is called a judg
ment nrsl, is nothing more than n rule loshow cause why judg
ment should not he rendered.
Ymnip V. )\!rPhlr.ron, hm. ‘R95,
‘S97, 1*: :Inin_I/full, .!. What (‘ﬁII§llillll'!4 a suillclcnt entry ofa
jinitunenl. by the coinlnon pious. l)In,1’mrxmrv. llopkina, I+'n.
‘H15, "_'o.'i. All the precczlenu, in debt, us.1u:ll);sil,&C., include

the Cosh with tin-sum recovereil.nnd foml oneemirejnrlgment.
Jluy v. Ii/in i/_ l‘rn. '.~.l'_', ‘>643. The entry ni‘tln-jndgnieni being
substantially correci. is not viii-.m-d bi-cause llllli(*('t§‘l&l'll}‘ pre
ceded by copies oi‘ the rules from the minutes. 1-‘rig;/.v v. Drukr,

1 Znb. 169. When ll delay in giving judzmc-nt,mnsed by the
court, aﬂ‘ecLs the rights oi’ the paruea, ihe court, when neces

sary to justice will order the Jurlgnn-nt to be entered nult
pm (rum, as od the lerm when the rnulier was submitted to

them.
$5.

I-{cu v. 0.0, 3 lob. lid.

Trlrrlrk ads. l~'luml. 5 Duh-II. B.

See Rrurkmun v. Dwclrzr, I2 C. L‘. Hr. 244.

\\'here arule

to ahuw cause had been obtained by a defendant who died
before an argument of the rule could be had. judgment, if
in favor of the plaintifff, may be entered uum: pro Iunr, moi
the term of return oi‘ the postal.

Den v. ibmlm, 3 Hm‘. I4.

(in-lira v. Lillie, 2 Gr. 878, 382, note.

Ifjudgment be contin

ued by mria advwlrr volt, and be not given until the term

succeeding that at which

the verdict was rendered, the

Judgment must be entered and signed as of such succeeding
term. Thorpe v. Lbnuin,Sp¢n. 311. See Jone: v. Oliver, 8 Hal.
86. A final judgment cannot properly be entered mmr pm

l1m<',wllh0uI- s s weciai order o the court. B1-in Rummy Cb.
v. Ackermn, 4 Pr. 83. Aﬂer a Judgment has been actually
signed, no addition can be made to it by iheinsertion o( the
costs or the iilling up ofthe In lolo alllngnml clause, nor can U18
costs be rightly put in the execution unless they actually formed
n part. oi the Judtzment. Dru v. Morn, 7 HoL 83L (huunnn v.

TI'ﬂ]lhllﬂfﬂ, Sn.r. 230. Such irregularity is to be corrected when
directly questioned, and not collaterally. Limnnnn v. Trap
hu_m-n, Sax. m, 231. The exact time of entry may be rowd
as matter drlwrn the record, by competent evidence.
unl v.
Sux|yzr', M l'1'. 33.

2565

PRACTICE.
[For judgment by default, see supra.

For mode of recording, docket

ing judgments, entering satisfaction and lien of, see title JUDG.\iEN'l‘S.
For mode of entering judgments on bond and warrant of attorney, see
that title.]
[Judgments of the circuit court and court of common pleas may be
docketed in supreme court. For -proceedings to docket and effect of judg
ments, and execution and error thereon, see title JUDGZ\lENT8.]

Docketing judg

ment in supreme
court.

XIV. Execution.
1. IN oansasn.

195. That upon judgment for debt, damages, and costs, or other sum of
money, in the supreme court, or in any circuit court or court of common
pleas of this state, the party obtaining the same may have execution against
the body or against the goods and chattels, or against the goods and chat
tels, iands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate of the party against
whom such judgment is or shall be awarded; but no execution shall be
issued against the proper goods and chattels, lands, tenements, heredita
ments, and real estate of any executor, administrator, heir or devisee, unless
he or she should have made his or her estate liable for the money so recov
ered by false pleading or otherwise. (a)
198. That the party at whose instance any writ of execution shall issue
against the body or against the goods and chattels, or against the goods
and chattels, lands, tenements, hereditaments, and real estate of any person,
shall indorse on the said writ, before it be sealed, the debt, damages, and
costs, or sum of money really due and to be made. (b)
197. That executions against goods and chattels, or against goods and
chattels, lands, tenements and hereditaments, may be made returnable and

returned, either in term or in vacation, and for the purpose of such return
the court shall be always open, except on Sunday, and upon such return
being made in vacation, the like proceedings may follow and be had
thereon, as if the same were made at a regular term of the court.

198. That upon all judgments recovered or docketed in the supreme
court, executions may issue at the same time to any county or counties in
this state without any suggestion of the issuing of a prior execution to the
county in which the venue may be laid; provided, that if more than one
execution be levied at the same time, there shall not be any sale made of

Against whom to

issue.
R. S. 976, I l.

Executm-s, helm,
devisees.

Indorsement.

Against goods
and lands return

able in term or
vacation.

P. L. 1871,p. 7.
Amended.

On Judgments in
supreme court to
several counties.
P. L 1%, p. 288,
Q 41.
Amended.

the property of the person against whom such executions are issued under
more than one of them, except to satisfy a deﬁciency remaining after a

sale under that one; and if any sale be made contrary to this provision,
the party in whose favor such executions are issued and his attorney shall
be liable to the other party as trespassers, for all damages he may sustain

thereby, to be recovered in an action of trespass; and the court or a judge
may, for good cause shown, stay the proceedings on any one or more of

such executions, or direct under which a sale shall ﬁrst be made, or order
the proceeds of any sale to be paid into court.
(n) .\'o execution can be sealed or recorded until the rule for

costs, if the

Court may direct
under which exe
cution sale shall
be ﬁrst made.

iaintlff sued in his own right; but ifhe sued as

judgment is actually entered on the minutes. h‘ullIIl v. 7':-mlon
Drl. Halls 00., hymn. lid. Execution may be issued immediately

exeeutoror a ministrator, no judgment mu therein be entered
against him for such balance, but it becomes a tiebi. of record,

after the return of the postea and the entry ofa rule for_|ndg

the truth of which cannot be questioned, and which can be
enforced only by action of debt or by scire jut-ms, and which

ment m.ri' : hutifa rule isaliowed tn show cause why thereshouid
not be a new trial, the execution becomes a nullity. Erie R. R.

Ch. v. Ackrrmn, 4 Fr. M.

It is irregular to take out execution

penriinga motion to show cause why execution should not issue.
Still: v. ll'rnnl, One 162 The supreme court will set aside an
execution which has been issued alter the death of the piaintiif.
lfarwurxl v. Jfurphy I Gr. ii'l3. aﬂirmed Fcb., 183?. See Quigley
v. .\!|rhll.rIun, 6 HuL
Dru v. Illnumup, Span. 01?.
Wade v.

Sruihln-,2 ﬁmlh. '6Bi.

Where the plainiiifdies after the entry

of the ludgment, his sdministmtors cannot be substituted pinin
aifﬂls in orticlr tobizsue ag‘r.;l1tI|}AI|:|.d :l'¢tgivIrII:
1
, iépen. lige.

an execut on
test
ni e e en ants et me, tma
taken out and executed after his death. Den, Rirkey v.
ll
mnn, 2 HuL I80. On an application for leave to issue execution
mzninst acertiﬂcated ban rupt. on ajudgment obtained before
his discharge, upon allegation of fraudulent preference ofcredl
tors, the court can and will, in a proper case, order an issue to
gy the facts Omirn v. Harris, 2Zuli. 5-I0. lfan executor or

must be responded in according to the inws regulating the

administration of estates. -s'Iiiuu v. PﬂlI‘1‘8lI!I. 2 Hm’. 322.
(I1) On a bond payable in installn\enis,judgment was obtained

and execution had issued thereon iutioned tor the whole sum.
Held, that the execution was right, but the lli(iUl'M'l'|lt~||i wrong.
(71-iﬂilh v. Jnuu, Mn. ‘Q32. The practice is, to ill(lUl$t' upon the

execution the sum orinsiaiinient actually due, and make the
levy for that amount only. li'uru'irk v. Mullurk, 2 Hui. 166,167.
If the indorzements are erroneous, they may be corrected, on

m0il0l'l, Hlnvur v. Drlntmre and Rm-. (Ymul Ga, l 1-Inr. $5.
When judgment on a verdict is entered for nix cents damages
with costs, which are afterwards taxed at 1110.9-i, and s cu. m.

is issued, indorsed, " amount due. one hundred and eleven dol
lars; damages and costs,Qlii," the writ will not be set aside,
although the intiorsement is not in strict coufonnily with the
statute, which requires the plaintifffto indorse upon every such

miuistrator plead payment with notice ofset-oil‘ under the

writ the real debt or damages due and claimed by him, and the
costs of suit, in words at length. fhynuvon ads. Null. Ru IV s, 2

statute, and obtain a verdict for a balance due to his iestator or
intestate, he may have judgment and execution thereon, with

Vr. 288. Ii‘ the statute is imperative and nut merely directory,
the departure from it is too small to be fatal lo the writ. lb.

PRACTICE.

2566
Actions against
principal and
surety.
Ib., § 40.

Judgment after
payment kept
alive for beneﬁt
of surety.

When execution
on second judg
ment stayed.
May issue within
twenty years
afterjudgmeut.
P. L. 1855, p. 288,
Q 42.

Notice. how
served.
When defendant
does not reside in
‘the state.
P. L. 1869, p. 1296.
Amended.

199. That in actions against a principal and surety or sureties, where
an execution has been issued, the court or a judge, on application of any
surety, and notice of the application to the principal debtor and to the
plaintiﬂ‘, may direct the sheriff, or other oﬂicer, after making a levy upon
the property liable to the execution, to make the money out of the property
of the principal, if it can be done. before selling the property of such surety ;
and if the judgment be paid by a surety, it shall not be considered satisﬁed,
except as to such surety ; and he, on like application to the court or a judge,
and like notice, and subject to such regulations as may be imposed, shall
have the full beneﬁt and control of the judgment, for the purpose of com
pelling repayment from the principal or contribution from his co-surety,
and on this last application, the court or judge may order an issue to try
the questions in controversy. (a)

200. That if the defendant bring a writ of error, and the plaintifff bring
an action on the judgment, and recover, he shall not sue out execution on
the second judgment till the writ of error be determined.

201. That execution may issue, without a revival of the judgment by scire
facias, at any time within twenty years from its recovery; provided, that
if more than six years have elapsed since the recovery of the judgment, a
special order of the court or a judge thereof shall be necessary before the
execution issue, to be made upon ten days’ notice to the defendant of the
application therefore, and proof to the satisfaction of the court or judge of
the amount remaining due upon thejudgment. (b)
202. That the notice required by the last preceding section shall be served
upon the defendant personally, or by leaving a copy at his residence in
case he resides within this state; or ii‘ he do not reside in this state, then

by publication, as the court or a judge thereof shall direct, in a newspaper
printed and circulating in any county where the defendant may be pos
sessed of real estate, or have any estate or interest therein, for the space
of twenty days next preceding such application, at least once in every

week during said time, and the cost of such publication shall be included
in said execution and collected thereby.
'
Death of one of
several parties
plaintifff.

Death of sole
party piaintiﬂ‘.

203. That when one or more of several parties in whose favor judgment
is recovered shall die after judgment and before execution issued, execution
may be sued out in the name of the survivor or survivors, such death
being suggested on the record.
204. That where a sole party in whose favor a judgment is recovered
shall die aﬂer judgment, it shall be lawful for the court in which such judg
ment was recovered, or for any judge thereof, on the application of the
executor or administrator of the deceased, to make an order that such death

An execution
may issue in

name of executor.
Administrator de
bonis non L0 have
execution.
B. S. 350, Q 5.
Amended.

and the fact of the grant of letters testamentary, or of administration, be
entered upon the record; and thereupon execution may issue on such
judgment in the name of the executor or administrator, without the judg
ment being revived by scire facias. (0)

205. That where any judgment shall be had in the name of any executor
or administrator, and administration de bonis non shall afterwards be

granted, such administrator de bonis non may, by order of the court, or a
judge, suggest such grant of administration on the record, and have execu
tion on such judgment in his own name, or may sue out a scire facias to
revive the same.

((1) See Brown v. ﬂ’l|Ilr,5 Dulch. Bi-I, reversing Brown V.
While, 5 Dulrh. 307. Paulln v. Kalplm, 5 Dutch. 480. Irlck V.
Black, 2 U. E. (-‘r. 189.
(la) A special order is not required before issuing an allru,

where an execution hm! been issued within a year after the
recovery of the judgment, and returned unsatisﬁed.

v. Vonrhn-s, G I‘:-.484.

Clqﬂln.

An application to the orphans’ court

\viil not bar n scirr fuclm issued to rcvlvenjudgment entered
before the application was made, nor prevent the issuing of
execution upon such judgment when revived. Huuvll v. Huts,

Spcn. 1.

A motion to issue a srirr l'I(‘|Il-K is of course, and no

notice need he given to the oppos le party. l¥u1‘:¢ v. Bur-he,
(bu 206. A rm-r fnritls may issue where an execution has been

parli ' satisfied.
may

Siillv v. libod, (hr: lhi. That a scire /uclaa

l\lni.‘ll(lt'd, see Cimdil v. (.'r¢"pory, l Z110. 429.

(r) In 1871 the plaintifff recovered a gudgrnent against the
defendants, an execution was issued an returned unsatisﬁed:
in 1s“,2 the pinlntifrdled, but the met ofhis death was unknown
to his nttornev: in 1873 nu alias execution was issued, and
property of defendants levied on ; on motion to quash [he writ

Jlcld, that prior to the passing of the amended practice net,
upon the death ofn sole pialutiifafter tinaijudgment, an execu
tion could only |)ro rly issue in the name of the plaintifff‘!
ersonai representat ves, and no other method hut the proceed
ng by scire fariru would serve tn bring them into court. Alar

grin v. 7h_r/Ior. 9 I'r. 8l7.

The fact that the plaintifff's attorney,

who caused the alias writ to be issued, was. at the time of its

is]-rue. unlnjizrnied oi‘ the piaint1ﬂ‘s death, will in no u-ny affect
t e case.
.

PRACTICE.

2567

206. That where one or more of several parties against whom a judg
ment has been recovered, shall die alter judgment and before execution

issued, execution may be sued out against such parties as if such death
had not occurred, but the executions shall be executed upon the persons
and roperty of the survivors only.
2 7. That if a party, in whose favor a judgment shall be recovered, shall
become bankrupt, and the proceedings in bankruptcy shall have proceeded
to the appointment of an assignee, or shall make an assignment for the
equal beneﬁt of his creditors, before execution issued, it shall be lawful for
the assignee of such party to suggest such bankruptcy or assignment upon
the record, and issue execution upon such judgment in his own name.
208. That whenever a writ of scire facias shall issue out of any of the
courts of record in this state, the sheriff or other oiﬁcer to whom the writ of

scire facias shall be directed, shall serve the same either personally on the
defendant, or by lea\'ing the copy of the writ with some person of the

Death of one of
several parties
defendant.

Execution by
asslgnee oi’ bank

rupt or insolvent
on judgment be
fore bankruptcy,
ac.

Sclre fscias, how
served.

R. s. sm, i 104.
Amended.

age of fourteen years, at his or her usual place of abode, at least six days
before its return.

209. That whenever a writ of scire facias shall issue, and the defendant
has removed out of the jurisdiction of the court issuing such process, or

cannot be found by the sheriff or other officer to whom the writ shall be
directed, the plaintifff may proceed as though the said writ of scire facias
had been duly served in the manner prescribed in the next preceding sec
tion of this act; provided, the said plaintifff ﬁrst cause the said writ to be

published four successive weeks in one of the newspapers printed in this
state, as near the last residence of the defendant as can be conveniently
ascertained, or cause a copy of the said writ to be served on the defendant,
wherever found, either in this state or in any other place, at least twelve

if the defendant
non-resident.

Ih., 1 105.

Publication or
service on defend
ant wherever
found.

days before the return thereof. (a)
210. That every sheriff, under-sheriﬂ', or coroner of this state, to whom Sheriﬂ‘ to ﬁle
of
any execution is or shall be delivered, shall, without fee or reward, when he statement
amount col
returns said execution, return and ﬁle with the same, in the ofﬁce of clerk lected, &c.
of the court from which the execution issued, a true statement, in writing, P. L. 1863,11. 409.
specifying the amount of money, if any, and the time when collected by

him, and the balance due thereon, and also the items of his bill of costs
or execution fees, veriﬁed by his written oath or affirmation annexed to
or indorsed on said statement, which statement shall not be conclusive

against any person other than the oﬂicer making the same; and the sheriff,
under-sheriff, or coroner shall not be entitled to receive or collect of the

Not entitled to
fees till state~
ment ﬁled.

plaintifff any fees or costs thereon, until he shall have returned such state
ment, veriﬁed as aforesaid.
[Property subject to levy.
From what time execution binds.
I-Iow

sales under are made. Exemption laws.
trust, &c., &c., see title EX!-ICU'l‘l0N.]

Discovery of property held in

2. CAPIAS AD SATlSFACIENDU.\i.

211. That the writ of capias ad satisfaciendum shall not be awarded or
issued upon any judgment founded upon contract, express or implied,

When ca sa. may
issue.

R. s. 321, Q2.

except—

F-irst. Upon satisfactory proof being made before a justice of the supreme
court, or a supreme court commissioner, to be certiﬁed by such justice or
commissioner, and ﬁled in the oiiice of the clerk of the court wherein such
judgment was recovered, establishing the particulars speciﬁed in either of

the subdivisions of the ﬁity-eighth section of this act; or,
Second. That the defendant has rights or credits, monies or effects,
either in his own possession or in the possession of any other person or
(rz) This and the preceding section applying to the same sub
ject-mntter, mustbe construed to operate co-extensive] . Orni
gq v, .s'l_1/er, 3 Zab. ‘L36. Judgment cannot now be ren ered, us
It common law, upon I return of nihll to two writs of scire

jarias, but only upon an actual service or publication of the
writ. lb. Publication is not required in case of u special scire

Judas. issued to show cause why lands leggdéogsby a deceased
sheriff, should not be sold, aw. (R. S .
.
). Ha ifllll v.
»S):ad1:r, 3 llal. 132. I n Rrrzl v. Bainbrldmrhi South. ‘-151, alter
a personal service on defendant out oft e slate and rule for
appearance, Judgment was entered.

2568

°°'"‘bYP‘““""*
‘I’s_t,(;r;"“t°'

PRACTICE.
persons to his use, of the value of ﬁfty dollars or over, which he unlawfully
and fraudulently refuses to apply in payment of such judgment. (a)
212. That the oath or atiirmation required by the preceding section,
may, if the person by whom the same is to be made be out of the state, be

made before a judge of any court of record or notary public of the state,
kingdom or nation in which such person resides or happens to be.
(kc. sa. may issue
if order for ca. ad
res. in force.

Ib., Q 3.

213. That where an order to hold the defendant to bail has been duly
made according to the provisions of the ﬁfty-eighth section of this act, and
remains in force, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff, upon the recovery of a

jttdgment in such action against the defendant, to issue a capias ad satis
faciendum without any other or further proof, notwithstanding anything
Not applicable
to contempt.
Indorsement on

in the preceding sections contained.
214. That nothing in the last three preceding sections shall apply to
proceedings as for contempt to enforce civil remedies.
215. That the plaintifff shall indorse on every capias ad satisfaciendum

ms“

before the delivery thereof to the sheriff, the real debt or damages dtte and

RS'm"80'

claimed by such plaiutitf, and the costs of suit, in words at length. (b)

XV. Miscellaneous provisions.
l. :~1o'r1cr:.

Noﬂceorspecial
motion before the
court or ajudge.

216. That there shall be two days’ notice of all special motions before
the court or a judge, in matters of practice, unless otherwise specially

directed by this act; provz'tIetl, that if the exigency of the case be such as
not to admit of such not-ice, the court or judge may dispense with such

notice and make such order as the ends ofjustice may require; but no
application for any judgment or other proceeding in the regular course of
the cattsc shall for this purpose be considered a special motion. (0)
(rt) 'l‘he fraud which by the constitution of this state may
subject a debtor to arrest and imprisonment, is not confined
to fraud in the creation of the debt, but extends to sub

sequent fraudulent conduct of the debtor for the purpose of
dei'eating his creditor in the recovery of the debt by due course
oi‘ law. bit pm-In Ulurk, Sprn. 648. The clause in the constitu
tion prohibitin;.: imprisonment fordebt except in cases of fraud,
is not incompatible with any of the provisions of the act of 18-i2
abolishing itnprisonmentfor debt. lb. A ca. rm. cannot be isstted
pending proceedings under the act to prevent fraudulent trusts

on the bond, or have an alias ca. sa., or issue execution against
goods or lands or bring an action on thejudgment. IJum'd V.
Bluruldl, ll l'r. 373. Such ulius cu. mt. may be sued out at the
instance of the surety on the insolvent bond, who, alter for
feiture of the bond, has paid the plaintiff and taken an assign
ment of the. judgment. ll».
(b) An attachment for contempt is not in the nature ofa ra.
.20., and it is not necessary to make such indorsetnent thereon.

.8‘/ore v. (htlick, 2 Jlnr. 435. See.1"crg|t.wu ads. Slule, 1.'utrs,2
l'r. 283.

Supra, Sec. 196 (hi,

and tL°~Sl;.’,'lllIl@lll8. Bownn ads. TIIILI, I l'r. 840. The proof of

(r) A notice ofan application to reinstate an action should be

the circutnstances necessary to authorize the award of a ca.
ca. is to be to the satisfaction of the Judge or commissioner.

written and not verbal. Hun! v. Lanyslroth, -i Hal. '.!'.'l5. All
notices in matters of practice itr this court, whether required
by the practice act,or by the rules oi‘ this court, l‘llU.-l hein
writing, unless otherwise expressed in the act ofassetnbiy,orin
the rule oi‘ this court, requiring the same. Tlllou \'. Jlulchmnan,
8 Gr. 178. Un all special motions, the other party is entitled to
two days’ notice.
Dru v. llfultaclr, 2 Jim-. 354. Wherea motion
is made on behalfofa. defendant in coniinemeutafterscntence,
to take up hiscase ottt ofits turn, special notice to the attorney
general must be proved. Stone v. Stale, Spnt. -KN. So. a motion

The legality of the evidence received by him, and its
applicability, ma
be reviewed: but its weight and credi
btlity rest with t e commissioner. Wire v. B7'mt'm'n{7, Spen.

864.

The officer who makes the order to hold a debtor to

hall on the ground of fraud, is the exciusivejudge of the weight
of the evidence, and this court will not review or set aside his
order upon the weight ofevidence; but when there was no evi
dence hefore him of any legal fraud, they will review it. Van

Wagenrn v. (be, 2 Yab. 53l.

It is not sutiicient for the commis

sioner to decide that there was proof, to his satisfaction, that the
defendant had rights or credits, monies or etfeets, either in his
own possession or in the possession oi‘ some other persons: in
the words of the act, he should specily by means ot’ which
of the several things mentioned the rand w:=.s committed.
Bmunc v. Tilus, l l’r. 340. The order made by the justice or
commissioner must show, upon its face, that he has Cull'~iti('l‘(.*(l
and decided upon the evidence of fraud submitted to him.and
that the proof was to his satisfaction. Hill ads. Htlltl,-S‘/:1'n.
476. A co. so. must be directed to the sheriff of the county in
which the venue is laid ; although the defendant was arrested
in another county, anti entered into ret-o;;nizaut-e of bail with
00ntiltion thnt he pay, 620., or render himself to the sin-rill‘ of
sand count_v where the arrest was made. (tor/rrun ads. Drukw. 3
Jim-. 9. The hail as well as his rlncipal is bound to take
notice where the. venue is lnid ands iould search fora cu. sa. ill
the oliice of the sheriff oi’ that county to know whether the

plaini'1i‘ intends to proceed bycxecution agaittst the defend
ant‘s body. I I». In order to iix the bail on a recognizance. the
sin-rill‘ tnny he instructed to return a I'll. nu. “ non est imv"n(u.~,"
althoutzh he miuht have served it on the defendant. But ifthe
defendant. be in the sheriil"s custody, such a return cannot
be made. Van li'|'nkle: v. Ailing, 2 Hm-. -H6. The sheriiT is not
bound to arrest the defendant upon a ca. sa. lodged with him
for fixing the hail, even if he can arrest hint as well as not. Jb.
An ulivu ¢_‘(|pl(l.1 ml :mti.~fm~imulttm may be isstied against ade
fendaut who, on his arrest under the ()I'li.,'iliu.i cupim ml autis
fm-irnritnrt, imve bond to the sheriff, under the insolvent debtors‘
act, and wtu-t released from custody, and was afterwards
refused a dischartze b_v the court on the hearing‘ ofhis applica
tion l'or the benefit ofthe insolvent law. The plaintifff, in such
I CELSL‘, is not restricted to an action on the bond. lie may sue

to quash a crrlioruri because hnpmviticntly L~.<ued.

More v.

Roml, Phi. "949. Also, 8. Inolion for 8 rule to show catise.
(franc ads. (iuntlit, 1 .Hur. 3-I9. Iltllscy ads. Von ll'd;n1u.'n, l

1!ur.8w.
fttclus.

No notice is necessary of a motion to iasuensmvr

.P!.'(H'8 v. Btu-fur, (Lbrw ‘ltlti.

A notice which states thata

motion will be made on Friday the seventh (when Friday
is the eitzhth of the month), is bad.

3 Jlal. 363.

Brown v.

li'ilIimn.~nn,

The notice of taking affidavits, to be u.-<~<l on

the argument of a rule to show cause, should be given to the
attorney, and not to the party.
Inn. \'. t-'ri,ucr, -I Hal. 2%
A notice to assess damages upon a judgment entered upon
a sin-riil"s bond, is properly served upon the sherirf and

his sureties, and net-t not be served upon the attorney who
appeared for the tiefendants in the suit on the bond. Muir:
v. Ilunutlon, 5 Jlul. 190. Notice of inking aflitiuvitsntttst be
given to the opposite party, although he has not ﬂli|W1lR*1
Wurford V. -\.'uuIIt, 1 Dutch. ‘ll?-. Sltlh; V. JtIx([¢-(_*_g of Jlttl(lll'$t.'!Y,
(bu: 244, 245. Stale V. Lyon, (luv: 403, 409. Proof Of the

service of a notice of taking affidavits to be useti on the
argument of a cause, may be. made, 1-|'1.'<t coca, at the bar

of the court where the uiiidavits are offered to ht‘ "'8"
Anorty/nmts, 7 Ilul. 94.

t>‘ee ﬁlctiourr

\'. .S‘ny¢l(|m, 5 }!(tl. 245.

motion for time to plead isaspecia motion.
ads. Jlodgm, 4 Zab. 673.

A

Tlrrnlon lm. (b.

No notice is necessary ofaﬂidavit to

obtain a rule to show cause.

Orttnc ads. (tmdil, I Hm: 349.

Hal.-:e_u ads. Van Wagcncn, 11101-. 350.

Notice must be i!'l\'9ll OT

an application to discharge a defendant on common hall. Mor
ris ads. (Jripvr, 5 Hal. 331. Notice of a motion lven lo UN-‘
tultninistrator of the attorney, ten years after is death ii!
insutlicit-nt.

Waddle \'. Dayton, 8 Ilttl. 174.

\\'hether notice OT

a motion for a mrtlorari need be given, see Sluts v. Gmzrarm.
2 Gr. 3&8. t\,'l(|I(' v. Jlorrls (ltmal (D., 7 Jial. 365.
Brunswick, (.'o.rc 393.

Slate v. New

PRACTICE.

2569

217. That all notices required to be given by this act shall be in writing,
and shall be served upon the attorney, when the party appears by attorney,
unless otherwise specially provided. (rt)

218. That where, by any act of the legislature of‘ this state, now in force
or hereafter to be enacted, advertisement, publication, or notice of any
suit, order or proceeding, in any court oi‘ this state, is required to be made
or given in any newspaper printed and published in this state, the court
in which such suit may be pending, or by which such order or proceeding
may be made or taken, may, whenever the circumstances of the case shall,
in the opinion of the court, require a more extensive publication, order and
direct such advertisement, publication or notice, to be made or given in
one of‘ the newspapers printed and published in one of the other states of

Notices, how
served.

Court may order
publication of
notice in another
state.

It. S. 957, Q2.

the United States, or in the District of Columbia, at the discretion of the

con rt, and for such time as the court may deem proper.
[By the ﬁrst section of the act of‘ February twenty-fourth, eighteen hun
dred and thirty, all acts of the legislature requiring publication of notice
of any suit, order or proceeding in any court of this state, in any other
state, or service of any such order or proceeding on persons residing out of‘
this state, were repealed; the preceding section is the second section of‘
that act, R. S. 957.]
2.

AFPIDAVITS.

219. That affidavits taken in pursuance of any rule of court, shall be
taken on four days’ notice of the time and place of taking the same.

220. That when leave is granted by rule to either party in a cause to
take affidavits, both parties may take affidavits within the purview of such
rule, without further leave or rule; and on notice for the taking of affida
vits, given by either party, both parties may take affidavits, but the officer
shall, if required, ﬁrst take the affidavits of the party giving the notice. (I1)

221. That the party producing the witness shall ﬁrst examine him with
out interruption, and then the other party shall cross-examine, if he shall

Notice or taking.

Both parties may
take under rules
obtained by
either.

Examination,
how conducted.

think fit; and the testimony shall be reduced to writing by the officer
himself, or by the deponent, and shall be signed by such deponent.
3.

HABEAS coarus cum cars.-\.

222. That any suit or action commenced in any circuit court, or court
of common pleas, where the debt, damages, matter or t-hing in controversy
shall exceed two hundred dollars (but not otherwise), may be removed
into the supreme court at any time before issue joined by writ of habeas
corpus, ﬁrst duly allowed by one of the justices of the said supreme court;
provided, the defendant shall, at or before the allowance of said writ, enter
into recognizance to the plaintifff with two sufficient sureties in double the
sum demanded, for the payment of the condemnation money and costs, in
case judgment shall pass against him; which recognizance shall be ﬁled
with said writ and returned with the same to the supreme court, and in de
(n)_ The notice of taking atﬂdavlts to found thereon an
l|1pltC3ll0n for an attachment, is properly served on the
party and need not he served on his nttomey. Flam
ell
v. 7/Iln'x,2 Ilut. 3|. L‘/ule v. Erl.mlI.5 I-fat. i90, i9i. Proo of
mailing to a sheriff a capias and a notice of nmercement, and
that he has served and returned the caplas, is presinn tive
proofihat he received the notice. hut not that he received ll ten
days before the ﬁrst dny of the term. Mrlvm v. P:n'd,l/. 2 Har.
iG'.’.. Proof of putting a letter containing a notice into the post
oﬂice, directed to the opposite attorney. is not suiﬂclent proof
of the service of such notice to found thereon an up lication in
the attorney's absence.

Anonymous, 6 Hal. N.

here the

attorney of I lunatic ceases to act, the notice to substitute
another attorney must be served upon his committee.

Den v.

Ibtger, 8pm. 1i-5. Anlz, p. 1-i02and 1403, notes fr) and (p).
(0) An ezspm-Iraﬂidav t taken without notice in theabsence of
the opposite party and of his attorney, cannot be read. Dare v.
Ogden, Lb.r¢ 9i.

Onper V. (lrllbrﬂilh, 1 lab. 2lD.

lnylnn V.

Lboper, Pvn. '65. See Vumtrrvn-e v. Rrmlin , I 8/01-Ir. 445.
Stale v. Gwen, 3 Gr. 88. An ta: parts aﬂidav tallowed to be
read on the motion to set aside verdict. Jlurwood v. Smelhursl,
1

Vr. 230.

See Lummta v. Stratlon, Pen. "245.

A rule to take

Suits removable
to supreme court

ifsum exceed

Ii-ecognlzance oi
hail.

aiﬂdnvits only authorizes the inking of legal and competent
evidence, and should specify the purpose for which the aﬂida
vits are to he taken. mm v. Bmlly. 3 Zah. 2'16, 260. A rule to
take atﬂduvits does not expire at the next term afteritis urken
but stands until the cause is a red. Roan-s v. Clmdwu-k 5 Hal.
59. Wlien a general rule In o inlned by one party to lal<eai’ﬂ
davlis for a specific purpose, both arties have leave. by virtue
nf the rule. An0nymmu,4 Ilul.
. Er pm-he affidavits may
be used for the purpose of obtaining n rule lo show cause, hut
are not competent lo prove the facts necessary to supports

motion out of court, or to he read on the hearing of a rule to
show cause depending on facts extrinsic in the rccord ; such
facts can only be brought before the court hy depositions taken
on notice. Baldwin v. Firing, H Vr. 49-’). The practice Of

taking affidavits ex parlr, to he used on the argument ofa
motion, is peculiar to the court of rhancery, and has never
been adopted in the courts ofiaw. In. An application for an
order setting aside roceedings on a bail bond, &c., cannot be
heard on rxparle a davits served, instead ofde
ltions taken
on notice. Atkinson v. Prime, i7 Vr. 33. See Ru es ofsupremo
Court 62, 83.

PRACTICE.

2570

fault thereof, said suit or action shall not be removed, nor said writ
returned. (a)
Ball on habeas

223. That exceptions to the bail required upon the removal of a cause

corpus may be
excepted to.

by habeas corpus shall be taken and entered in the clerk’s book at the
return of the said writ or within ten days thereafter, and justiﬁcation shall
be made within the time and in the manner prescribed for the justification
of bail in other cases; and if such bail, when excepted to, shall not be per
fected in due time, the plaintifff shall have a procedendo.

IR. S. 929, @911.
Amended.

Courts open, ttrc.
P. L.

D. my

4 13.
Not to be received
after issue joined.

R. S 929, 287.

Nor utter cause
once remanded.
1b.. 4 88.

\Vheu writ may
be disregarded.
Ib., Q89.

224. That the circuit courts and courts of common pleas,in and for the
several counties of this state, shall be open at all times for the presentation
and return oi‘ writs of habeas corpus in civil cases.
225. That no writ of habeas corpus, for the removal of a cause, shall be
received by the circuit court or court of common pleas, to which it may be
directed, nor shall any cause be removed by such writ, after issue joined
upon matter of law or of fact. (_b)

223. That if any cause be removed or stayed by writ of habeas corpus,
and afterwards be remanded or sent hack by writ of procedendo or other
writ, the same cause shall never again be removed or stayed by any writ of
habeas corpus.
227. That if any writ of habeas corpus, for the removal of a cause, shall

be issued out of the supreme court, contrary to the true intent and mean
ing of this act, then the court to which such writ shall be directed or offered
shall proceed in the said cause as though no such writ had been issued or
offered.

Proceedings on
return of habeas
corpus.
Ib., Q93.

228. That upon the return of the habeas corpus, the plaintifff shall be
deemed to be in court, and the declaration and pleadings of the parties
shall be ﬁled within the time allowed or granted in other cases; or else
the plaintiff shall be nouprossed, or judgment be awarded against the
defendant.

4.

Venue in supreme
court issues.

R. S. 196, Q4.

Unless trial at bar
ordered.

229. That every issue joined in the supreme court, or any other court
and brought into the supreme court to be tried, and which is or may be
triable by the country, shall be tried in the county where the lands, tene
ments or hereditaments in question are sitttate, or the cause of action or
offense hath arisen or been committed, or shall arise or be committed; (0)
unless the supreme court, upon motion in behalf of this state, if the state
be interested, or upon motion of either party in the action, shall think
proper to order the trial to be at the bar of the said supreme court, which
shall only be done where the matter or property in dispute shall be of the

(nl A huhms rmyms is the proper writ to remove 8. civil
action from the common pleas into the supreme court.
L‘/mmlh r v. Jfomnmr/h Bunk. 4 Hui. tot. On removinga cause
by Iu|l)rn.q (~ru'pu<, bani must he put in (even h_v a corporation)
according to the stattite, ii‘ required by the plaintiff. Morris
(‘anal (*0. tNl‘~‘. i'rtnulIa, 2 Jim’. l-39. Jim-r¢Ilis V. l{umbur_n ('11.,

D'n.".HS.

vmun.

(hi lmhrntt r-m-pus the defendant will not be per

mitted to file common hail. although bail below wa.- not
requimd, where the cause removed was commenced by
summons. .4r|rnt,!/mnilx, 1'l"Il. '64]. \\'ht-re the defendants
were administrators, the court ordered common hail to he
liled.on removing a cause from the common pleas. Snrrid
ads. iiwllm, 2 -South. "6‘i'.Z. ,-lnonynioitx, Pen. ‘.539. Nor will

the plalntiif be permitted to file n waiver of bail on Imhms
r‘m'/ms. in order that the cause might be continued and tried in
the supreme court. (‘rum v. 1)'t.'I'l‘_l/, 2 South. ‘S52. \\'here no
bail is filed nor \\'ﬂl\'|-I‘ oi’ it entered, the practice is for the
pinintitfto have his option, eltherby proccedingin the supreme
court. or taking u. procnlenvlo. Morris (.'rtnItl Co. ads. I'urm!(u, 2
1Im'.i:'»*.l. Dirkmsrntads. Morris .Bunk.1 Jlur. 35-i. See Craig
V. 1»’vrr_v/,2»SouIh. ‘S-5'2. Jfnrrtllis \'. 1{um.!nu'g ('11.. }"'I'It. “J48.
On /m/nus corpus where the dt-i'endant had not ﬂied hall, no
bail being required below, the supreme courtgranu,-d leave to
take ten days to file ret.-ott|ii1.uiicc. lifurr-1 (lis v. 114!/Itl1|1'!'_(I Cm,
Ilrtn. '!H.*4. So. the |)l.‘ii|ilii'l'in order to prevent delay, may rule

(vi An action fornuisance to lands by overtiowinagthem with
back-water raised by a dam. is local, and must be tried
in the county where the lnmis lie or the catisc of action
arose. Dwmvm v. -\.'Iu-rw’, 3 Zuh. 201. All action ot'trc.~‘pass
qum-1’ cluu.mntfrr_rn'I,being local. must be laid in the county

in which the [urns in qtm is situated, at the time the iI't‘»\'[)ﬂS'i
isalleged to have been coinmitted. C’/mmpmn v. Dmqplm,-, 3
Jfur. 3. The creation oi’ u in.-w county, including the I-and
trcs|nt~">"etl upon, prior to bringing the suit, but afterthe

trt-~"pn.~'s complained oi’, docs not warrant 1-hztrgin-.; the act
to have been donc in the new county. lb.
‘ll l'r. 351. See Anonymous, 1 Jiur. 393.

J‘ "I.-on v. (,'rrt'ur,
In a suit brought

against a corporation. the venue should be laid in the county
where their )rincipal otﬂce is located. that being considered
their placeo residence ; the rule applies to railroad companies
where their road rttns throuzh and their i'ranchi.-es are exer
cised in different counties. Thorn v. (Ye-nlml I2. R. /.b., '2 Du!-h.
l‘.’.l. Starr Brink v. I{F’dl"ll'Jf.'1‘_fI, 1 Jim‘. 362, Ford, J. Witere a
deputy sheriffof the count_vof A. is sued in the county of B.

for an net done in the course ofhisoilicial duty in the county
oi‘.-\.. the court will, upon affidavitofthis fact, change the
venue from B. to A. Dmrtm ads. l'ln‘1l, ‘.’ lfnl. 200. 'i‘he venue
in an action for damages occasioned by in-gligencc to property,
both real and personal. was erroneously laid in n diiferem.
county from that in which the real property \\'t.s situate. l\'o

defendant to put in hail in twenty da_vs, or sittiut; the court,
and at the sanie tune take a rule to plead. Jfuy/us v. Iftly/res,

steps were taken to compel correction of the error, and the

CU.|'t’ ‘I09.
('1) Alli-r arbitrators have been appointed and met, it is too
late to remove it can:-"e by Imheus corpus A lmlmt-s r.‘u!‘pu.s' is too
late after llIl9I'|()('Illt)l'_\'_]tItlZIll6Ill. Bickhmn v. l)¢'nh_t/, (j'o.r¢~ 11!.
Slim‘)! v. .5'imticlr.<on, L'o.rc -I6. &e Gmnrltcr v. Mmmmulh Iirtnk.
4 Hal. 101.101. If improperly brought a ))7'0f‘l,‘1.ll;’lil1I; will he
-ordered. Sharp v. b'uuu'r-ksun, Co.tc 46. Austin v. Nelson, 1
.Hrtl. 381.

venue was laid. No motion to non-suit. because ofthe errom~
ous venue, was made. Ileld, that the trial Judge was rightin

Cause was carried down for trial to the county in which the

reius|ng' to direct a verdict for defendant, or to withdraw from
the consideration ofthejury the damages to the real estate uud
in subinittingto the jury the whole matter covered by the

issue.

Btttcldord v.Lelw,/h Valley B. R. 00., 24 l'r. 56.

2571

PRACTICE.
value of three thousand dollars; and if the party who shall obtain a rule
for a trial at bar shall not recover to the amount of the said sum, he shall
be entitled to no more costs than if the cause iiad been tried at the circuit

court of the proper county.

230. That an action merely transitory shall, at the discretion of the
court, be tried in the county in which the cause of action arose, or the
plaintifff or defendant reside at the time of instituting such action, or if

In transitory
actions.

Ib., Q 5.

the defendant be not an inhabitant of this state, in the county in which

process shall have been served upon iiiiu. ((L)

231. [Amended by Sec. 329, 1,0.»-1.]
5.

Si-‘.t.‘L7RlTY FOR t‘t)$'l'.~'~.

' 232. [Anieiided by Secs. 332 and 348, post]
233. That in lieu of the bond mentioned in the last preceding section
the plaintifff may deposit the sum named with the clerk of the court in
which the action is pending, to be and remain as security to defendant for

Deposit in lieu of
bond.

costs.

234. That when a defendant is entitled to security for costs, he shall
give notice in writing to the plaintifff that he requires siicii securit_v, and
thereupon all proceedings shall be stayed until sucii security is ﬁled or
deposit made, and the plaintifff upon iiliiig such secui'it_v, or making such
-deposit, shall give notice thereof in writing to the defendant, with the
names and residences of the sureties; and after the service of such notice,
the defendant shall have the same time to plead that he had at the service
of the notice requiring security. (h)
235. 'l'liat the plaintiff may, at the time of ﬁling his bond for costs, file
therewith an affidavit of each surety, that he is a resident of this state, and is

Defendant to
demand security
in writing.

Plaintiff, on ﬁling
security, to give
notice thereof.

Sureties to justify
or be approved
by a judge.

worth two hundred dollars aiter all his debts are paid ; or an approval of the
(a) In actions merely transitor ', the venue may be laid at

the tliscretioii of the plaintifff: I mt. In the county in which
the cause of action arose; second, if the plaintifff resided in

the state when the action was commenced, he may lav the
venue in the county in which he then resided: third, if the

defendant resided in the state when the suit was instituted,
the venue may be laid in the county in which the defendant

then

lived; and fourth, if the defendant shall not be. an

inhabitant of this state, it may be laid in the county in
which
rocess shall have been served upon him.
ll the

ilainti

has laid the venue in one of the places thus des

gnated by law, it cannot, upon the coinnion atlldavlt, be
changed to any other of the specilleti counties, or to any
other county in the state, though under special circumstan
ces the court will change the venue from one to another of
the desigiiated counties.
Brll v. .l{orria Uoml (b., 3 tir. 63.
Au action of debt for an escape is a transitory action, and the
plaiiititf may lay the venue in any county he pleases. Jmim v.
.Pi'mh(r7'!1n|, 2 Hal. 350. An action upon the third section of the
act of February ‘Lilli, 1820 I it. l.., p. ti-ttli, "for restraining the

plaintifff from navigating the waters between the ancient shores
of .\’ew York and New Jersey," is not a local, but a transitory
action. (iibhoiis v. Oodrn, I Ilol. ‘D45. in an action for a tort to
the person, coniniltted in another state, the venue may be laid
in the county Ill which thedefendants were served with process.
A<'krr.~:mi. V. Eric 1-.'oilu.w_t/ (.'o., 2 Vr. 309. \\'hen It is deeliied
necessary or expedient to state where the cause of action
actually arose, andtlie place thus stated is out ot'tlie county iii
which the venue is laid, it is necessary to lay the venue undera
1~i:.lrlire!. In all other cases, the introduction of the tiuhlicrt
in stating the venue is neither iiecessary nor iiscmi. Imyc/.-im-I:
v. (.'lin!un Ins. (‘u., 3 Znh. 279. ln a transitory action, if the

plalntiﬂ‘ reside out of the state, and the venue is not laid in
the county where the cause of action arose, or where the
defeiidzmt resides, the court will on motion, and without
affidavit of defense, change the venue to the county where
the defendant resides.
ll’w-Icy v. .S'riuldrr, 5 Ilul. ‘Iii. Dmirlty
v. 7'11;/lI.n',4 Hal. 96. So, where an appearance was iiidorsed
on the writ, the plaintiff being iioii-resideiit.
.‘llr'.lfmomy v.
ll'i!limnson, 6 Ilul. 316. In an action for breach of a cove
nant of seizin and warranty, the court will not (_'|lllIl£{0 the
venue to the county where the lands lie, withoutau affidavit
stating special circtiinstaiices.
llio-it v. Holnu-.1, 2 1114!. 171.
Court has the power under special circunisiaiices to change
the venue in an action of debt on a bond. .‘!t.flfl'Hnl v. Suriihi,
Cbzre 203. Contra. -S‘/iolwctl v. (‘ho-A-, (‘arc ‘Z05. Venue may be
chaiiiged in ejectment. lh. (b.re'.s Cusr, (brw 205. Pm-rm
v. Jfillr. r, Corr 206. Contra, Druron V. .\.'Iii-riiw, 3 Zoo. '30-4. The
court will order the venue changed, even when laid in the

proper county, if it appears that a fair trial cannot he liad
there, bfnrrml v. N»-in J1 r.-r'_i/ R. R. (.12., 3 Zeb. 63. In order to
warraiit a change of venue, it must appear that a fair trial

cannot be had in the county where it is laid, by positive
-evidence or facts. and not by the mere opinion of the
\\'llllt,*.\'.~&t<'-‘4.
lb.
.\'ot' ll|)()ll their belief.
.tlIr(rlru/n V. -Shrms,
One 203.
Hearsay evidence not sufficient to support a

motion to change the venue.
Dru, 1.0? v. Emu! (hf? ‘JR-1.
in local actions the venue may be cliaiiaed, but it must be
oii clear prool' that an impartial trial cannot otlierwise he had.
lh. When the plaiiitlif is dcsinous of changing the venue he
must move to amend, and a suggestion must beentered on the
record. In. A motion to change the venue on the common
atiidavit, must be before plea filed : ifu special ground is laid,
the venue may be chniiged alter plea pleaded. Wildrs v. ﬁler‘:-rs,
l I-lul. 31). Where a special ground is laid, and circumstances
are brought before the court, by which it is shown that the
defendant may be e.vpo.-ted to iiiiiit-ct.-.-s.iii'y tiiiliculty, or the fair
administration ofjustice be interrupted, the venue may be
changed. after plea pleaded. [Ml v. Jllori-i.-i (‘maul Lb., 3 (Jr. 63.
Venue may be changed aiterlssuejoiiied. H'isIm' v. Juhnson,( ‘ore
‘J60. snoitvlm v. Jo/no-oii, Pm. "469, °47l. tfiiiiiige of venue on
common affidavit, refused. 1i'(n' v. li'IuluIrn', I‘i')|. '5i~i. Hull
ads. (funiberlumt Bunk, 2 South. ‘Tl-‘.i. An nllidavit taken willi

out notice to the adverse party cannot be read in support of a
motion to change the venue.

I60.

}’m'Irrr' v. a§'il.\'.<l'.'lI Bonk, 3 Hot.

A motion to change the venue to ii-i., when the cause of

action did not arise there, was refii.~"-ed, there being no proof that

the witnesses ofeither party resided there.
Soulh. '30.

Ddiu-hy v. 7ii_i/(or, 4 Jlul. 96.

liamson, 8 Hul.3l6.

AI”-mus v. Wood, I
Jllrjllniomy v.

Wil

\Vlicre the defendant was a bank corpora

tion, and the transaction out of which the stilt arose occurred at
the bank, and all the books, &c., oi’ the hank were iiecessary
evidence, and could not be removed without great incon

venience and loss, the venue was cliaiiged to the county where
the bank was situated. Ifrirr V. Bunk of 1t'¢_w Briomt-icIt', 1
South. ‘I363.
-Slulc Bun/c V. ]'Iule-nbn'_1/, 1 Jim". 352.
In
transitory actions, the court will not change the venue on the

ground of lncofiveiiience tipoii any nice balancing of circum
stunces_ of mere accoinniodation to the parties. Over these the
i,e_ga,:_:'ight of the plaintiff must prevail_._ 1)uuur¢sl- v. Jim-ti, 17
1'.

4 .

(h) The demand of residence under section -I, mm", is not, in
contemplation of law, merely ancillary to the demand of
security for costs. There are other purposes which the statute
providing for itwas intended to act-oiiiplisli,and it is ofuse in
other cases than where the plaiiititf isa non-resident. The pur

view of this section, which stays the running of the time to
plead on the service ofa notice requiring security ofa non-resi

dent plaintifff, is not extended to a notice wliicii may, with
equal propriety and efficacy, be served on a resident plaiiitilf.
li'IiiIm'y v. .-‘l!rrcIunit.s‘ Nutiorutl Bonk, ll i’r. -i“.’.. ])eiiiaiid of

security for costs may be made afterohtaiuliiga rule extending
thetiine to plead and if made before issiiejoiiied, it operates as
a stay of proceediiigs.

Obtaining a rule to extend time toplead

is not a waiver ofthe right to demand security for costs. Rom
mrl v. Ki‘:-k, -I N. J. L. J. '..’l6. Our statute authorizing clmimul
for security for costs does not abrogate the coninioii-law rtiie
which allows uppliculiun to the court for security to be niade
in certain cases even alter issue joined. lb. Alter lsstie joined
application may be made to the court upon notice for security
for costs. (‘otle v. li’a'Uiunia, 5 N. J. L. J. 218.

PRACTICE.
sureties indorsed on said bond by a judge of the court in which the action
is pending; in case no such aiiidavit or'approval be ﬁled, the defendant
may, within ten days from service of notice of ﬁling security, give notice
that he excepts to the sureties; in which case the plaintifff shall ﬁle such
aiiidavit, or a new bond with such aﬂidavit of the sureties thereto annexed;
and the defendant shall have the same time to plead after service of notice
of ﬁling such aﬁidavit or new bond, as he had at the service of the notice
of exceptions; any plaintifff‘ may ﬁle such bond and affidavit and give
notice thereof before security is required.

Exceptions to

sureties.

6.
Bill ofparticnlars
to be furnished if
demanded.
P. L 1857, p. 296,
Q 3.
Amended.

Demand to be
complied with in
ﬁfteen days.

PARTICULARS OF DEMAND.

236. That in any action on a record, or on a contract express or implied’
if the defendant shall, before plea ﬁlcd,dcmand in writing 21. bill of par
ticulars of the demand, or a copy of any note, bond, contract, deed, record
or writing on which the declaration is founded, or if in any such action
the plaintiffi‘ shall, before replication ﬁled, demand in writing a bill of par
ticulars of the demand, or a copy of any bond, note, contract, deed, record
or writing on which a pica or notice of set-off is founded, it shall be the
duty of the party, or his attorney, on whom such demand shall be made,
to comply therewith within ﬁfteen days, or in default thereof, besides the
remedies now allowed, such defaulting parties shall, if it be the plaintifff be
barred, in such suit from all claim under such declaration, or, if it be the

Unless further
time is given.

Plaintiff or de
fendant may
annex schedule
to declaration or
plea.

Ib., Q ~i.

Fees for schedule
and recording.
Ib., Q 5.

defendant be barred in such suit from all claim under such plea or notice;
provided, however, that the court or a judge thereof, in vacation, may, upon
good cause shown before or after such default, extend the time for com
plying with such demand. (a)
237. That the plaintifff or defendant may annex to his declaration or
plea a schedule containing such particulars of demand, and copies of such
notes, bonds, contracts, deeds, records, or writings on which the declara
tion, plea or notice is founded, and in such case the adverse party shall
not be at liberty to make the demand aforesaid; but the party so annex
ing the same shall be bound thereby, unless in case of surprise, or for
other good cause, the court shall give relief, which they are hereby cm
powered to do.

238. That the attorney for such schedules, and each copy thereof, shall
be entitled to receive eight cents per folio, and the clerk of the court, for

copying the same in the record, shall receive six cents per folio.

7.
Circuit record
sent down.

CIRCUIT RECORD.

POSTEA AND JUDGMENT.

239. That when an issue in the supreme court is to be tried at a circuit
court. a transcript of the declaration and pleadings in the cause, witha

R. s.19o, Q a.

proper placita, and nothing more, shall be made and sent, under the seal
of the supreme court, to the said circuit court, which shall be a sufficient
warrant or authority for the latter to proceed upon, hear and determine the
(a) Bill of particulars being delivered, no proofis requisite
that notice requiring it was given. Clinton. v. Lyon, A-m. "1036.
.Blli of particulars when required, must bedefivercd befores.
plea. In n charge for money had, it should namethe person of
whom received.

Wnltnu v. Vtlughn Pm. "636. The defendant

has thesame time tu_ plead after receiving the billofparticulats
Lhnt he had at the time ofdemandingit. Anorlyinour, 1 Hm‘.
346. Ifa bill ofparticninrs fully and snbstnnriniiyapprise the
opposite party ofthe matter intended to be given in evidence,
it will be sulliclent, although ll. is not BS minute and speciﬁc as
it might have been, uultnxsit shall appear, by sfﬂdnvit or other

wise, to the satisfaction of the court, that the party has been

bound to furnish his adversary with n copy of any record or

writing which is not the foundation of his suit or claim. .1\lur
you v. Yoml , 4 Vr. 336. it is no variance from the bill of par
ticuinrs ren cred ifthe book of accounts charge to A. B. , aver»
seer ofthe poor. &.c., items which in the bill arc remit-red as
charged to A. B.

Buy v. Cook, 2 Zab. -‘H3.

A bill ofparticnlars

served, forms no part of the record znnzi it is not crrorihni the
name and style 0 the defendant below as set forth in Sillil hill
ofparticulurs, do not entirely COi‘I‘9.<pOlIil with the name given
in the record; especially when such vurinnce has not been
nmigned for error. Slate Street Cluu-ch \'. Gordon, 2 Vr. 264. On
an application fora more specific bill of articuiars, the prin

mlsledor surprised by the bill, orls in great dun er of being
rejudiccd for want ufn better particular. Slolho v. Dunham,
liar. 18l. Tillou v. Jfulcllinsml, 8 Gr. l18. 'l‘he plninllif is

ciple which

overns the courts is, that t is party who avels

only required to furnish the defendant with notice of the par

his pleadings and defenses.

tlculnr subject-nmller, in relation to which the covenant or
ngreement has been broken, and not the items or particular

manner oi’ proof, but only the marten: themselves upon com
peteni. proofof which he proposes to rest his claim. Heppltrd

hactsconstituting such breach and necessary lo beproved on the
trial. Van V001‘-It v. Mor‘1~in Gina! C'u.,-Spen. 2iX). A party is not

v. Litrr and Smith, 12 N. J. L. J. I86.

matters whic he must prove on the trinl,shouiri so far apprise
his opponent concerning them that he can intelligently prepare

The particulars need not be the

PRACTICE.

2573

said cause; and the plaintifff or defendant, or both, may have such tran
script of the said proceedings, if required. (a)

249. That the justice before wiiom such circuit court shall be held shall P°*"@M°b°
return the said transcript, with the verdict and other proceedings before returned.
Ib., Q 13.
him had upon it, to the supreme court at the next term, and the said
supreme court shall receive and ﬁle the same, and give judgment thereon
according to law. (b)
Z41. That in actions in the supreme court, whenever a cognovit or Judgmenton
relicta is given, or a verdict is obtained at the circuit, the party obtaining P°°“-‘"»"-‘"°"*
&c., by order of
the same may, by order of the justice at the circuit, on two days’ notice, Judge
at circuit.
and upon such terms as he may impose, ﬁle the circuit record and postea, p_ L 1g,=,,5_p_-1.99,

l

and enter judgment, and issue execution thereon forthwith, after the mak@89

ing of such order; btit in case a rule nisi fora new trial shall be granted,
the proceedings on such judgment and execution shall be stayed until the
determination of the same, and the court in batik may in all cases, in its
discretion, stay said execution.

“ 1857, p. 298, Q8.

8.

BILLS OF EXCEPTIONS AND RULES TO SHOW CAUSec.

242. That when an 3' )€l'SOll, im ileaded before an )' court i in an .3' cause B"1=°f°I°@P"°"8
where a writ of error lies to a higher court, shall allege an exception, pray to be sealed.
R. S. 980.
iug that the court will allow it, if he who alleged the exception instantly
writes the same, and requires that the judge or judges of the said court
shall put thereto his or their seal or seals in testimony thereof, such judge
or judges, or the greater part oftliein present,sliall so do; and if such higher
court, upon the cause being removed before them, do not [ind the same
exception iii the record, and the plaintifff show the exception, written and
sealed as aforesaid, the said higher court shall proceed to judgment accord
ing to the same exception, as it ought to be allowed or disallowed. (c) [See
Sec. 333,p0st.]

243. [Amended by Sec. 334, posh]
(n) The lTt\ll.'l('fl|tl, when oiiee sealed and eertitled by the
clerk, tieed hot iii onlliiary CII..‘4t'.'t be altered iii date or resettled,
though the trial doe:-t not take plat-e at the tinst circuit alter the
tnm.-tcript is made out and certiﬁed; but the saute certilicate
will atiswer for the trial of the ('tlllM' at aiiy fiitiire term. Ihn,
-ll:r‘l.'l4’ wt.-t. Ilmihunt,-'> Ilul. l-"to. 'l'lie clerk iiiiiy permit the
aittoriiey to make out tt lftiltt4('fl|ll oi‘ the pleatliiign iii ll cause,
and aitix the slgtiatiire ofthe clerk tuid the seal ofthis court to
the certilicate reqiiired by law, wlieii,i|i l'act,i-utcli pleadiiittn
are on file. (imlicrll V. I-Jmll, Spni. ;t'.'tt. It tlot-it hot coti.~ititiite
a variance, that the circuit n-cortl ditl'er.'4 froiii a copy of the
declaration furiiislied tit-l'eiitlaiit by plaiiitiifs attorney; lit

2~ltt)ttltl obtain ti copy from the files of the court, made by the
clerk. I)’:/(Int, v. (mm/,,i.~ 2 ma//i. °5ltl, '.'>'l‘.!.
(hi The right to aiiieiitl a pout-a l.-t tiiupii-stttiiiafile. It may he
corrected by the judge‘! |iote.~., or by eiitrie.-i or tiietiiorttiitla of
the clerk oft he circuit, orhy other evitleiice. I"!-1 _(/usmt ails. A‘/uh .
2 l’: . ‘bit. Au application to aiiieutl a posit-a tdiould be matte to
the trial jiidige, and the court in hum-. i-thoiild hot eiiiertalii such
a Ilitittult unless the matter iii referred tothecoiirt. by thejudge
Pan I8 \'. l"~_um-I_i/, ﬁt Vi. M6. Wlien an application la made to
aiiieii-t a |m.~ztett, on the ground that it does iiot correctly state
the verdict at-tiially delivered by the jury iii open couri,ihe
testimony oi‘ the jtlt'Ut\ ts llllttll.‘&\'ll)l(.' to show what verdict they
did deliver. II».

(07) The tie--t-.;ii oi‘ the stattite was to provide ti mode for ex
aiiiiiiiiig errors \\'lttt‘lt could iiot properly be Inserted lii the
I'[*('tt|‘l|, uiid allowra ati ext-eptloit w herevera pttrtyis liiipletttled.
not liniltiiig it.-appla'tttiou to trial.-4. I-‘m-it v. l'nII.t,l Ilul. 38:‘-4,
-'lti'.!
.\ti exception may be lakeii to the opliiioii oi’ the court. oii
the siitt'ica-hey of tt||jt‘t'Ilt|ll_'4 to aii award of arhitratons.
lh.
.~\ t-li.tlleu~_;-- to the array was made. and oii being overniled.

at hill of t'SCt'|tllt)lt'4 mu taken. and carried before the governor
and cuiiticil. by whom it wiuideteriiiiued. Ammt/nmuv, cited by

l\'m.v_u, I‘. J.

II». 'l‘hat a verdict it-ilargertliau ltoutzht to have

tn-eii, l.~2 not the \tllt_|t't'l ofa hill of exceptimta.

4Zoh. >-|'.'.i~l7.

Apymr v. Ilolrr,

|tl .\I‘lllPltlt:'lll case-s.uo hill of exceptions lies

to the I)rlN't‘0'llllII.{.'4 oi‘ the quarter sessions. Newton ltlls. (Hon
l'l.\.II!, I Ho/. lit}. .-\ hill ol‘ exce itloiiseaii only be taken iii a
case where a wt'it of error lies.
ll'll|ttttIl be takeii iii ll§Ul\'t'Ill
raw.-s.
I'M" ll'tt_mnnori' \'. (tr-. I Imlrh. lt|7. I\'u\Imt \'. Mm In‘, I
/Iufrh I7-l. titi. I-Zrrors tmsigtit-tl on the adini.~i.~tioii ofiesttiiioii_v
4-aii only be pi'e_~eiiied oli it bill of t-.\tt'eptiuii.~t. Jolinsmi \'. Slolr,
2 I)"/I‘/I, ;tl l. The office ofa hill oi‘ exceptioiitii is not to tt.\.\lL{ll
errors. tail to certify ttiitl iiiiike part of the rt-cortl the |)I't't‘l\t'
acts or oiiiissioiis eouiplaiiied of. It is not a |ilt‘lltlltlt.{ of the

party, but the return oftliejiidtze ofhis (|P(‘l\lti|t~& made tipoii
the trial. and its siilllcit‘-tit:y is iiot to be tried by the rules retgii
latiiig the |ileatlim.;~ ofthe |Ittrtie.~4. .-I '¢RIK‘l(llt' .1, in-., v. l)om.<mi_
5 lmh-Ii. -ll-3. -H7. A bill oi‘ excepiioiis is a stale--iiii-til of the
poiiit oii which the court below gave aii opiiiioii. (‘ore \'. l~'n~ltl,
1 Hr. 215, ‘Zia. Refiisul ofthe l-ourt to grunt u. new trial is iiot. a

proper matter tor a bill ol'ext-eptioii.-i. I"m'num v. .tpp!ryreIr. 3
Zim. 1*, 33. lti an action for tlt\lltttt.{t'.'4, ll‘ the court retli.-te to iioii
taiit, where the plaiiitllfsliow-.~, without coiitrutlietioii. a want of

onltuary care oti his part. the cleft-iitliiiit is entitled to a hill oi‘
e.itt-eptitiiit-i. (.Ynh'nl It’. R. Cb. \'. Jloore, 4 Zttb. $2-I. Tlte BCL
tlirectltig bills of exceptlolis to he settled. is Hltltﬁltlllllttlly
the same as the statute oi‘ \\'es-itoti, 2 tin". 3|. and though
.‘4llt'lll iii regard to the iullueiice the bill is to have oti the
Nlll|.\|'t|ltt'lll pI‘U|.{I'L'$'L'i of the t-aiiw lll the court below, yet

it iiiitiilfestly coiitemplaie.~i ti. l‘t*\'lt'W

of the iiiattem cou

taiia-tl lll the hill. only iii a hiigher court. Mmm v. li'Iew1',
2 Hr, 195. See Bellini V lhhlxnt, 1 Ilul. 76, Th. A (lt'(.‘lSl0Il
of the court overruling lrielevaiit testimony is not it sub

ject for a bill of exct-ptioti.~l.
'32-5. ‘3‘Z$'t.
t*.\('t'pllt)ll

The practice has
being taken atitl

In-mitt V. Illltflslflll, lSmilIt.
been for the judge on the
a minute theieof made, to

grunt time for the prepaiattoii of tl foriiial hill oi‘ excep
tions, and if the bill he picseiited wltluii it rea.~.oiiable
time, to attix his seal to it; when this is done. It relates
buck as it the bill was sealed at the trial.
7 l'r. 6;’.
Bills of exception should be

sealed iiiiniediately, tluriiit; the

.s'/air \'. Ilolmni,
prepared
and

progress of the trial. If

that is not done, the court will be warranted lu treating the ex
ceptiona as iiugatory.
I)‘lNI|P”y v. -Shilw, 2 lmlr-Ii. -It’-5. 8111/0! v.
Ilnlﬂlrg, 7 Vi". 62. /l_umt0 \'. (fumpbrll. 2 Ilttr. 2‘Jl. i\'o hill can he
ui'ter\\arti.~i sealed without the iiititiialcouseiit ofthe attorneys,
or Illllt*.\'4l'i€lllt*(| by tlicjiitltzes who tried the cause, iii |)llt'.\lHttt(‘U
ofaii agreement made at the trial, lii open court. to that eltect.
/|_!/ItflU\’ (ttmpInIl,2 Ilm 291. The case of /I1/mm \'. (‘umpln/1'3
Atlmmixli-rtlor'.t,2 Hui". 2‘Jl. exaiiiiiietl atitl approvetl.
ll'il.s-on
ads. Momr, -I Hm. It-6.
Where the judge who tried the

cause rt-i‘iis-es to seal the bill oi‘ exceptions. the court sitting
lii error caiiiiot t-oiiipel liiiii to do so. Ih. But wlicre the
common pleas refuse to hear rt-ml an alliilavit of one of

the referees, on I motion to set aside the report,the supreme
court L'l'lll|lt'(l it rule to show ('tlll\'t-' why a mumliimu; 3||(i|||(|
iiot l-.~iie to compel the eomiiiou pleas to seal a bill of
exceptioiis taken to .\tll(.‘ll refusal
z|nlm_l/Inntu‘, I’ru. ‘I364. The
court otcoiiimou pleas oti the trial oi‘ an appeal tum iio author.
ity to .'~ettl a hill oi‘ exceptioiis. Jllmrr v. Hamilton. 4 Zuh. 532.
Rnslon \"_ .tImris,l [)nIrh_ I73.
I'm: ll'nm;mirr V. Ct'|(r,| Dim-/|_

Ill?

1'/-ii/.w" \'. I"uI.v, Hm. ‘Z153.

Jfurlut V. Tlmntpsmi, 5 Ilul,

l-l'.’. lhit see Ibmul \'. l.Imy.shwI,I Svmlli. '32-5.
Il'ilImms v.
.5‘/ommi-cl, I Hr. 70. l'poii |ii-ooftliat the bill oi‘ exceptions has
been improperly or ll'lt'L{lllttI'l)’ .\l2Itt*tl. the cotirt hi error may
tll.~i|lll.\!-t tlie catlse from the tecortl. Amu-‘:0 \'. Cmnphrll, 2 Hm‘.
29!, '.".L3 Slnlr \'. lInInu.s.7 l'r. ti'.'. 64. ll'ilsrm tttlﬁi. ﬂlnore, -I Hm-,

I86.

Judguieiit of I't’\'t'tNll on writ oi‘ error will not be given

where no record is returned with the writ, or where the bill of

exceptions, on which error-i are tL\\'l|.{t|t>t|, is not sigiietl by the
judge below. I.uIr.~r V. .~lIpuu_I/Ii. 3 Ztth. .lt'>-5.
is atueiitluble. I/ﬂerls \'. Sl<m.~, Z) Vr. 26.

A bill of exceptions

PRACTICE.

2574

244. That a bill of exceptions shall contain only so much of the evidence
as may he necessary to present the questions of law upon which exceptions

“'hat bill of
exceptions to
contain.

were taken at the trial; and it shall be the duty of thejudge, upon the

settlement of the hill, to strike out of the same all the evidence and other
matters which shall not have been necessarily inserted. (fl)
To be returned
and ﬁled with
writ of error.

245. That every bill of exceptions shall he returned and ﬁled with the
writ of error and record in the case; and uiiiess so returned and ﬁled, the

judgment shall not he reversed, nor shall there be any assignment of error,
l'or any matter contained therein. (Ii)

246. That where the party holding a bill or bills of exceptions applies

Obtaining rule to
show cause, a
waiver of excep
tions except on
points reserved in
rule.

for a rule to show cause why a new trial should not be granted, the grant
ing thereof shall be a waiver of all bills of exceptions, except on points
expressly reserved in said rule; a rule to show cause why a new trial
should not he granted, may, in the discretion of the court, be special, and
then the case shall he heard and decided on tiic grounds upon which the
rule was allowed. (0)
9. CASE CERTIFIED.

Z47. That the judge holding an_v circuit court, may at his discretion, and

Judge at circuit

may certily case
to supreme court.
R. S. 200, £5.

Clerk to file cer
tiﬁcate and enter
rule.

upon such terms as he may think reasonable, direct any case of doubt or
diﬂiculty to he made and stated, and certified by him to be argued at the
bar of the supreme court; which court shall hear the same. and after
opinion given therein, shall certify the same to the said circuit court, which
court shall render judgment therein in conibrinity to such opinion. (d)
248. That whenever a case is certiﬁed from any circuit court for the
advisorj' opinion of the supreme court, the clerk shall ﬁle the certiﬁcate,

enter a rule as of course, setting the cause down for argument, and place
the same on the paper, giving it priofit_v according to the date of tiling the
certiﬁcate. (e)

249. That where judgment shall be reiidei'ed by any circuit court, in

Error may be
assigned on cer

tiﬁed opinion.

coiil'ofmit_v to the certiﬁed opinion of the supreme court, upon a case certi

P. L. 1855, p. ‘Z88.
Q 86.

ﬁed, aiid a writ of error shall be brought to reverse such judgment, such

(ti) A hill ofexcept ions should state specifically the grounds
f“ll?gl‘('(l. and should apprise the
precise objections intended

courlzjeatitlprimtg
Ofo
to be made.

Domirll

v. Srulc, 2 Dulrh. -Iii‘).

Associtclﬂs. &c., V.

facts
uponon
which
the of
objection
ll(_))“l€'\:?(;l;(*“fl?(‘9DlgT‘;!{lll‘llll.it-‘(l,The
iniist
tlpipear
the bill
excep

umma
even

is not
silliscient
that the
is silent,
rlun‘;'l\l'(:N¥i: ofit the
facts
necessary
to bill
legalize
the.

wlieie

evidence objected to. Morrin v. 6'rv"rii.l Zuh. -562. A bill of
exceptions, foiiiiili-d on the renisal oi‘ a jiidge to charge a.

lntothe billofexceptlons. Di-iscoltv. Girlin,2l i'r.‘.’$. Intlie
absence ofa hill of exceptions, error cannot he assigned upon
matter which such bill should contain, neither can the judg

ment below be reversed.

Riilibiiis v. V(lIt(lt7'O€C/t‘, '25 Vr. 36-l.

bee Cbhrn V. Gui-Inn‘, 23 Vr. ill.
(cl Where a party who has obtained bills of exceptions applies

for a rule to show cause why a new trial shoiiid not be ordered
oti the points contained in said hills, 0|’ any of them. it will be
made a condition of granting the rule that. he abandon all his
hills of exception. Mrek-nr v. Bi/yloii,3 I)“/¢-h.26'l. Almoi v.

speciﬁed proposition, IIlil.'~i. show eitlii-rihat there was a

Hlover,2 Hr. l9.S.

Opdm v. f4iI»bmis.2~5'M¢!li. '6-53.

If the appli

refilsai to chartre iipou the point at ali,0r what the chartte

cation is solely on points which cannot be raised on a writ oi’

upon such point _wii.s. If/rs ads. Sliilr, 6 Vi‘. 64. The bill
ninst show that the precise point of which a review is

error. the bills of exceptions need not-be abandoned; but in
that case the rule will be special, so as to conﬁne the argument

sought was ini-file by the couiisel,presented to the mind of

to the grounds upon which the rule lias been allowed. lli. ll’
thcjiidge errs in ruling that certain evidence is admissible, and
a bill o exceptions is thereupon prayed and sealed, but no evi

the court. and decided before the bill was scaled. 1|88TI('f(l'I.\’,
it-c.. v. DH!-'l.s'lnl. 5 him-Ii. -ll5. Even if the trial was held
before a special term of the court of oyer and teriniiier, it
is not iiccessary that the evldi-iice set forth in the bill of
exceptions should show that the special term was rightly
called: this will be presumed to have been proved, iifiless
an exception he tiilti-ii spi-ciiically to the liisiiiiiciency oi’

such proof. Such piirts of the evidence only should be piit
in a bill of e.\ceptloiis. as is lit-.‘(‘t'.\S3I‘)' for the matter
excepted to.
Hril.3'i'0_ 373.

l)iirl_I1¢‘ v. Slrilr. 4 Zllll. -156. bee Budd v. Ci-cu, 1
.-\ paper purporting to be a bill of exceptions.

sealed by the common pleas, is iioiliiiig more than a volun
tary return ol' a suite of facts, iiiadc by the court without,
any legal

a.ntliorit_\'. by

which

the

adverse

party is not

bound. and beilig objected to cannot be received.
}!miii'Ilnn,4 Ziib. F»l'.'..

ﬂfom-e v.

A stateini-iit". niade by the jiiiige, and

accompanying the bills oi‘ i-.<ci-piloii win.-_ b_v iigi-eeiiieiit. of
the parties, coii.'~'ideri-ii as ii bill oi exception mlilioiis v. ()1/ilr-ii,
2 .8‘/in/Ii. '8-‘>3, 'i-1'»-l. l<2xceptions to the cliarge ofajiiilge slioiild

specify what is il|lP.'.ll‘ii to bei-rroiieoiis. and ii l.{('iN‘l‘lli exceplioii
to the whole charge is i|‘l'l'i._{lliill'.Hiltl iniiy bedisregardi-ii by the
appellate court.
Oliver v. l'IuI;i<, l Zoo. 597. S. ('__ .s',>m. I50.
As\nci'iilr.c, 4-I-_, v. l)¢ii~i'.o,,|_ 5 /iii/rli. 4|-').4l.~l. A bill ofexcepiioiis
must distinctly state and spi-city earli e.\i-eption, so as to show
that the inind of the trial judge was |ifll'll(‘lillll'l_\' called to each

several objectloii. Ptic/trird v. B(’l'[]f!t .\'u..-L" ltiiilway (.11., 2-3 Vi".

dence is HiIt_'|'\\'lll‘d!~l given in consequence of such decision. the
bill of exceptions ought to be given up.

lhinlmg ads. AImi,3

Jfiir. 299. A consent. to the rel'ei'eiice of an accoiiut by the
court, under sections 20l and 25;’. of the practice act, orasiib
niissioii to 8I'iliil‘1lli0ll,l8 not an abandonment of exceptions.
when the parties have eitpiessed aditferent purpose by enter
ing their dissent.

483.

PtiiiIi'.\-mi ails. Iiiilsag/,8

Vi". ‘Z05.

S. (,'__9 I’;-,

\\'ht-re bills oi’ exceptloiis have been fraudiilciitly obtaiiieil,

or sealed irregularly. lniprovidently or in clear violiitioii of a
plain rule of law, the court. to which the writ of error lias been

returned, will quash them.

ll'ilxoii ads. ,-lloorw, 4 llur. I86.

\\-‘nether a rule to show cause why a ll(-.'\\' trial be grained is
general or special, the nii-re gratitiiiir of it. on the application
of the party who holds hills of exception, tipe|"ate!~.' as ii waiver
of all exceptions save those which are (‘.\|)l'L'&'sl_\' reserved in
the rule to show cause. I~‘mIr_i/ v. }‘{HIH”(’_l/, 2| t'r_ 503.

id) The siipreinc court ciiiiiiot; e.'<|iri-~.~ an advisory opinion,
except in cases fiilling within the operation of this st-c[i0||_ and
a justice of the siiprenic court. siiiini: iiifiler the act reuiilatiiig
elections, tlpproveti May '.’.\iii. Ifstll, to tieciili-_ iii kl. siimniiiry
way. upon the l'aii'iir-ss and lo--:_.,'.'~\lli_\‘ oi’ ct-itain elections, cannot
call upon the siipreine court for its advisoryopinion touching

any niiitter arising in the course of such |ll‘t)(‘('t‘tliIlgN_ In re
,'i,4II'_I)lll'HIll, 26 l'i'. I2. The circuit coiirl niiist settle all disputed
facts before it can send siicli case to the siipreiiiecotirt as one

~§

(0) Afterjolnderln crrorit is too late to obit-ct that bills of

exceptions ri-giiliii'l_v obtained were not aiiiiexeii toaiid returned
wilii the writ. (‘my v. I-'i-nliolilrrvii/‘N/“iii I oi, l5 Vi‘. -I-15. An
assignnieiit ofllie cominoii errors i'ei'er.~i only to what is techni

cally known as the ri-corii.aiiil not to a bill of excmitloiis: and
upon such an assignment the court cannot be required to look

oi doubt and dilili-iilty. l)r'.\!rfiiIlu v. (tilmidi irI(o_ 33 |',-_ .|.~3_
("l \\'lieii ii inotion for a new trial ls (‘t'fiiﬁt_'(l by the circuit

court to the supreme court for its advisoryopinion, errorsin
siicli advisory opinion caiiiiot be assigiieti on erior in the court
ol'et'rors. 1)., L. J: W. It’. R. C0. V. 4\'c.t-rile, 22 Vi".

2575

PRACTICE.
certiﬁed opinion shall be returned with the writ of error as part of the
record, and errors may be assigned thereon ; and if error be found therein,
thejudgment may be reversed therefore.

10. STENOGRAPHK‘

REPORTER.

250. That the judge of the circuit court in the several counties of this
state, whenever in his discretion it shall seem proper, may employ a com
petent stenographic reporter, whose duty it shall be to attend all trials in
said circuit court and in the court ofoyer and terminer, and exactly and
truly take notes and record verbatim all the evidence and proceedings
under the direction of said judge, except the arguments of counsel upon

Stenographic
reporter may be

employed.
P. L. 1871, p. 92.

such trials, and when requested, make and furnish true reports thereof to

the judge, and to each party in such cause.
251. That the compensation of such reporter shall not exceed ten dollars
per day, which sum shall be paid by the board of chosen freeholders of
said county, on certiﬁcate of said judge as to the number of days upon
which he shall be employed; providetl, that said reporter shall, for reports
of evidence and other proceedings by him furnished, be paid by the party
in such cause requesting the same, at the rate not to exceed ten cents for
one hundred words ; provided, further, that said reports shall be furnished
within one day after request is made; provided, also, that said reporter
shall be duly sworn in open court, faithfully to perform all the duties
required by this act; and such reporter shall be removable, and other
appointments made from time to time by the judge of said court at his
discretion. (a)
252. That towards defraying the expense of the county under this act, a
fee ofone dollar shall be paid to the clerk of said county, by the party
noticing any trial in the circuit court. at every term the same shall be
noticed, which fee shall be included in the taxed bill of costs, and be
recoverable as other costs in said suit, and the clerk of such county shall
pay such fees at the end ofevery term to the county collector of said

Oompensation,

how paid.

Provisos.

Fees lo be paid.

county.

[Ail special acts authorizing appointment of stenographic reporters in
particular counties were repealed by this act.]

ll. suns av COMMON mroansas.

253. That upon every action or information, which shall be instituted
or exhibited by any informer on a penal statute, a special note shall be
made of the very day, month, and year of its institution or exhibition, and
such action or information shall be of record from that time and not
before; and further, that no manner of antedating thereof shall be made
or allowed. (b)

254. That upon every process which may be sued out in such action or
information to compel the appearance of the defendant, shall be indorsed
the name of the party who prosecutes, and the title of the statute upon

Time of
commencing

tuition noted.
R. S. 919, Q14.

Name of prose
cutor and title of
statute to be in
dorsed on process.
Ib., Q2.

(a) The certiﬁcate of thejutige is conclusive as to the amount
due the stenographer for services rendered in pursuance ofthis
and the precedingsection. U on the resentat on ofthejudge’s
certiﬁcate, it. is the dut of t e boa of freeholders to pn the
IIDOUIII so certiﬁed.
'1u‘11hl v. F»-eeIwtder:q!0cenn, I9 r. 70.
It is the duty oi‘ the board of freeholders to pay the stenographer
for a copy of the evidence and roceedings in the trial of an
indictment when it lsceriiiied by l ejudge,ala rate not exceed
ing ten cents per folio, and also for the services rendered by the
stenographer to the prosecutor and his associate in preparing
the caseof the state. lb. S. (1.20 l'r. -I85.
(0) In an action by a common informer to recover a. penalty,
the justice must make aspeclal note I n his docket ofthe day,
month and year oi’ its institu tion. Ackerson v. Zu0rIskle,2 Hal.
167. Merely statin the time of the commencement ofthe action,

slate." lb. This note should be made at the time or on
the day of the commencement oi’ the suit; and if the jus
tice omits lo make the entry until the return of the sum

and theanionnlo the penalty, wilhoutslating what the penalty

the day of issue, is insuﬂlcient. lb. An indotsement on the
summons referring to the act of March 8th, 1877, and not to the
Amended act of May lat, 1894, is insuiiicieni. Jb.

was for, or on whatstatuteltaccrued, is not sufiicleut. J0. What
is an insn ﬂlcienl state ofdemand lo recover a penal ly under the
“Act regulating traveling on public and turnpike roads in this

mons, thejutigment will be reversed.

(:1-with v.

in-.<r, .5 llul.

301. Although it would becouvenient and proper to make the
entry more special, yet. where the nature oi‘ the nclion appears
from the subsequent proceedings, and the act is in terms com
piled with, ills sufficient. Dalm v. Hnulry, 1’m.°973. In a
qm tam action the note of the commencement ofthe action and
the indorsenreut of the summons are necessary to give the
court

urlsdiclion, and a motion to set aside the process as

defect ve in this respect. may be made even alier an appear
ance for the purpose ofa collateral motion. Cbrliex v. The
('. G. Iilaycr Ice xilm-him» (b., l7 JV. J. L. J. '.L\‘>. An entry in the
clerk's docket, giving the return day oi‘ the summons and not

2576

Defendant may
plead the general
issue, tic.
Ib., Q 3.

Recovery by
oovin no bar, &c.
Ib., Q 4.
In what cases
prosecutor liable

for a proportion
of the penalty.
Ib., Q 5.

PRACTICE.
which the said action or information is founded; (a) and any clerk, issuing
process contrary to this provision, shall forfeit to the party against whom
such process is awarded ten dollars for every offense, to be recovered by
action of debt, with costs, in any court having cognizance of that sum.
255. That if any action or information shall be brought or exhibited for
an offense against any penal law, made or to be made, the defendant in
such action or information may plead the general issue, that he is not
guilty, or that he oweth nothing, and give in evidence any special matter
which, if pleaded, would be a bar to the said action or information,
giving notice, with the same plea, of the matter so intended to be given in
evidence.
256. That no recovery, by verdict or otherwise, obtained by covin or
collusion in an action popular, shall be a bar to any other action prose
cuted in good faith.

257. That if any prosecutor of an action or information, for the recovery
of any penalty not wholly appropriated to the use of such prosecutor, shall
compound with the defendant, or direct such action or information to be
discontinued, unless it be by leave of the court in which the said action
or information shall be pending, then such prosecutor shall be liable for
so much of the penalty to the state of New Jersey, or any other person
than the prosecutor, as the said state or such other person would have
been entitled to, if the defendant had been convicted.

When prosecutor

258. That every infortner or prosecutor on a penal statute shall pay

to pay costs.
1'b., Q 6.

costs to the defendant, if he discontinue or be non-suit, or if a verdict or

judgment pass against him, for which costs the said defendant shall have
execution against the goods, chattels, and person of such informer or
prosecutor.
Preceding
sections not to
apply to certain

persons.
Ib., I 1.

259. That nothing in the last six preceding sections shall apply to any
certain person, body politic or corporate, to whom or to whose use any for
feiture, penalty or suit is or shall be specially limited or granted by any
statute, but that every such certain person, body politic or corporate, may
in such case sue, prosecute, or inform, as he or they might have done if
this act had not been made.
12. EXCEPTIONS TO JUDGES.

Who shall not
sit in Judgment
upon the trial of
a cause.
R. S. M, gt.

Proviso.

260. That no justice or judge of any court of record in this state, who
shall be related in the third degree to either of the parties in any cause
pending in such court, or be interested in the event of such cause, or shall
have been attorney on record or counsel for either party in any such cause,
or shall have given his opinion upon the matter in question in any such
cause, shall sit in judgment upon the trial or argument of any point in
controversy in any such cause; and the degrees of kindred, in such case,
shall be calculated according to the common-law manner of computation;
provided nevertheless, that any matter or thing herein contained shall not be
construed to prevent any justice or judge from sitting on the trial or argu
ment of any point in controversy in such cause, merely because he may
have given his opinion in any other cause where the same matter in con
troversy shall have come in question, nor from his having given his opinion
on any question in controversy in the same cause, in the course of the
previous proceedings therein. (b)
(nl The title of the statute ‘and the name of the prosecutor
must be indorsed on the tvrlt. Millrr v. Shnﬁll. 2 §'m:Ih. '476 ((1).
' Olivrr \'. l/|1'zulrn',2.5'vm/Ii. ‘M3. On an infortnullon for pro
fhnlty the title of the statute on which the complaint is made.
or the name oi‘ the prosecutor. need not he indorsed on the pro

cess. Julm-tun v. Rwrlu;/.1 Hm-. 1.

1-Jrrur In not ludorsing the

sumumus in l\ penal ﬂL‘ll<|lI its required by this section. is amt-|'e
irregularity and does not deprive njustice oftlw peace of juris
diction. lllrurnlrm v. lint I)m-nt. ti .\’. J. L. J. -‘H0. The omis
sion is an irregularity, which. ll‘ properly objected I0, would
defeat ll'I9])I‘O(‘(§‘i, but which does not. in the absence of nhjt-c

tinn, deprive thcjuslirc ol'tht- right to prom-ed. lb. Sec Il’|l
lium.wm \'. Jf/'rl1lIr.tr r Gunman Plum. I3 l'r. 359.
rm It ls good grmlltd ui'cltallP|tge to a Justice that he had
married l\ sister of the plnlutl|i"s wife. nnd that tht-jltstlt-e‘a
wife was det-cased, leu\'ln:.' issue.
limnoy v. tv'it'm.~t, 3 Zuh.
2)l. 202. If one of the justices making an order of ﬁllation,

is I. cousin of the mother. the pmceedlnas \\'l|l he quashed.
Slnlr, Sloll v. Grlriu, 9

1'1‘. 200. When the legislature pru

vldes for the exercise ofjudiclal ﬂillL'llﬁII.'4 it cannot change
their essential nature, and authorize a juu ment in Violation
of the maxim that no
rson can be a uruze in hL~:.owu
cause. That maxim is ounded in natura jlI.'~tlC9 and mn
dnmental inw. and is inherent in, and a part or the nature
ofjudlciai action. Stair, ll‘imm| v. lfravgforrl, 7 i'r. 394. See
Srhmdrr v. E/H61‘-I. 2 Vr. 44. The B-'<$(‘!\!IIN2|Il. in this case was

set aside. because three of the commissioners who made It
were owners ufthe land to be assessed, and than-fore judges lu

their own cases. I0.

Slate, Klngslnnd v. I'nIrm. 8 V1’. ‘Z53

\\'here n netv lriitl tvasordered, the (‘l‘l|Pf]l1.'ill(_‘P, whodlssented,
was held Incompetent to nit at the new tvinl at the circuit be
cause ol'l|nvingcxpreascd an opinion. I): u, Smrllkon v. Allen.
Ihi. '35, ‘51. ll/11!‘. In the supreme court, on a motion fora in-W

lflﬂl. a challenge toajudge because he had tried tin-cause below

_

PRACTICE.

2577

' 261. That no justice or judge of any court of record in this state, who W:1t(::ddsf:*
shall be related in the third degree, as aforesaid, to either of the parties tn zfﬂlgngajua

any cause pending in sttch cottrt, or shall be interested in the event of any

1b., Q2.

such eattse, or shall have given his opinion in either of the said relations

upon the matter in question in said cause, shall nominate or strike the
jury in any such cause.
262. That all challenges to a justice or judge, for the causes aforesaid,

Challenges, when

shall be made previous to the trial or argument, and the court may try
such challenges, or appoint three indiiferent persons triors for that purpose,
at the discretion of the cottrt, and that the ﬁnding of a majority of such
triors shall he received as the determination of such triors. (a)

to be made and
how tried.

263. That no judge of any court in this state shall act as clerk 'of the

Judge of court

court of which he is a judge, nor as attorney-at-law or counselor tn any

not to act in
certain oﬂices.

court in this state, unless otherwise specially provided by act of the

legislature. (1)

1b., Q 3.

1b., Q 4.

[See Sec. 3ll,p0s!.]

264. That nojttstice or jttdge of any court of record in the state shall be
disqualiﬁed from sitting in judgment upon the trial or argument of any
cattse, or of any point in controversy in any cause pending in such cottrt,

Judge not
disqualiﬁed by

wherein the board of chosen freeholders of any county, or the inhabitants
of any township or city, are or may be parties to the record, or otherwise
interested, because such justice or judge is an inhabitant oi‘ such county,
township or city, or liable to be taxed within the same. (b)

P. L. 1849, p. 129.

reason of interest
as taxpayer.

XVI. Costs.

265. That if the plaintifff in any action, real, personal or mixed, shall
by verdict or otherwise, recover debt or damages in such action, he shall
have judgment to recover his costs against the defendant, to be taxed tn

When plaintlﬂ
shall recover
costs.
R. S. 449. Q 1.

the manner prescribed by law, which shall be levied and collected by

execution, together with the debt or damages aforesaid. (0)

266. That in any action wherein the plaintifff, on a judgment in his favor,
would be entitled to recover costs, the defendant, if the plaintifff shall be non

prossed or non-sttited, or a verdict shall be rendered for the defendant, shall
was overruled. Dru, l'ivur.wn v. Hopkins, Pm. °l95. The Jud es
who concurred in thejudgment below are excluded from sitt ng
on the revlew,in the court of errors and appeals, althou h
tberehad been noargumeut below, and no formal opinlont e
lh'Q|-gd_ (iunlru 1' \'. SIUII, I Zlh. 557. Blllihli-i (100! flu! 0XCltl(l8
them from voting or expressing opinions on preliminary and

collateral motions.

The exclusion only applies to the heartn

of the ctm-~'. 1'11-nl" v. Crmnlin, l Zoo. 561. A law is unconst tutional which provides that nojudgment of the supretne court
shall be rt-versed by the court of erront unless a majority of
-those niembets of the court who are competent to sitou the
heariug and decision of the case shall concur in such reversal.
Cmpp v. I-.'l_i/_ 3 I)”/rh. o'_"2. A jtldge is not incompetent to
appoint (‘1illl|Ill\.~'tlnilt'|?4 to review the damages on lnylugout a
road be-can-e he has once iwclt a mentbcr of the town comtuit
-tee; nor iwc.tt|.~t.- he \\ as once employ:-d as surveyor by the

opponent.-t ofthe road ; nor becan~t- he lots ex pn-ssetian opinion
that the road was tlttttecessttry; llli‘\t* are matters tlttcottuccted
with the question ofthe dautages sustained. .R!’Il|.”IlyIl)It v.
Dillry, 4 Zuh. ‘Z09.

- (II) Form of challenge and trial. Dru, Pearson V. Hopi-ins,
Hm. ‘I95. mt a challenge toa jttsliccui' the peace three trit-is
were appointed. Their tlt'li'TllliIlltilHII oi‘ facts was held to be
00nClu.~ive, utult-r the statute. [M171 V. Jllohunil. 9 l'r. 104. A
challenge to a justice for relatiouship,must show how hels
related, and to whotn. .S'1n-nwnt v. Slilvs, Rm. ‘H0.
(h) See -Vrrtrrr of .-iI_frwl R. l!m'rou'.<, 3 N. J. L. J. E.

(1') llistnr)’ of allots-attceofctr-ts. .-ill:-r v. Sharla. 2 [Tm-.l88.
It is a general principle that the prevailing party in suits-,iu
all courts of law, is entitled to costs. Noun v. t‘i!r(‘orno'r-I.~,l
ﬂmlh. ‘I09, ‘ill. I11-uve ads. F.)/,2 Vr. 139, Ml. Stale v. lilo/.1",
7 Yr. 443. See Rrit-v".~: v. Slirev, Sprn. 52, 56. Costs are given,
where the plttlutitl' recovers d8lllilI{t'.‘l. Bred v. (.'hr_(nn'_r/, Sp:-rt.
6l6, 6l7.
Where each party I\'li('(‘t-t'il§ in part, no costs are
allowed. 1)v'u-res V. Jlnrihvvllnn Ins. flu. 5 l'r ‘.353. \\'herchoth
parties are wrotuz. each should pn_v his own costs. (lo: v. B1 n

net, 1 I-‘r. iii-5.

stationery, or copies of deeds. F0 rynlsnn ads. .900", 2 i'r. 2%.
Oosts cannot be awarded on a successful motion to set
aside a return ofsurveyots laying out a road : there is no statute
insettled practice wauthorlze it. In rr 1'I|'(/huwy, 2 Zah. ‘Z93. (in
report of referees, where no datnuges or costs “'0-H‘ i'ound for the
plnintlfl", the defendant must pay an equal moiety of the costs.
I)¢'n v. I','1'!u7l, l Soulh. ‘U3 tn). .~inon_t/nmmt, Pen, °228, \\'here

defendant puts on a cause on aﬂidavlt, he will not be compelled
to pay costs ofajury struck by plaintiff It? nnr1l_t/ v. I)i.ron, I
Jlol. I59. in the taxed hill ot costs-ona rule for restitutlon,attor
I16)’ ﬂllti counsel's argument fee allowed. ,1Ir(_'Itrxmy V, RI»!/m's,

3 Hui. 272.

On setting aside an lt'ret;ular proceeding, the party

against whom it has been taken, is not liable to costs. Bogus
v. Chiche.-um-, l Hr. 209. In taxing costs, the only services
rendered in a cause, for which charges can be taxed and
allowed, are those specitically provided for in the fee bill.
.4nrm_ipnou.w, Sp:-tn. ll'.‘..
Services are frequently rendered

for which no speciﬁc pl‘0\'lslo|i is made and for which there
ought to be a reasonable t‘0mpeIt!~nllou ; but costs are given by
statute, and the court and taxing officers cannot extend the pro
visions oi the statute to meet such case. lb. The attorney of
a plaintiff who has recovered a _illti_L[lllPIll in this court has a
claim ttpott it for his taxable costs and charges, which is to be

areferred to the defendant's ritght to offset ajudgnn-ut held by

Ihotl v. AH‘ n,

If the dt-ft-ndant was Qilliilwl to costs, and none

were given to him, the plaintiffcould not complain.

costs.
1b., Q 2.

court, having no power to enter judgment, cannot give
costs. Brrbr v. Newark, 4 Zoh. 47, 50. Until judgment pro
nounced the right to costs does not become vested, and it
may be altered by the legislature prmltnlr nu. Rmler v. Road
Dim-trl. 7 i'r. 273. Plaintiff cannot recover costs of copies
or exem illtications of records used as evidence on the trial.
hm v. ohnmn, l Vr. 156.
Where a defendant removes an
indictment into the supreme court and carries it down to
the circuit for trial, the attorney for the state cannot tax
his costs as in a civil action, but is entitled onl
to his
regular fees as in criminal cases. Smrrv. Rrrd, 3
at. 178.
There is no provision in the fee bill for revenue stamps. and
there is no more authority to charge for stamps than for

V\'here the plaintifff has omitted to enterjudg

ment for costs, he cannot recover (‘mists below.

2 Zim, -$17.

\Vhen defendant
shall recover

(‘rnu-,ford

v, lihorh-u_[i’, Hit. ".377. Upon an appeal front an award of
commissioners as to the value of lauds taken by a city, the

im atrttlnst the plnintilf. Phillips v. Mm-lt'o_y, 2.’, l'r. 319. Ii‘,
after suit brought, the defendant pay in full the debt or dam
ages due the plttintlif. judgment cannot he rendered for costs.
Van Ilorn v. Cbllins, 12 N. J. L. J. 78.

(ll By the act toamend certain errors in the Revised Laws, approved April 9th. I875 (P. L. 1873. p. 9| _l, this section not to apply to
such of the judges ot' the court of errors and appeaisas are specially-appointed jtniges of that cottrt. .\'o judge of any district court
is prohibited from practiciut: in an_v court of this state except in the court oft-ontmon pleas in the county wherein said district
court is or may be established, in Ctl§.lt'.'S of appeals from said dtstrict court. see ante, p. 1252,
205.

162

PRACTICE.

2578

ha\'e judgment to recover his costs against the plaintifff (except against

executors or administrators prosecuting in the right of their testators or
Proceasto recover.

intestates), to be taxed as aforesaid and may have such process or execu

Costa on arrestof

tion as the plaintifff might have had against him, ifjudgment had been
given in such action for the plaintifff. (a)
267. 'l‘hat where judgment shall be arrested, each party shall pay his

3“““'“°“‘"
Goats, when title
to land in
question.
Ib., Q 5.

own costs.
268. [Amended by Sec. 319, post]
269. That in all actions of trespass commenced or prosecuted in the
supreme court, wherein the justice, at the trial of the cause, shall ﬁnd and
certify, under his hand, upon the back of the record, that the title to lands,
tenements, hereditaments or other real estate came in question on the trial
of said cause, and the plaintifff shall recover any damages, he shall recover
full costs of suit. (b)

Costs. when suit
removed by
habeas corpus.

Ib., Q 6.

Costs in circuit
court.
R. S. 200, Q 9.

In actions cogni
zable before
justlce’s court
brought in
another court.
R. S. 229, é 83.
Amended.
It recovery
reduced by
defense of failure
of consideration
or recoupment.
Piaintiﬂ‘ may
recover costs, if
judge certify.

270. That if any suit commenced in any circuit court or court of common

pleas, shall be removed by writ of habeas corpus into the supreme court
by the defendant, and the plaintifff shall recover in the supreme court, he
shall recover full costs in case he would have been entitled to recover
costs, had the suit remained and been tried in the circuit court or court of
common pleas. (c)
271. That the same costs and fees shall be allowed in all personal actions
brought originally in the circuit courts, as are by law allowed in the courts
of common pleas for like services, and shall be recoverable in like manner;
provided, costs would have been recovered in such case, in said courts of
common pleas and not otherwise; and in all actions real and mixed,
originally commenced in said circuit courts, and all personal actions
removed therein,the same costs and fees shall beallowed and recovered
as are by law allowed and recovered for like services in the supreme court.

272. That if any person shall institute a suit for any debt, demand or
cause of action, made cognizable before the courts for the trial of small
causes, in any other of the courts of law of this state, and obtain judgment
therein for any sum which, without costs, shall not exceed one hundred
dollars, then such person shall not recover any costs in such suit, except
as hereinafter provided.
'

273. That whenever in an action on contract brought in the supreme or
circuit court, the plaintifff shall recover, but the amount of the debt or

damages recovered shall be reduced below the sum which would entitle
plaintifff to costs in such courts, by allowance made to the defendant for a
partial failure of the consideration of the contract sued on, or abatement
by way of recoupment of damages, the plaintifff shall be entitled to his
costs, if the justice of the supreme court before whom such action is tried,
shall certify that in his judgment the plaintifff had reasonable grounds for
bringing his action in such court.

‘:’°5;?;"c“°b‘:::_“i“"

274. That if any action to recover damages for a tort, which is cogniza
able before the courts for the trial of small causes, shall be brought in the

r1;lce(mlf0'§m‘u

circuit court, the plaintifff shall be entitled to recover his costs, notwith
standing that he shall not recover a sum exceeding one hundred dollars;
provided, that the judge, before whom such action is tried, shall immedi
ately after verdict found, certify that in his judgment the said action

In actions of tort

verdict is not d

§,Y,?,‘{;§3,“°4g¢'_““ ‘° should have been brought in the circuit court.
(a) Upon entering judgment the defendant is entitled tn tax

the cost.-4 ofall proceedings subsequent to the ﬁling ofthe poslea
and report of the referee. Dam v. S|.t.tarle', 8 Vr. 50. Where the
defendant moved the plaintiffrs non-suit for not trying his
cause at circuit, when he offered to proceed, but was prevented
by the court. because he did not produce a paper he had
promised to produce for the defendant's use. costs were denied

the defendant. Anun_v/moua, I-‘en. °5i3. A party who fails to
pursue his notice of a motion or proceeding in this court is
labia for costs. Reeve ads. L_‘ft,2 i"r. l39. The pinintiﬂis moved
for leave to discontinue, which was gran ted on payment ofcosia.
Pellter v. Pennington, 2 fir. 312, 3i3. If a trial goes on, on

account of a defect or mistake ofthe_iudge Orsheriffin making
out the
costs.

anei ofa struck jury. the plalntiﬂ'is not uhllged to pay
ibbom ads. Ogden, 2 Hal. 122. (Josts were allowed to a

defendant who had succeeded on the motion to retax a bill of
costs.

S1010 v. All:-n, 2 Dulcll. N7.

Revue ads. E71. 2 l'r. 139, Ml.

(ii) Qucry—Whether the certiﬁcate may be given at any time.

Budd v. Sltllc, I Hm‘. Z63. Qua-y—\Vhether an oral statement
is suﬂicienl. Hun! v. lllorriz, 7 Hal. 175. 177. This section
relates only to actions of trespass.

lb.

Where an action of

trespass qunrc clausum/rem! is brought In a_|ustice‘s court and
title pleaded, and a suit for the same trespass broughtin the

supreme court thereupon, although the su t inthecourt below
is not referred to in the pleadings, the supreme court will take
notice of that fact upon thelglea being produced, counter-signed
by the parties, so as to en le them to award costs. Van PH:
v. Phillipl, 4 Zab. 560. Costs cannotbe recovered without the
certiﬁcate. Chambcn v. Wnmhmq/h, 4 Dutch" 530, 53?. See
Div-kvrson v. Wadsworlh, 4 Vr. 357, 350.
(c) _lfan action wherein the title to the land must come in
question be commenced in the common pleas, and he removed
by the defendant into the supreme court, the plaintifff shall
recover fuiicosts, although the judgment in his ﬂavor be ism
than {$00. Hanklnwn v. Baird, 1 Hal. 130.

PRACTICE.

2579

275. That in suits on the same instrument, bond or note, where several
are bound, and in suits against the maker, indorser or indorsers of any

note, and in suits on any inland bill of exchange against the drawer, acceptor
or any indorser or indorsers, thereof, there shall be a taxation and recovery
of the attorney and counsel fees taxable by law in one of the said suits
only. at the election of the plaintifff; and no fees for attorney or counsel
shall be allowed or taxed in any hill of costs, in any suit or suits brought

Suits on same
paper, but one
hill of costs
allowed for
attorney and

counsel.
R. & 489. H.

on the same instrument, bond, note or inland bill of exchange against any

party or parties thereto, other than in the one where the election is made
as aforesaid.
276. That in suits upon any writ of scire facias, the plaintifff obtaining
judgment or award of execution, after plea pleaded, or demurrer joined
therein shall recover his costs of the suit; and if the plaintifff shall become

On sci. fa. how
costs adjudged.
1b., I 8.

non-suit, or suffer a discontinuance, or a verdict shall pass against him, the

defendant shall recover his costs, and have execution for the same, in the
manner aforesaid. (a)
277. That in actions for assault, battery, or imprisonment, or for slander
or libel, if the plaintiﬂ' shall not recover damages to the amount of ﬁfty
dollars, he shall recover no more costs than damages. (b)
278. That where several persons are made defendants to any action of
trespass, assault, false imprisonment, trespass on the ease, replevin or

ejectment, and any one or more of them shall be, upon the trial thereof,
acquitted by verdict, every person, so acquitted shall recover his costs of
suit, in like manner as if all the defendants had been acquitted; unless

the judge before whom such cause shall be tried, shall, immediately after
the trial thereof, in open court, certify upon the record or in the minutes
of the court, under his hand, that there was a reasonable cause for the
making such person or persons a defendant or defendants to such action. (0)
279. That if any person shall prosecute, in any court of record, any
action or suit, wherein, upon any demurrer, either by plaintifff or defend
ant, judgment shall be given by the court against such plaintifff, in every
such action or suit, the defendant shall have judgment to recover his
costs against such plaintifff and have execution for the same in manner
aforesaid. (d)
280. That when a demurrer shall be overruled after argument, and the
court shall give the party demurring liberty to plead anew, it shall be
upon terms of the payment to the adverse party of the costs upon the
demurrer. (e)

281. That in suits upon any obligation or specialty, or upon any con
tract,express or implied, to or with the state of New Jersey, or the governor
thereof, or any person to or for the use of the said state. the state of New
Jersey or other plaintifff, shall recover costs, as any other persons may do
in suits for his or her debts; but if the plaintifff in such action shall be
non-suited, or if a verdict shall pass against him, the defendant shall not
recover any costs against such plaintifff; provided, that nothing in this
section shall extend to any popular action, nor to any action to be prose
cuted by any person in behalf of himself and this state, upon any penal
statute. nor to any indictment, presentment or inquisition.

282. That the clerk of the court shall tax and subscribe his name to all
bills of costs in any civil cause in the court whereof he is clerk, agreeably

In actions for
snault. slander,
libel. &c.
One of several
defendants
acquitted shall
have costs.
R. S. 449, I9.
Except in what
use.

When npon
demurrer,
defendant to
have costs.
Ib., Q 10.

Costs on privilege
to plead after
demurrer over
ruled.
State to recover
but not pay costs.
B. S. H9, {[16, l7,
18.

Clerk to tax costs.
R. S. 455, Q 4.

to the fees allowed by law, and shall in no case allow any item or charge
unless the service in his opinion, shall have been necessary in regularly
(a) Where Judgment has been obtained for the penalty of a
bond for non-performance of covenants or agreements, and
execution is awarded on sctrefacim setting up further breaches,

costs will be taxed. Stale v. Franks 22 Fr. 410.
(b) In an action of trespass, if plaintifff recovers less than £50
damages, he shall not recover costs. While v. Ilunl, 1 Hat. 416.
The rule is the same, whether the damages are assessed by a
jlury on the trial or on writ of inquiry. lb. Upon a verdict for
em rthan
,1n an action fori bel, in this court. costs cannot
be inclnd
in the judgment. Hart v. Goodman, 13 Vr. 573.
(c‘ W'here a verdict was rendered in favor of one of Iwo de
fen nts, and no certificate made by the court that there was
reasonable muse for making him s defendant. a rule wasen
tered in his favor for his costs of suit. Abrams ads. Flam!
South. '54-4.

(d) On demurrer by plaintifff to the plea of the defendant,

costs abide the event of the suit. Garr v. Swim, 1 Har. 403, 410.
Costs are the creature of statute ; no statute provides for costs
to relators who succeed on a demurrer to an alternative mam
damur. Hopper v. Freeholder: of Ber-pen, 23 Vr. 313.
(e) The party up lying to amend must pay costs. Cbruilt v.
gitghbor, 7 Hal.
. Den v. Saaorave, 1 Har. 867. Den v. Gu
, 1 Har. 489. Hau v. Bnowhiu, 2 Gr. 8. Mayw q! Newark v.
.Dam':. 8 Har. 22. Gmdit v.
, 1 lab. 431. Wear: v. Hoop
Land. 2 Zrb. 521. Lanntna v. Qmle 2 Swan. ‘T18.
I v.

Phln

,1 01.1. Wood v. Latte, 0 i'r. 471. A plaintifff will be

allow
to amend his writ and declaration, without the pay
ment oi’ costs, when the ractice and law have been unsettled.
Wiuiamrmr v. Updyke, '2
. 270. Semen ads. Sloan. 3 Har. 49.
See Pen-due v. Applsgote, 1 Jfctlrrt. 682 Where both parties
111;? wrong, each should pay his own costs.

(1):: v. Bemiet, 1 G1".

PRACTICE.

2580

Oasis due court,
oificers, &.c., to be
separated.

Ib., 5 9.
Retaxation, how
obtained.
Ib., Q 8.
Amended.

By whom ex
pense of retails
tion be paid.

Sn reme court
court oi‘
errors may make
order for psy
ment of expenses

of printing, dc.
P. L. 1878, p. 85.

conducting the cause, and shall have actually been performed, and shall
so appear on the minutes of the court. (a)
283. That every judge, clerk, or other person, who, by law, is author
ized to tax any bill of costs, shall, in such bill, class and set together those

which belong to the court, or justices orjudges, clerk, attorney and coun
selor. sheriff and other person or persons, distributively.
'
284. That any person aggrieved by any bill of costs may apply to the
court in which the action is pending, at the next term after payment
demanded, to have the same retaxed according to law, whose decision

shall be ﬁnal; and if any charge is contained in such bill as taxed, for
services not actually rendered, or any item therein is charged higher than
is allowed by law, the court shall order that the expense of retaxation shall
be paid by the attorney who drew said bill or by the clerk who taxed the
same, as the court may direct; but if the court shall ﬁnd the said bill
to be taxed according to law, the applicant shall pay the expense of
retaxation. (b)
285. That the supreme court and the court of errors and appeals, shall
have power by general rule or by a special rule in any case pending in said
courts, to make such order for the payment of the cost of printing and
other disbursements by either party, and the taxation and allowance thereof
in the bill of costs, as said courts may deem just.

[For table of fees, see title Fans AND C0s'rs.]
XVII. Powers of the court or a. judge.
Order to protect

286. That in any action in which the right to real estate or to goods

property, or pre

and chattels is in controversy, the court or any judge thereof, may make
an order for the protection of the property in controversy from waste,
destruction, or removal beyond the jurisdiction of the court, upon satis
factory proof being made of the necessity for such order, and to enforce
such order by an attachment for contempt. (0)

vent its removal
pending suit.
P. L. 1856, p. ‘Z88,
-Q 84.
SGYKQGDUBVBTHIS
may be

287. That the justice of the supreme court to whom a judicial district
has been or may be assigned, is authorized to appoint a suitable person in

appointed.

P. L. 1857, p. 191.

Compensation of.

Court may order
that verdict be
taken by the

clerk.

each county in the district, as sergeant-at-arms of the courts within the

county, to hold oﬂice during the pleasure of said justice; whose duty it
shall be to attend daily upon the said courts in the county wherein
appointed during the several terms thereof; for which services they shall
be entitled severally to receive two dollars per day for each day of actual
attendance upon said courts, to be paid by the county collector of the
county on the certiﬁcate of the presiding judge; provided, h0u:¢~ue1', that he
shall not for the same time receive a per diem compensation as a constable
or as a crier of the courts in the county. (d)

288. That the court in which any civil action is tried, before a jury,
may, unless objection is made
the jury shall be taken by the
judge, and may order that the
any such verdict shall he valid
of the-judge. (e)

(a) Costs as taxed are resumed to be legal. Romaine v.
N01-rlx, 3 Ifal. 80, 83. See Mllips v. Hunt, One 137. The rule
dues not prevent the clerk from inserting in the record the
whole amount of costs, ii’ the biil has been taxed and ﬂied at
the time of making up the record; notwithstanding such bill
may not have been taxed and ﬂied within the period men
tioned in the rule. Brue-re v. Brittm|,Spc11. 258. Statement of

term, after the bill is taxed by the clerk and payment thereon
demanded. But the relaxation may be made at that or any
subsequent term, according to circumstances. Den v. Chupnum.
3 Hat. 176. Where, on appeal by a demandant in (lower irom
the cierk’s taxation, several items were deducted, the demand
ant was held liable for the costs oi the relaxation. Anon!/~

items proper for taxing in a bill of costs. The Ordinary v.
Allen, 2 Dutch. H5. Andrews v. Fvrd,2 Jlal. Ch. 488. On scire

rc) Such rules were ranted before the passage of this statute.
Harker v. Ch'ri.sty, 2
um. "I17. Flommerjfell v. Zellera, 2 Hal.
31. The supreme court has no power under this section to
appoint a receiver to take charge of the rents oi’ the premises
pending an action oi’ eiectment. Oehmc v. Rm-kldiaua,2l Vr.

- fuciaa to revive a judgment the ncstlon of illegally taxing
costs mnnot be raised on motion. ‘3°ln'Ltip.r v. Hunl, Come 137.
1
(b) An action will notiic to recover an unreasonable amount
‘l

of costs, which have been taxed and

- by retaxation. Allen v. Hbckamt, 1

aid ; the

at. 409.

roper remedy is

e party obtain

ing the taxation of a bill oi’ costs, must, upon a relaxation,

by either party, direct that the verdict of
clerk in open court in the absence of the
court remain open for that purpose: and
the same as if it were given in the presence

rove the items objected to.

But the party moving fora re

ation must give his adversary notice, and state the particu

lars of the bill of costs to which he objects and the nature oi‘
his objection. Hays ads. Willlarna,-1 Hut. 3R3. The application
to the court to retax a hill of costs must be made at the next

mmu, Spm. Z12, 114.

84.

See Kirchrr v. Schalk, 10 Vr. 389.

(d) As to appointment oi‘ court crier and sergeanbat-arms,
see 13 N. J. L. J. 174.
(22 The strict rule of the common law is modiﬁed by this
sect on, which permits the court to order the clerk to mite I
verdict, unless such order is dissented from by counsel.
v. It/u-mhip 0/ Delaware, 1'1 Vr. 57.

~

Dari:

i
PRACTICE.

2581;

289. That where several actions are pending in the same court brought
by the same plaintifff against the same defendant, in which the same or
similar matters of controversy are involved, or cross-actions are pending
between the same parties in the same court, with respect to the same trans
action, which arc triable in the same manner, and may conveniently be
tried together, it shall be lawful for the court in which such actions are
pending, on the application of either party, or on its own motion, to order
that such actions be consolidated for the purpose of trial; and in case of
the consolidation of cross-actions, the court shall make such order for the

trial and for the apportionment of the costs as shall he just and equitable. (a)

Consolidation of
actions or cron
actions.

How costs appor

tioned on con
solidstion of cross
actions

[See Sec. l2l, (mte.]

290. That wherever it is provided by this act, that application may
be made to a judge, as distinguished from the court, for any rule or order
touching any action,such application may be made before any judge of
the court where the action is pending, in vacation or term time.

291. That any justice of the supreme court or judge of the circuit court
shall have power in vacation to grant all rules and make all orders that
may be necessary or proper in any cause pending in said courts, and may
direct the taking of testimony to be read on the application for such rule
or order; provided, that this power shall not extend to the ﬁnal hearing of
motions to set aside judgments entered in the supreme court on bond and
warrant of attorney, or by confession ; nor to the appropriation of monies
in the supreme court between judgment creditors, except by consent in
writing ; nor to any matter which by the rules or practice of the supreme
court is required to be placed on the argument list of the said court. (b)
292. That any justice of the supreme court shall have power in vacation,
upon aﬁidavit laid before him showing that any judgment entered in the
supreme court by confession or otherwise was confessed or obtained for the
purpose of defrauding the creditors of the defendant, to grant a rule to show
cause before the supreme court at the next term why such judgment should
not be set aside as in favor of other judgment creditors of the defendant, and
to stay the execution issued thereon; and also to order that testimony be
taken to be used at the hearing.
293. That whenever a controversy arises between execution creditors as
to the application of the proceeds realized from the sale of the property of
a defendant under executions issued out of different courts, it shall he law

ful for a justice of the supreme court, by an order, to direct into which of
the said courts the monies so made shall be paid ; and the court into which '
such payment shall be directed to he made, shall thereby obtain jurisdiction
to hear and decide the whole controversy between such execution creditors
in relation to the proceeds of such sale; and the said justice may, at the
time of making such order, or at any time thereafter, grant a rule to show
cause before the said court, in such form as will present for decision the
matter in controversy. and may make an order for taking testimony to be
read on the argument of such rule.
294. That any justice of the supreme court in vacation may grant rules
to show cause why writs of mandamus and of quo warranto should not
issue, and make orders for the taking of testimony’ to be used on the argu
ment of such rules.

295. That the argument of any motion or cause in the supreme court
which by the rules and practice of the court is cognizable before the branch
of the supreme court, sitting for the hearing and deciding of common busi
ness, may, by the consent of the parties interested, be heard before one or
more of the justices of the supreme court at chambers, either in term time
or vacation ; whose decisions and judgments shall be as good and effectual

Application for
rules, die.

P. L. 1855, p. 288,
Q B8.

Judge may make
all orders in
causes in
vacation.
Except setting
aside judgments

by confession in
supreme court.

May grant rule to
show cause why
fraudulent judg

ment should not
be set aside.
And slay execu

tion.

.\Ia_\' make urtier
for payment of
money in case of
dispute between
execution
"editors.

Ma_—,- grant rule to
show cause why
mandamus or quo
warrunto should
not issue.
Ceﬂlllil causes in
supreme court

may, by consent,
be argued in
vacation.

as if they had been rendered at thefbar of said court.
-(ct) The court will not Consolidate two actions brought against
the same person, by the same plaintiﬂis, upon promissory noies
drawn at different dates and myable a itferent times, where
it does not appear that the de ense is ihe some in each. Wurlcy

ads. Glentworlh, 5 Hal. ‘.‘-ii.

Two several writs oi‘ rcirejacla-r to

revive two several executions by the $81119 plaintifff against the
some defendant, cannot be consolidated. Mickie \'. B‘|‘(‘ll'€T, 3

Hal. B5. Form of rule. Dc-n v. Kimble, 4 Hal: 33§- 338.
(b) See La Valle v. Electric Cullen] 02., '27 Ir. 6.1.

PRACTICE.

2582
Judge may refer
motions to
supreme court.

Courts to make
rules.

Power of the
supreme court to
make rules regu

lating pleading

296. That any justice of the supreme court or judge of the circuit court
to whom application may be made for any rule or order by virtue of this
act, may, in his discretion, refer the same to the supreme court, and make
such order for the taking of testimony and for stay of proceedings as may
be equitable.
297. That the justices of the supreme court, and the judges of the courts
of common pleas in every county of this state, shall make such rules and
regulations for expediting and conducting suits, and the management of
business in their respective courts, as they shall from time to time judge
proper.

298. That it shall be lawful for the justices of the supreme court to
‘provide by general rules for the hearing and argument of any litigated or
uulitigated motions before any one of the justices of the said court in vaca
tion, whenever, in their judgment, it may be expedient so to do, and under

and practice.

R. B. 929, Q 107.

P. L. 1s.s1, p. 311,
Q i0.

" 1855, p. ass,
Q B7.
Amended.

Circuit court,
rules of.
R. S. 200, Q8.

such regulations as they may prescribe, and for ﬁxing the costs to be allowed
for and in respect of the matters herein contained, and the performance
thereof, where said costs are not ﬁxed by law, and for apportioning the costs
of issues ; and it shall be the duty of the justices of the said court to make
all such rules and regulations as may be necessary to obviate any difficulties
that may arise in the practice of the courts of law by reason of any omis
sions or defects in the same, and to regulate the pleadings and practice in the
said courts so as to render the practice and proceedings therein more eﬂicieut,
expeditious and simple, and for that purpose they shall have power to change
and regulate such pleadings and practice.

299. That the justices of the supreme court shall and may adopt uniform
rules of practice in all matters not regulated by law for the government of
the circuit courts, and the same from time to time, alter, repeal and modify
as occasion may require.
[As to power of court to require indemnity to be given to a defendant
in actions on negotiable instruments which have been lost, see title
I’ao.\nssoaY Norss, Sec. 7.]
XVIII. Construction.

Singular number
and masculine
gender spplltmble

to what.
P. L. 1855, p. 288,
Q 89.

300. That whenever, in describing or referring to any person, party,
matter or thing, any word importing the singular number or masculine
gender is used in this act, the same shall be understood to include, and
shall apply to several persons and parties, as well as one person or party,
and females as well as males, and bodies corporate (a) as well as indi
viduals, and several matters and things as well as one matter or thing,
unless it be otherwise provided, or there be something in the subject or
context repugnant to such construction.

This act not lo
alfect proceedings
before Justice's
court.

Ib., Q91.

301. That nothing in this act contained shall in any way affect any pro
ceedings by virtue of the act entitled, “ An act constituting courts for the
trial of small causes,” except that the provisions of this act relating to
variances and amendments of pleadings (as modiﬁed by the act above
referred to) shall apply to actions in the several courts of common pleas
on appeal from any court for the trial of small causes. (1))

XIX. Supplements.
Supplement.
P. L. 1876, p. 81.
Bheriff shall

Approved March 22, 1576.

392. SEO. 1. That the sheriﬁ" of each county in this state shall keep in

keep and cause

to be entered in

his oﬂicc a book, in which he shall cause to be entered the return made by

a book the return

him to each writ of summons, capias ad rcspondendum, attachment, scire
facias, subpoena ad respondendum and ne exeat that shall come to his

made by him to
each writ of
summons, ac

hands for service, the day before any such writ shall be returnable; such
(a) See Dock v. Elizahelhtnum Mann/a. 00., 5 Vr. 312, M3.
Jlcbfenl V. Glance’-Iltr Oily, 22 Vr. 444.
(b) See Cole v. Witlmrru, Pen. '558, ‘$59. Schuyler v. Mcﬂrca,

l Hnr-. 248, 25L
18 V1". 400.

Orq/‘¢ v. Smith, 6 V1-. :02, 306.

Bum v. Frenrh.

PRACTICE.

2583

book shall be at all times available for the inspection of any of the parties
to any such writ or their respective attorneys of record, and on the death
of said sheriﬁ" or expiration of his term of oilice said book shall be deposited
and kept in the custody of the clerk of the court of common pleas of his
county, and the record of any such return so made by such sheriff, or a
transcript thereof, certiﬁed to be a true transcript by such sheriﬁ‘ or clerk
of the court of common pleas, as the case may be. shall be prima facie evi
dence in any court of this state of the return made by such sheritl‘ to any
such writ.
Supplement.
Approved April ll, 1870.

P. L. 1876, p. 95.

303. SEC.
1. That of
unless
oneduty
of theof parties
in the
cause,or
the attorney
suchotherwise
party, it directed
shall bebv
vthe
the clerks
of

Statement of
J"'18l11@"*s-“'11”

the several and respective circuit courts and courts of common pleas in
this state, whenever any ﬁnal judgment shall be entered in either of said
courts for the payment of any debt, damages, costs, or other sum of money,
to record,in well-bound books,tobe provided for that purpose, a state
ment of such judgment, and to make acomplete alphabetical index to the
same, which statement shall contain :
I. The title of the court, the names at length of all the parties to such
judgment, designating particularly against Whom it is rendered, and also
the title of any corporation, and the corporate name of all ﬁrms, if such
appear in the pleadings;
II. The style of action and the amount of debt, damages, or other sums
of money recovered with the costs, which shall be entered in ﬁgures and
words at length ;
III. The date of the actual entry and signing of such judgment:

to be recorded by
clerks and index
made.

And

What to contain.

that in all entries of judgments under this act, where the judgment when rnleentered

is not for a speciﬁed sum therein named, and in all judgments in cases of

in minutes may
be transcribed.

ejectment, certiorari or on discontinuance, the rule entered in the minutes

of the court where such judgment was obtained may be transcribed in the
book of judgments record herein provided for; and that the entries and
record of judgments so made as aforesaid under this act, shall be signed by
the presiding judge of the court in which such judgment is entered, and a
transcript of such record duly certiﬁed by the clerk of said court, shall be
evidence in any court of this state as to the i'act of the entry of such judg
ment ; that upon payment or satisfaction of any such judgment, the record
thereof so made as aforesaid may be canceled in the manner now provided
by law for the satisfaction of judgments; and that, unless otherwise

Entnu and record
to be signed by
presiding Judge.

directed as above mentioned, or unless by writ of error or other writ or

proceeding, the record shall be required to be removed to any other court,
no further or other record or enrollment of such judgment shall be made.
304. SEC. 2. That whenever any of the parties to a cause in said courts,
or their attorneys or attorney, shall direct the judgment in such cause to
be recorded in full, or whenever any writ of error, or other writ or proceed
ing shall require the removal of the record ofjudgment in said cause to
any other court, then such clerk shall record the said judgment and the
proceedings in said cause as now required by law ; and in such case, if the
statement and record provided for by the ﬁrst section of this act has been
then made. it shall be the duty of the clerk to enter on the margin of the
said statement and record the date and place where the same judgment is
recorded in full; and, in case of a satisfaction and cancellation of said

judgment on one of said records, the said clerk shall also enter, at the foot
of the other of said records, a statement of the fact of the cancellation and
satisfaction of the other record, with the date thereof; and the cancellation

and satisfaction of said judgment on one of such records shall be a suf
ﬁcient discharge and satisfaction of the other.

When clerk to
record said Judg
ment as now
required by law.

Satlslhctlon and
cancellation on
such record.

2584

PRACTICE.

Supplement.
Approved March 9, 1877.

P. L. 1877, p. 112.
When defendant
held to bail in
action on contract,
lawful on trial to
inquire into facts
of fraud.

Judge to certify
whether fraud

305. SEC. 1. That when any defendant or defendants in any action on
contract has been held to bail upon preliminary aﬂidavits, upon the ground
of fraud in the inception of the contract, it shall be lawful, upon the trial
of said cause, to inquire into the fact of said fraud; and if it shall appear
on said trial that there was no fraud on the part of the defendant or
defendants in the inception of said contract, then there shall not issue in
said action a body execution; and the judge or justice presiding at the
trial of said cause shall determine from the evidence and certify upon the

proved or nor.

record whether said fraud was proved or not.
Supplement.

P. L. ms. p. so.
When venue im
properly changed.
costs, &.c., of trial
to be paid by
county in which

venue was prop
erly laid.

Costs and
expenses to be
taxed and eeril
lied l0 be correct.

Approved March 14, 1&1.

306. SEC. 1. That herealter, whenever by virtue of the provisions of the
two hundred and thirty-ﬁrst section of the act to which this is a supple
ment, or otherwise, the supreme court shall or may have in one year past
changed the venue to some other county than that in which it is laid in
the declaration ﬁled in such cause, unless such change of venue is made

because improperly laid in the declaration. the costs and expenses incurred
by the county to which such venue is changed, in the trial and disposition
of such cause, shall be refunded and paid to such county by the county in
which such venue was originally properly laid.

307. SEO. 2. That the clerk of the county in which such trial shall or
may have taken place shall tax the costs and expenses incurred by the
county in and by reason of such trial, which tax bill, when certiﬁed to be
correct by the justice of the supreme court before whom such trial was
had, shall be forwarded to the treasurer or collector of the county from
which such venue was changed.
Supplement.

P. L. ms, p. 103.
In suit on bond of
township col
lector, wlint claims
may be included.

Approved March 2!, 1878.

308. SEO. 1. That in any suit by the inhabitants of any township in their
corporate capacity upon the bond of any township collector, there may be
included all claims of such township in its own right, or in the right of
another person or corporation, for public monies which have come to the

hands of such collector, for any purpose whatever, and with which he is
legally chargeable.
Supplement.
Approved April 5, 1678.

P. L 1878, p. 3&5,

Reeoguizance not
to bind goods and
lands until names
of persons taking
same are entered
by clerk in a
book, dtc.

309. SEO. 1. That hereafter no recognizance taken and acknowledged
by any person or persons in any suit, action or proceedings at law of a civil
nature, shall bind the goods and chattels, lands and tenements and heredita
ments of such person taking and acknowledging the same, until the clerk
of the court in which such recognizance is ﬁled shall cause the names of
the persons so taking and acknowledging the same to be entered in a book
to be kept for that purpose in the offices of the clerks of the different courts
of this state, which book shall contain the names of such person or per
sons taking and acknowledging the same, and shall also contain the names
of the person or persons in whose favor such recognizance is made, and
shall be properly indexed, and to which the public shall at all times have
free access; and the said clerk shall be allowed to charge the sum of ten
cents for entering every recognizance in such book.
Supplement.

P. 1. rsso, p. ass.
Order on failure
to answer inter
rogniories.

Approved March 12, 18$.

310. S1:-:o. 1. That in case any party to an action at law shall willfully
fail, neglect or refuse to answer any written interrogatories served upon
him or his attorney by the opposite party, under the provisions of the one

PRACTICE.

2585

hundred and ﬁfty-ﬁfth section of the act to which this is a supplement, it
shall he lawful for the court or any judge thereof, in addition to the reme
dies provided by said section, to make order debarring said party, if a
plaintifff, from further prosecuting his suit, and if a defendant, from mak
ing further defense thereto.
Supplement.
Approved February Z3, 18-B1.

311. SEC. l. That any judge of the court of common pleas in any of the
counties of this state, who is also an attorney or counselor-at-law of this
state, may, and he is hereby authorized to, practice as such attorney or
counselor in any of the courts of this state except the courts whereof he
is a judge, or courts of inferior jurisdiction thereto, any general or special

P. L. 1881, p. 42.
Law judge of pleas
may practice In

other courts.

law hitherto enacted to the contrary notwithstanding. [Sec Sec. 263, anle.]
Supplement.
r. L. 1881, p. m.

Approved March 22, 1881.

312. Ssc. 1. Amended by Sec. 339, post.]
313. Si-:0. 2. hat all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are
hereby repealed.

Repealer.

Supplement.
P. 1. i882, p. ill.

Approved March 17,1882

314. SEO. 1. That the one hundred and thirty-third section of an act to
which this is a supplement be amended so that the same shall read as
follows :
[That any frivolous plea or demurrer or sham plea may be struck out by
the court or by a judge thereof, in term time or vacation,upon fourdays’
notice. unless the court shall by its order, for special reason. direct shorter
notice, in writing, of the application to strike out the said plea or demurrer
to be given to the person or his attorney ﬁling such pleadings, unless an
affidavit shall be presented to said court or judge, setting forth that the
person or his attorney, by whom the said plea or demurrer is ﬁled, cannot
be found, when said notice shall not be necessary; and upon an applica
tion to strike out any plea as a sham plea, the court or judge may, by
an order direct the taking of testimony, to be read on the hearing of a.

motion.](a)

Frivolous plea and
demurrer and
sham pleas may

be struck out by
court upon notice.

[See Sec. 317, posh]

ill) The roper mode of proceeding in case of I bad plea
is by mot on to set it aside. liamrlll v. Grlarom, Our lilo.
Dunlap v
Kinney, 1b., note.
uery—Whetl'ier, when by
ditferent counisinadeclaration money is alleged to be due

to the plaintifff in diﬂerent cwltim, one may be stricken
out. Ilirklnsml v. Brick, Hm.
. "696, Prnninnton, J. Plea
and notice of payment ofa note payable without delinea
tlou, &c., am-r it was due, were stricken out. Lbryell v.
Orazalt, 2 South. "764. In use a frivolous plea or demurrer

15 ﬁled. U18 Proper practice is to move to strlkeitou and
for the judgment to which the part would be entiti
for
want of it: and not, it seems, w thout such motion to

its dlscreilnii, may strike it out without putting the adverse
rty in the inconvenience of ademurrer. (lore v. Hlgbee, 6
at. 395. A motloii to strike out notices sub oiued to the gene
ml issue is not too late, though the cause
been carried to
trial at thecircuit and not tried. Lilllr’ v. Belles, 7 Hal. i7i. See
Slum Bunk v. Chelwood, 3 Hal. 1. Tltlou V. Brtlton, 4 Hal. 1%.
If the plaintiffdeclares upon a bond and alleges ll to have been
" assigned to him" by the obligee,wlihout saying howassi ned,
a plea that the assignment is not the deed of the ass ior
wi i, on motion. be stricken out as being no answer to any
part of the declaration.

Richards v. Almvla Ci1nat(h., 3 Har.

Atmiv. Wheeler, 1 Zzb.

250. A plea which ought to conclude to the country, but
which concludes with a veriﬁcation will be stricken out, on

98. But they must clearly appear to be frivolous. 1101701
camp v. J*l7'l".‘TIl|lI7|-,4 Zeb. 133. The motion to strike out a
plea may be made after a demurrer to it. provided the

motion. Lbpperllmvau v. Dummrw-, 3 1101-. 258. A plea allegin
that a party insured “caused the said insurance to be eﬂ‘ecie
at a lower rernium than ou ht to have been," was struck out,

move for judgment for want of it.

motion bemade st the tirsi. opportunity.
lb. A frivolous
pin will bestrlcken out although the declaration be insulﬂ

cient. The rule upon demurrerahatjudgment shall be rendered
against the party whose pleadings are ﬁrst defective in sub
stance, does not prevail on motion tosirike out pleas.

lb. This

court will order superﬂuous counts in s declaration to be
stricken out. Hiu v. Cram, ‘.1 Gr. 577. A demurrer lalnly
frivolous will be struck out on rnotlon,and the laintilf lowed
l0 euterjlldgment for want ofa plea. Allrn v. hater, 1 lab. B3.
The motion to strike out a ﬂ'ivul0us demurrer may be made
after joinder in demurrer; sevnble even alter it is set down for
argument. Ib. Oourtsofjustiee have alwa exercised thepower
05 Pmvenling pleudinirs from being used rthe evident purpose
of chicanery and delay. lb. It has been the lmmemorial
practice ofcuurts to order frivolous counts and false pleas to be
struck from the record. Nnrlh Br~mi.~u-irk v. Booraem. 2 Hat.
160.

It is a general princi le thatif matter set up in barisob

Vlousiyand grossly insuﬂic ent, idle and frivolous, the court, in

because it id not aver that t e plslntiﬂ' obtained the insurance
at such lower premium by his false or fraudulent representa
tions. Drweea V. Mdnluluan Ina. Q2.,5 Vr. 244, Zn. A plea if
argumentative, is bad only in form, and cannot be taken advan

tage of by demurrer.

If it may be replied to under the statute,

it should not be stricken out.

Hawk v. b'c‘m‘aws, 5 V1". 355.

see Blalz v. CYn»<:nhut>rm, 1 Hal. 396, 403.

But

After a case had been

tried on grounds not raised in the replication. and the verdict
set aside, the plea being good, the replication was ordered
stricken out. Sling?’ v. Stittuxll, 6_Hul. 282, ‘L84. Anargumenta
tivs plea will be stricken out on motion. See Riga: v. Quick, 1.
Hm". 160. A justice oi‘ the su reme court has power to strike
out the general issue accompan ed by ihe statutory aﬂidnvlt, on
the ground that it is a sham plea. Cog:/Icmdall v. Robinson, ii)

V1-.9R.
error.

A rule striking out a sham plea is not reviewable on
Jllershon v. Qistru, 28 V1-. 484.

Rules ct‘ Supreme Court Bl, 82.

See nuteto-Sec.182,anl1

PRACTICE.

2586

Supplement.
APPl'0ved March 17, 1592.

P. L. 1882, p. 124.
Adverse parties
may require a
Speciﬁcation of
cause of demurrer.

315. S1-:0. 1. That whenever, in any action at law, a demurrer, alone or
in connection with other pleadings, shall be ﬁled to any pleading, the ad
verse party or parties, or any of them, shall be at liberty, by a demand in
writing, to require a speciﬁcation of the cause or causes of demurrer on

Demurrant to
furnish speciﬁcs»
tion, and on failure
the deniurred to
be a nullity.

Proviso.

which the demurrant intends to rely upon the hearing of such demurrer;
and the demurrant shall thereupon, within twenty days after such demand,
furnish the adverse party or his attorney with a speciﬁcation, in writing,
of the cause or causes of demurrer ; and, at the said hearing, the demurrant

shall be conﬁned to the cause or causes of demurrer contained in such
speciﬁcations; (a) and in case of the neglect or refusal of the dcmnrraut to
furnish such speciﬁcation within the time limited or granted, the said dc
inurrer shall be treated as a nullity ; provided, that where the ends ofjustice
require it, the court or a judge thereof may, at any time before the hearing,

Pleading
demurrrd to may

be amended on
payrnent of costs
and service of
copy of amended
pleading.

Notice of motion
to strike out to
contain statement
of defects or
Objections.

and on equitable terms, grant further time to furnish such speciﬁcation,
and may also permit the speciﬁcation which shall have been served to be
amended.
316. SEC. 2. That any pleading to which a demurrer shall be ﬁled may
be amended by the party of course, without application to the court, upon
the payment of the costs of such demurrer and service of a copy of the
amended pleading on the adverse party or his attorney within twenty days
after the time to join in such demurrer shall have commenced to run ; and
the demurrant shall ﬁle his pleading, in answer to such amended pleading,
within thirty days after such service, and in default thereof judgment may
be entered against such defaulting party for want of such pleading, unless
the court or a judge thereof, under special circumstances, shall grant further
time, and in such case, the said party shall ﬁle such pleading within the
time so granted, or judgment as aforesaid may be entered against him.

317. SEO. 3. That the notice of any motion to strike out any pleading or
any part thereof shall contain a particular statement of the defects in, or
objections to, such pleading, on which the party giving the notice intends
to rely at the hearing of such motion, and matters not speciﬁed in the said
notice shall not be considered or have any effect upon the hearing and dis
position of such motion.

318. SEC. 4. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent herewith be

Repeaier.

and the same are hereby

repealed, and that this act shall take effect

immediately.
Supplement.
P. L. 1884, p. 29.

Approved February ‘II, 1884.

319. Si-:0. 1. That section two hundred and sixty-eight, to which this
When costs not
recoverable in
supreme cou rt.

is a supplement, and which reads as follows [see P. L. 1884, p. 29], be and
the same is hereby amended to read as follows :
'
[That if in any suit commenced in the supreme court the plaintifff shall
not recover above two hundred dollars, exclusive of costs, then such

plaintifff shall not he entitled to costs; (b) but this section shall not extend
(a) Ruhwny |§'(li'i'1tél.! Irnt. V. Railway, Z4 l'r. 49.
(5) In Bl] ECHO!) O trespass un the case for overﬂowing lands,

hrought in the su reme court, ifthe title is actually broulzht in
question by the ev deuce of the defendant, the plaintifff, though
he recovers leis than two hundred dollars, will be entitled to
full costs. Hunt v. .2l{orri.r, 7 Hat. l75. To a declsi-aiiun,which
was general, the defendantlpleaded lwertun zmmmtlunt; the
iaintlﬂ’ new assi ed, dose bing the close as Chambers’ lane
n both counts o the declaration: to one count ofthe new
assignment nu new plea was riled, and to the other the defend
ant pleaded a public and common highway: a verdict was ren
dered for plaintifff for
dam es. Held, that the plea of pub
lic highway was not a p ea of tit e to lands, and thattheplalntiﬂ
could not recover costs. Clhambcra v. Wamoough, 4 Dutch. 581.
Where the declaration inthis court is for the same trespass as
that in the suit commenced in the ]ustioe’s court, uud the
pialntiif new assigns and damages under two hundred dollars
are assessed upon a plea of guilty as to part of the newly
asslgned trespass, the plainti

v. Phillipa, 4 Znb. 560.

will recover costs.

Van Pelt

In a suit in which the right toupew

comes in

uestion, pinintlﬂ in circuit is entitled to full costs,

though ve

let for less than one hundred dollars.

Churcft v. Aiidnuw, 1 211;. 325.

Pr-r.sb_1/tartan

The plea liberum tenemlrntum

puts the title in question, and where a verdict of six cents

damages was rendered for the pialnt-iﬂ', he was entitled!->
costs.

Budd v. seuu, l Har. ‘J63.

In an action for overﬂow

ing his lands to the permanent damage of the freehold. the
plaintifff is entitled to mu costs, though he recovers lw!
more than five dollars dnnuoges. Dixon. v. S0011,-%Har.~lll.
Ii‘ it a pear, on inquiry, that the production of the pinin

tlﬂ“s t l e was necessary to enable him to maintain hi!»
action. he is entitled tn his costs. Dickerson v. ii’udsu>m~l1lJ
Vr. 357.

The inquiry may be made by aﬂidavils, or b_vih%

examination of witnesses ore Imus.

lb.

Plnintiifs complain

lug of injuries not exceeding QIOO, are compelled in many uses.
at the hazard of losing their costs, to institute suits inajustlces

court, notwithstanding the title to land may come in question
Ttnriatl ads. Tindau, Span. 146, l48,Ho1-nblowcr, C. J. The plain
tiil is not entitled to costs in the supreme court, on n motion in
arrest ofjudzment, where the verdict is for a less sum than two

hundred dollars. Stiller v. Jmlrina, 8 Gr. 80°. The act M1797. lo
prevent suits under acertain sum, being brought in the supreme
C0lll‘l dues not repeal or modiiy the act of ITI4. for the more
speedy recm-er_v oflezacles on the subject of costs. Jlwi-1r Y
Arrowmnilh, lHnr. 225. Aﬂidavit that the debt exceedsjwdwl

not entitle plaintifff to costs in supreme court, on a jud8m""
underﬂm. Bmuilnnt v. Lmus, Pen. “.566. If suit on atvilit-"
vin bond is brought in a superior court and judgment for

PRACTICE.

2587

to any suit in which the title to lands, tenements, hereditaments or other ExceP'~|°"
real estate may in any wise come in question, or where the parties to a suit,
in which the amount recovered, exclusive of costs, exceeds one hundred
dollars, do not reside in the same county.] (a) [See Sec. 273, ante.]
Supplement.
Approved March 2s,1ss4.

P. L. ism. v- ‘/187

320. SEO. 1. That the one hundred and ﬁlth section of the act to which
this is a supplement be and the same hereby is amended so that the same
shall read as follows :
[The plaintifff may ﬁle his declaration and serve a copy thereof on the
defendant at the time of, or at any time alter, the issue of the summons,

provided such ﬁling and service shall not he after the time now limited by
law ; or, if he shall so elect, he may annex his declaration to the summons
and defivei' the same to the sheritl' or other officer to whom the summons
is directed and delivered, with as many copies of the summons and declara
tion as there are defendants to be served; in such case, such sheriil‘ or other

‘T
I
V
I

oﬂicer, when he serves the summons, shall.at the same time, serve a cop_v
of the declaration on each defendant, and shall return the declaration
“served,” adding the date of service, which return shall be proof of the
service of the declaration and of the schedules, statements and notices
thereon indorsed and thereto annexed. and the defendant shall file his plea
or demurrer in thirty days alter such service of the declaration, or on fail
ure tiiereoﬁjudgment shall be entered against him; provided, that there
shall be indorsed on such declaration, and on the copy served, a notice that
unless the defendant shall appear and file a plea or demurrer within thirty
days after the service of the declaration, judgment will be entered against
him; and in ever_v case where the declaration is served sepai-ateiy from the
summons, the plaintifff, bei'ore entering judgment, shall ﬁle an atiidavit of
such service; the sheriil‘ or other oilicer who serves the summons with the

Declaration may
be ﬂied and copy
served st time of
issue of summons
or may beannexed
to summons.

Return of

" served" proof
of service of
declaration.

Notice to be
lndorsed on
declaration.

declaration annexed, as above provided, shall receive the same i'ees for such

service as for the service of a summons alone, and no more, but he shall
be entitled to, in addition to the fee now allowed by law for serving sum
mons, a fee of twelve cents for returning the declaration, such fee to be
taxed in the costs.] (b)
Supplement.
Approved April 28,1884.

P. L. 188-i, p. ‘Z89.

321. Si-:0. 1. [Amended by Sec. 331, post]
‘mandatory M E‘

P. L. lass, p. 22.
Approved February 10, 1885.

[~ 322. Si-:0. 1. That sections one hundred and sixty-seven and one hun
dred and sixty-eight of the act entitled “ An act to regulate the practice of
courts of law” [Revision], approved March twenty-seventh, one thousand
lent than $60, no costs are allowed. Hu ha v. Hughes, Hm.
‘$77. Full costs allowed on judgment or M-L88 in a muse
removed hy habetu rm-pus, as the affidavit for hail exceeded
100. While v. Choke. Pen. ‘$8. On s Judgment for less than

, in the supreme court, no costs are allowed. Vrw v. (bom
hoven, Sepl., 1791, (X110 137. tn arg. An sction upon a record is
not within the provisions of the act. Bormrllj v. Ilrumni,
Cor» 193. Bwnble that in the supreme court in case ofverdlct.
for the plainilﬂ, ifthe value of the property in dispute exceeds

Qilio, the pialntiﬂ, under the statute, is entitled to costs. Hunt v.
Chambers, l ﬁsh. 620.

S. 0., Sp¢*n.109.

For that purpose the

value of the roperty in replevln may be inquired into. but the
amount at w iic 1 ll was appraised will be taken to be the value
until the contrary is shown. lb. In an action at the circuit on
an appeal bond. in the penal sum of M50, the sum really due
was less than $100, Judgment was entered forthe penalty of the
bond, and the real debt was to he indoraed on tlieexecution.
Hrld. the ylainlitfwim not entitled to costs. Harrison v. Hill,
3 N. J. L. . 380.
(a) Section wa of the practice act is not modified or sﬂected
by section 277. The latter ractieaiiy only applies to actions in
the circuit or common p ens.

Upon averdict for less than

Ilart v.

Goodman, 13 Vr. 578.

in sn action for libel in this

within the meaning of section %8 of the practice act, is Q36, and
not I500. Meyer v. Arnold, 14 Vr. 144. In n suii commenced in
the su reme court against two defendants, the plaintifff is
entiti
to costs by virtue of this act, where he receives less

than 1200 and more than 1100, provided the defendants do not
riesldg‘ in the same county. Somerset Bank v. Berlt-1nan, 21
'1'.
.
rh) If, after the defendant is in court, the plaintifffﬂiea his
declaration sooner than is l'9%l‘lll'E(l by law, and serves a. copy
on the defendant, he shall ﬁle is plea in thirty days after suc

service. Hrtd. that where defendant is an individual, service of
n copy of the declaration mustbe made upon him personally, if
he has not appeared by attorney. Dock v. Elizabeehlown 00., 5
Vr. 312. “'here one of two joint debtors is served Willi process,
and the other returned " not found,” judgment. cannot he
entered by default within sixty days from the return ofprocess

h_v serving notice of ﬁling the declaration on the defendant who
was served with process, without also serving it upon the other.

I-'|[r.»'if'urtr1r'. ndn. Doughlni, 4 Zllb. 252.
Vr. 633.

Rlehr V. 0Ltbc1"ma1m.20

In ejectment, ii‘ the declaration be filed in season, and

a copy be served, the defendant must plead within thirty days
after service, if the copv have lndorsed u n it the notice
required by section 105 ofthe practice act.

amt v. 01\'eiLl. 15

court, costs cannot heiuciuded in thejudgment. lb. A plaintifff
who sues upon an oﬂicial bond of njustlce and obtslnsajudgment

declaration, under sect on 105 of the practice set, n

in the supreme court for the penalty ($500), and the damages,
assessed are Q36, is not entitled to costs. The amount recovered

tain the ilie~mark of the declaration, nor state the date of the
service. Ih.

1'1: 564.

The notice re uired to be indorsed on theco y of the
not con

2588

Cause to be tried
at next term after
issue joined.

Notice may be
given for day in
term.

PRACTICE.
eight hundred and seventy-four, be and the same hereby are amended so
that the same shall read as follows:
[That every cause shall be tried at the next term after issued joined ; any
cause may he tried at the same term in which issue is joined if there be
time and opportunity to try the same.
'l‘hat notice oi‘ trial may be given for a day in term, ii‘ the cause be not
at issue in season to he noticed for the ﬁrst day of the term, or if issue be
joined therein on or after the ﬁrst day of the term.]

Supplement.
P. L. 1885, p. ‘L5.
What delendant
may plead to
replica! ion.

Approved February 12, 18-£6.

323. SEC. 1. That the defendant in any action may, by leave of the
court or a judge, plead in answer to the replication or subsequent plead
ing of the plaintiﬂ' as many several matters as he shall think necessary for
his defense.
Supplement.

P. L. 1886, p. 28.
Suit against
unincorporated

associations
organized for oer»

lain purposes.

Approved February 16, 1885.

324. SEC. 1. That any unincorporated company or voluntary association,
consisting of seven or more persons, organized for religious, social, benevo
lent, charitable. literary or political purposes, and having a recognized
name, may be sued by such recognized name in any of the courts of this
state in any action a.ﬂ'ecting the common property or the joint rights and

liabilities of such company or association; all process or other papers in
such suit shall be served on the president or treasurer, for the time being,
of such company or association, or on the person authorized to perform the
duties of such offices, and such suit shall have the same force and eifect as

regards the joint rights, property and eiiects oi‘ such company or associa
tion as if it were prosecuted in the names of all the members or associates
in the manner now provided by law; such suit shall not abate by reason
of the death, resignation, removal, withdrawal or legal incapacity of any
oﬁicer or olilcers of such company or association, or by reason of any
change in the membership tliereoi‘. (a) [See Sec. 342. post]
Execution may
Issue on Judgment
as against cor

porations.

325. SEO. 2. That when judgment shall be obtained against the defendant
in such suit, execution may issue thereon in the same manner that execu
tions now issue upon judgments against corporations, and the sheriff or
other oﬂicer may, by virtue of such execution, levy upon and expose to
sale all the common property of such company or association not bylaw
exempt from sale under execution, whether the same be held in the name
of such company or association, or by the trustees thereof in trust for such

company or association.
Action not to oi!’

326. Sec. 3. That nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as

set personal lia

bility of members.

Associations not
51 ven other
powers, &c., of
oorporution&

to prevent any person having any cause of action against any such com
pany or association, for which the members thereof, or any of them, are or
may be personally liable, from proceeding against the members so person
ally liable as heretofore, nor shall any judgment obtained against any such
association or company, by virtue of the provisions oi‘ this act, after execu
tion issued thereon and returned in whole or in part unsatisﬁed, be a bar
to any action to recover the residue thereof against such member or mem
bers as may he personally liable therefore.

327. Sec. 4. That nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as
to give to such companies or associations any of the powers or liabilities"
of corporations, except as herein set out.

(a) Under this act an unincorporated association um be sued
by its recognized name ; hutno provision having been enacted to

authorize voluntary associations to prosecute actions by their
adopted names, it is necessary that the members should sue in

their individual names for any infringement of any alleged
xigptkoggtohe society.
.. ic .
.

Jifaycr v. Journq/rnen Swnccultcrs’ As:o.,

2589

PRACTICE.

Supplement.

Approved March 10,1885.
323. Sac. 1. That it shall not be necessary to ﬁle a bill in equity to
obtain a new trial in an action at law, merely because the term in which

P. L. IP35. D. 71.
New trial may be
granted after ex

piration of term.

the verdict was rendered has expired, but a new trial may be granted by a

court of law after the expiration of the term.
Supplement.

Approved apt-n 2s, mas.

P. L. 1885, p. 301.

329. SEC. 1. That the two hundred and thirty-ﬁrst section of said act
be amended to read as follows, to wit:

'

[That in causes commenced in the supreme court or removed therefrom
to any other court, a justice of the supreme court, in vacation, on applica
tion of the plaintifff or defendant, and upon good cause shown, may grant
a rule to show cause before the said court at the next term why the venue

should not be changed
in the declaration, and
argument of such rule,
of proceedings, as such

to some other county than that in which it is laid
for the taking of depositions to be used on the
which rule shall be granted with or without a stay
justice may, in his discretion, in such order direct._]

Justice may, in
vacation, grant

rule to show
cause why venue
should not be
changed .

[See See. 306, ante.]
Supplement.
Approved February M, 1886.

330. SI-:0. 1. That in any action at law in which a municipal corpora
tion is defendant. it shall not be necessary for such corporation to ﬁle with
its plea or demurrer the affidavit mentioned in the one hundred and four
teenth section of the act to which this is a supplement.

P. L. 1886, p. 88.
Municipal cor
porations not to
ﬁle aﬂidavit with
plea or demuner.

An act to amend section one of the act entitled " Supplement to an
act entitled ‘An act to regulate the practice of courts of law’
[Revision], approved March twenty-seventh, one thousand eight
hundred and seventy-four," which supplement was approved April

twenty-eighth, one thousand eight hundred and eighty-four.
Passed April 6, 1586.

P. L. 1886, p. ﬂ)8,

331. SI-:0. l. That section one of the act of which this act is amendatory
[see Sec. 321, ante] be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows :
[That no writ ofcertiorari shall hereafter be granted or allowed to review
any assessment for taxes, to recover which taxes any sale has been had or
made, or to review the proceedings of any such sale, unless such writ
be granted or allowed within nine years from the date or time of any
such sale.] (a)

Writ of certi0ra.rl
in asnemment for
taxes not allowed
unle applied for
within nine years
from date of tax
sale.

Supplement.
Approved March 23, 1887.

P. L. 1881', p. 50.

332. Sac. 1. [This section amends Sec. 232, ante, which is again
amended by Sec. 348, post]
Supplement.
Approved March 28, 1688.

333. Sac. 1. That where exceptions shall have been taken at the
trial of any cause, in cases where a bill of exceptions may be taken, and
such exceptions shall not have been sealed immediately during the pro
gress of the trial, but the justice of the supreme court before whom such
cause was tried, or thejudge orjudges of the court in which such trial was

P. L. 1888, p. 287.
When bill of
exceptions to be
sealed when time
for preparation is
granted.

had, shall have granted time for the preparation ofa bill of exceptions, it
(a) In the case of Warahuna v. Hunt, is Vr. Z56, involving the
construction of the act of April mm, 1834, of which this act is
amendawry [the arnemlment being simply to change the time
for the limit niz of the allowance of the writ from mmntm
' years), it was held that the act is prospective and not retroac

tive. It is essential that all statutes of limitation which atfect
existing rights and remedies shall allow a reasonable time after
they lake eﬂiect for the commencement oi" suits on such cause
_ofactiou. lb. S. 0., amrmed, 19 V1-. 013.

2590

Proviso.

PRACTICE.
shall be the duty of such justice of the supreme court, or judge or judges,
at any time thereafter, on application of the party or his attorney, alleging
such exceptions, to settle and seal the same, and the same shall be returned
with the writ of error; provided, that the time limited for the bringing of
a writ of error in the cause shall not have expired.

Supplement.
Approved March ‘.5, lass.

P. L. 1889, p. 92-.

334. SEC. 1. That section two hundred and forty-three of the act to

(ante maybe
“"1"! °"°*°°I*

which this is a supplement, be amended to read as follows :
[That when exceptions shall have been taken at the trial of any cause,
in cases where a bill of exceptions may be taken, and the justice of the
supreme court or judge of the circuit court shall die, or he shall cease by
expiration of his term or otherwise to hold office, without having sealed
such exceptions, the cause shall be heard in the court of errors, upon such
exceptions being stated and agreed to in writing by the parties or their

mu“ “g'°°d °°'

attorneys; or if the parties or their attorneys cannot agree upon the bill of

Death ofjudge
wit.hout having

sealed exceptions.

exceptions that were in fact taken, though not sealed, the same shall be
settled and sealed, on ﬁve days’ notice, by any justice of the supreme
court, as the same shall be found by him to have been in fact taken, and
shall be returned with the writ of error.]

Supplement.
Approved May 8, 1889.

P. L. 1889, p. 834.
In actions on con
tra/.-t, affidavit of
merits to be ﬂied
within ten days

from service of
declaration.

335. SEC. 1. That if the plaintifff in any action upon contract, after the
defendant is in court, shall ﬁle his declaration sooner than is required by
law, and shall serve a copy thereof upon the defendant or defendants, per
sonally, the plaintifff shall be entitled to judgment thereon, at the expira
tion of ten days from the date of service, unless the defendant or defendants,
his or their agent or attorney, shall, within said period of ten days, ﬁle
with the clerk of the court in which such action is pending, an affidavit, to
be called an affidavit of merits, that the aiﬁant believes that the said de

fendant or defendants, or some of them, have a just and legal defense to
If afﬂdavit ﬂied,
defendant to
plead or demur
within thirty days.

Notice to be

the action on the merits of the case; and in case such affidavit shall be so

ﬁled, the defendant or defendants ﬁling the same shall have thirty days
from the date of the service of said declaration upon him or them, in which
to plead or demur to the said action, and the plaintiﬂ“, before entering
judgment, shall file an affidavit of such service. (a)

336. SEO. 2. That there shall be indorsed upon or served with every

indorsed upon

copy of declaration served under the provisions of the ﬁrst section of this

copy of declara
tlon.

act, a notice that if the defendant or defendants intend to make a defense

to the action, he or they shall ﬁle an affidavit of merits within ten days
from the (late of such service, and shall ﬁle his plea or demurrer within
thirty days from the date of such service, and that in default of the ﬁling
of such affidavit, plea or demurrer, judgment will be entered by default
against him or them.
(a) Under this act, an nﬂidavit of meritsla required when the
declaration with the proper notice indorsed is served on the

action on a note, an aﬂidavit thstthe note has been paid and dis
charged, without saying to whom, is not an aﬂidavii of merits.

defcndant personally, as well as when the same is so served

J0. When one of two oint debtors has been served with sum
mons and both have
n served with a declaration and a

after the defendant is in court. Lmt/man @ 00. v. Jlope Manqrg.
6b.. 25 l'r. 70. The aﬂldavit of merits. must in Ill such cases, be
ﬂied within ten days after the service ofthe declaration and
notice. Io. Service of the declaration and notice upon the
secretary of I co
rate defendant is not service upon the
defendant personal y. lb. An nfﬂdsvlt of merits, stat ng that
the defendant has a good and substantial defense instead of " a
Just and legal” defense is insuﬂicient. Woodruy v. Mcéiarlnle,
12 N. J. L. J. 884. A court has no authority to extend the time
within which the lfhdavit ofmerlts may be ﬂied. Ib. The act
does not require that the defendant shall subscribe to the aiTi
dsvit of merits, but that it shsil be ﬂied. The certiﬁcate as to
the subscﬁption is surpiusafe ; as to the mskin ofthe n.i‘i‘idavit
it is presumptive] eoncins ve. Wm Dyke v. liphnnt, 13 N. J.’
L. J. 45. The ve iimtion of a plea. according to the statute is
not an slﬂdavit of merits within the meaning of this act, and if
the statutory notice has been served, ajudgment may be entered,
although n pies duly sworn to is ﬂied within ten days. lb. In an

notice to plead within ten days in defhuit of an smdavit of

merits an

within thirty days of a default ofn. plea, and both

join in ﬁling an nﬁidavit of merits, but ﬁle no plea within thirty
days,_iudgrnent may be entered against both at the expiration

of thirty days. JIrJi{urt1~ie v. Doughtm. 4 Mb. 52, and Slehr v.
OlIbc~r1nn'nn,ﬂ)
633, distinguished.
Leonard
v. Let-mgard,
18 i
N.
J. L. J. 148. AYr.
defendant
who falls to ﬂle
an aﬂldavit
ofmerits
within ten days, fails to

rform n condition upon which his

right to plead depends. I pon such failure the plnlntiﬂ‘ has the
right to enter judgment before the close of the next. ensuing
term of court.

Upon his failure to enter udgment before or

during the term next after the defendant's efauil, he can only
enter Judgment after ruling the defendant to plead. Krim v.
Elm-,13 A. J. L. J. 289. The court has no power to strike out an
aﬂidsvit of merits and order udgment on plaintifffs affidavit
showing that there is no de ense to the suit. McKnight v.
Brrmofnc, 14 N. J. L. J. 204.

PRACTICE.

2591

337. SEO. 3. That the copy of declaration mentioned in the foregoing
section of this act, may be served on the defendant or dei'endants at the
time of the service of the summons as now provided by law, and if served
by" the sheriff, with the summons, no other or greater fee shall be allowed
to the sheriff therefore than is now allowed by law therefore. (a)

338. SEC. 4. That all acts inconsistent herewith shall be and hereby are

Copy of declara
tion may be

served at the
time of the
service of the
summons.
Repeaier.

repealed.
A supplement to an act entitled “An act regulating the practice of
the courts of law," approved March twenty-seventh, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-four, which supplement was approved
March twenty-second, one thousand eight hundred and eighty-one.
Approved May 9, 1889.

P. L. I889, p. -I23.

339. SEO. 1. That section thirteen of an act entitled “ An act regulating
the practice of the courts of law," approved March twenty-seventh,one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-four, which supplement was approved
March twenty-second, one thousand eight hundred and eighty-one see
Sec. 312, ante, which in the Revised Supplement, p. 810, was Sec. 13 ,is
hereby amended so as to read as follows:
[That when a sole defendant, or one or more of several defendants,
against whom a judgment has been recovered, has died or shall die after
judgment and before execution issued, or after execution issued, and the
judgment remains in whole or in part unsatisﬁed, and such deceased
defendant or defendants shall not have leﬂ‘. a last will and testament. and
no letters of administration shall have been granted upon such deceased
party or parties‘ estate within six months after the death of such party or
parties, execution may be sued out in the original title of the cause against
the real estate and personal property of such deceased party or parties as
if such death or deaths had not occurred; provided, that ten days’ notice
of such application shall be given to the heirs or legal representatives of
such deceased defendant or defendants in such manner as the court may
order.]

When execution
may be sued out
against real and
personal estate of
deceased party.

Proviso.

Amendatory act.
Approved March 4, i890.

340. SEC. 1. That section nineteen of the act to which this is amenda
tory be and the same is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
[That all bills, bonds and other writing, whether sealed or not, contain
ing any agreement for the payment of money, and all contracts for the
sale and conveyance of any real estate, and all judgments and decrees re
covered in any of the courts of this state or in any other state or territory
of the United States or of the District of Columbia, and all other choses in
action arising on contracts shall be assignable at law, and the assignee or

P. L. 1890, p. 24'.

Assignee of bills
and writings may
sue in his own
name, allowing.
set-oils, &c.

assignees may sue thereon in his, her or their own name, but in such suit
there shall be allowed all just set-offs, discounts and defenses not only

against the plaintifff, but also against the assignor or assignors before notice
of such assignment shall be given to the defendant] (b)
(a) To lake advantage of this sci. the service of the declaration
with the summons under this section must be
rsonal. The
Ompln Iiatl Lumber Cb. v. Chmp.12 N. J. L.

. 267.

An aﬂ‘l

davit of the service of the declaration under this section must be
ﬂied. Woodn4[ V. lifcﬂrlrigle, 12 N. .7. L. J. 384.
(D) A bond with a warrant to confessjudgment maybeas
signed. Reed v. Balnbrldye, 1 Soulh. ‘$51. The statute for
merly included only obligations by which one party binds him
self to pay money to another, and did not apply to contracts of

indemnity cases and other agreements where either party was
bound to perform otherdistinct and independent acts. or where
the payment of money by one party, depended upon the per

fnrrnnnce of some act by the other. Rurkman v. Outwatzr, 4
Dutch. 572. Richardson v. Beaumont, Spen. 578. Bond for
prison limits cannot be assigned before breach. 7‘un|'.\0n v.
Orcuner, 2 South. "498. One of several obligees in a bond, may
not assign it, nor may he do so, in the names ofhimselfand oo
obligees, unless specially authorized to do so. Sltvem v. Bmmra,
1 Har. 16. 7ier1-it v. C’!-nip, April, 1825. One partner may assign

a bond given to the partnership. Galway v. Fullerton, 2 C‘. E2
Gr. 389. The assignee of the assured in apolicy of fire insur

ance may sue thereon in his own name. Marts v. Uurnbcrlami
In-r. 6b., 15 Vr. 478. The assignee's suit must be of the same
style as that of the assured should have been if there had been
no assignment. Ib. A check is not an assignment by the
drawer to the
yee of n debt or chose in Action under this sec
tion, which w ll authorize the holder or assignee to sue in his
own name, thereforee the payee ofacheck has no right ofactlon
for its dishonor against the banker on whom it is drawn. Crepe

linq v. Bloormbury Nat. Bank, l7 Vr. 259.

This act of i890 does

not authorize a person to whom ajud ment has previously been
assigned, to bring suit u
n the ju gment in his own name.
Lydzcker v. Babcock, 26 r. 394. The nineteenth section of the
practice act as amended by this act of I890, does not make as
signable a
rt of a contract chose in action or other matter
covered by is terms, so that the assignee of such art may sue
thereon in his own name at law, at least without re consent of
the other contracting party. om v. Adana, 27 Vr. 88. A chose
in action accruing to a partnership from atransaction in the

ordinary course of its business may be transferred by a single
member of the ﬁrm, and the assignee may sue thereon in his
own name. Gerli v. Poldebard SW: Manufg. 6b., 28 Vr. 432.

A2592
PRACTICE.

Amendatory act.
P. L. 1290, p. 210.

Approved April T, 1800.

341. S1-10.1. That section one hundred and ﬁfty-ﬁve of an act entitled

Written inter
rogatories may
be served on
opposite party.

“An act to regulate the practice of courts of law” [Revision], approved
March twenty-seventh, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four, be
amended so as to read as follows:
['l‘hat after an action at law heretofore or hereafter commenced, is at
issue, either party may serve upon the opposite party, whether such party
be a natural person or body corporate, written interrogatories upon any

matter material -to the issue, and the same shall be answered in writing,
under oath, and the answer served upon the party proposing the interroga
tories in ﬁﬂzeen days after their service, and the answer shall be strictly

responsive to the interrogatories proposed, and in the case of a body cor
porate, it shall be under the oath of such of the officers, agents or employes
of the corporation as have personal knowledge of the facts or custody of
the books, records or papers of said corporation, a discovery of which is
sought; and the court may by an attachment for contempt, a suppression
of the defense, a stay of the proceedings, or otherwise, compel an answer
thereto, and such answer shall be evidence in the action if offered as such
Proviso.

by the party proposing the interrogatories, but not otherwise; provided,
however, that the court may, upon good cause shown and upon two days’
notice to the other party, order any of said interrogatories to be stricken out
or amended, or new ones to be added, or give further time for answering the

same, or order the answer to be amended] (a)

[See Sec. 310, ante.]

Supplement.
Approved May ‘:3, 1890.

P. L. 1890, p. 353.
Action may be
brought against
unincorporated

company or asso
ciation united for
business purposes.
Process may be
served upon the

president, oﬂlcer
or agent.

Abatement.

Execution may

342. S1-:0. 1. That any unincorporated company, stock company or
association consisting of two or more persons, united together for business
purposes, and having a recognized name, may be sued by such recognized
name in any of the courts of this state in any action aﬁ'ecting the common
property or the joint rights and liabilities of such company or association;
all process or other papers in such suit shall be served on the president
or on any officer for the time being of such company or association, or on
the agent or manager of such company or association, or upon any person
being in charge of the business of such company or association; and such
suit shall have the same force and effect as regards the joint rights, prop
erty and effects of such company or association, as if it were prosecuted in
the names of all the members or associates in the manner provided by
law; such suit shall not abate by reason of the death, resignation, removal,
withdrawal or legal incapacity of any oﬂicer or oﬂicers of such company or
association, or by reason of any change in the membership thereof. [See
Sec. 324, ante.]
343. SEO. 2. That when judgment shall be obtained against the defend

issue as against
corporations.

ant in such suit, execution may issue thereon in the same manner that
executions now issue upon judgments against corporations; and the shei-iii‘
or other officer may, by virtue of such execution, levy upon and expose

to sale all the common property of such company or association, not by
law exempt from sale under execution, whether the same be held in the
name of such company or association, or by the directors, stockholders or
trustees thereof, in trust for such company or association.
Personal liability

of members not
Inﬂected.

344. SEO. 3. That nothing in this act contained shall be so construed
as to prevent any person having any cause of action against any such com

pany or association,for which the members thereof, or any of them, are
or may be personally liable, from proceeding against the members so per
sonally liable as heretofore; nor shall any judgment obtained against any
(a ) Where interrogatories served by aparty are not answered
within the time
uired by iaw,.t.he s.rty serving them is not
e answer; but i he receives the answer
bound to receive
wltimut objection after the time has expired, and crmits the
case to proceed to trial, he cannot afterwards ob ect on that

ground. Vozrrhcex v. Jones, 5 Dutch. 271. If a party fails to
answer interrogatories served on him within the time requirvd
li;yhial\;_', iggoes not prevent him from beingawitness in hisown
B

tl

.

.

PRACTICE.

.

2593

such association or company by virtue of the provisions of this act, after
execution issued thereon, and returned, in whole or in part, unsatisﬁed,
be a bar to any action to recover the residue thereof against such member
or members as may be personally liable therefore.
345. SEC. 4. That nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as
to give such companies or associations any of the powers or liabilities of
corporations,except as herein set out.

Unsatisﬁed
judgment not a

bar to action to
recover residue.
No

owers or

iiab lities of’ cob
porations given
except as herein

set out.

Supplement.
Approved June 10, 1890.

346. SEC. 1. That hereafter the compensation to be paid to any sergeant
at-arins heretofore or hereafter appointed in accordance with the provisions
of the act to which this is a supplement, shall be the same as is now paid to
constables in attendance upon the courts, to be paid by the county collector
of the county on the certiﬁcate of the presiding judge; provided, however,
that he shall not, for the same time, receive a per diem compensation as a
constable or as a crier of the courts in the county ; and pr0vided,fu1'ther,
that this act shall only apply to counties of the second class.

347. SEC. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the terms

P. L. i890, p. 432
Compensation of
sergeant-at-arms.

Proviso.

Proviso.

Repeater.

of this act, be and the same are hereby repealed.

Supplement.
Approved June i9_, 1800.

P. L. 18%, p. 487.

348. SEC. 1. That section two hundred and thirty-two of the act to
which this act is a supplement [see Secs. 232 and 332, ante], be and said
section two hundred and thirty-two is hereby amended so that henceforth
said section shall be and read as follows, to wit:

[That if the plaintifff reside out of this state he shall, if required at any
time before the trial of the case is actually entered upon, give bond to the
defendant in one hundred dollars, with sufficient sureties, being free
holders and residents in this state, with condition to prosecute his action
with effect and to pay costs if he discontinue, be non-suited or a judgment
pass against him; which bond shall be ﬁled in the cierk’s office of the
court in which such action is pending.] (a)

Non-resident
plsintiﬂ’ to give

security for costs
by bond.

Bond ﬂied.

be required, on motion and sflidavlt to that effect, to give

(rt) A non-resident prosecutor ofnn administration bond shall

give security for costs, if required. (ll!l'(Y'IllIl' v. .S'nr:I|!.l, hit.
°55l. The right of n defendant in equity to reqniie from the

security for costs, and proceedings will be slay:-ti till such

security be given.

Srull v. Altltiy/mu, it-1-.,8 In. 430

Where

the |.Illlll1tiﬂl4 ta foreign corporation) filed their declaration

complainant, who is resident. nbroad,security for costs, does not.
rest alone on the provisions of the statute.
t is an ancient and

iu season, the court refused an nppiicntloll to require tin-In
to file security for costs made by the tlefemiants at the term
next alter the return ofthe writ, who Ufrt!l‘!'(| no excuse for
neglecting to make an earlier uppiltzttluu, nor any affidavit
of merits. llfrclumlcr Bunk v. uodwm, 2 Gr. 489. The court

Irell-established rule that if the complainant is resident abroad,
the court, on the application ofthe riefendant, will order him to
give security for costs, and in the meantime will direct all ro
ceedlugs to be stayed. Newman v. Lmulrine l .irlc(iurl. 291.
‘or
is it necessary that the complainant should reside out of the

will

state st the time of filing his bill, to entltlethe defendantto
the order. it will be granted if the complainant goes abroad
to reside after the commencement of the suit. lb. if, alter
knowledge ofthe non-residence, defendant takes suy step in the

that the plaintifffs give security for costs, though the plain
nus are an insolvent and irresponsible corporation. Slate
Bank v. L\nnJ, ‘l Hr. £76. A corporation created by a law
of this state, and for iurposes to be married on within its

lb.

Rule to stay Eroceedin

till security for costs is filed. refused when some o t eplainti
were non-residents. Anmiymoiu, Plan. "s56. The defendant in
ment will not be compelled to enter security for costs on
t e ground that he had removed out of the state after entc-rig
into the common rule. Dmv. Imtr¢,i IML475. Infhut plnlntl
residing in the state are not required to give security. Lblhml
Ids. llloorelumsr, l Zoo. 3-‘i5. Where an infant plaintifff residing
out of this state sues by a ))1'01‘hl'.lN amt residingiu the state,
the defendant by the statute is entitled to security for costs.

lb.

Where the proclvin mnl is irresponsible, the court
order security or appoint one responsible. ll». Where
the defendant was unable to find who or where the plaintifff‘
is, or his place of residence, the court granted s rule that
the plniutl

272

file security for cosui. Alulfortlv. Grsclniuf, l Hm-.

t

has no pmpert ' within the state,

respecting security for costs.

Andrews, 8 Hui. 177.

Ilvmm. (nut

of the statute
. J. Boul (D. v.

The court. will not impose upon a

party applying for s commission to examine witnesses out
of the state, the terms of payment oi‘ costs tn his udversary,

for security for costs in ejecimenl. may begrnnted efterissue
Den v. Wilson, 2 -Svmlh. ‘Cell.

although

not a non-resident within the mean n

When the defendant's affidavit or an applica

tion for security fails to show clearly that the de|‘t-ndrmt did
not know of the complainant’: removal before taltiu the last
step in the muse, the application will be denied.
b. Rule
joined.

annex to a rule for n trial at bar, the condition

urisdictlon,

(muse before applying for the order, he thereby waives security

for costs.

not

Roumape V. M’rcI|anlc.|' Ina. 01., 7 Hnl. 95. A plaintifff who
resides in this state, and brings s cnﬂorari to remove a
Judgment rendered against him in an action of forcible
entry and detaluer, will not be required to ﬂle security for
costs, though it is proved that he is unable to pay tiiecosts
if the decision be sgninsl. him. Smilh v. Willm-nmm, 6 Hal.
Sis. This court will not order the plaintifffs to ive security for
costs upon the ground that but one of the la ntiffs residesin
this state, sud that be had, several years be ore the commence

ment of the suit, taken the benefit of the insolvent law. Den v.
Jloqna, 5 Hal. I92. Stale Bunk v. Evans, ‘Z Gr. ‘liltt, 300. The aﬂ
davit of uon~residence, to obtain security for costs, may be
made by s party in the cause.

May v. M01-lon,3 Hui. 177.

The

prosecutor in n writ of hubau corpus need not. enter security.
Slate v. Lyon, Cbaz 403.

Plaiutlﬂb in Cr1‘li0r¢l1't, residing out of the state, will

163

PRACTICE.

2594

Supplement.
Approved April 16, 1801.

P. L. 1891, p. -I77.
If plnimiﬂ is
ignorant of name

of defendant, he
may designate

him in the sum
mons by a ﬁctitious

name.

349. S1-:0. 1. That when the plaintifff is ignorant of the name or part of
the name of a defendant, he may designate that defendant in the sum
mons and in other process or proceedings in the action by a ﬁctitious name
or by as much of the name as is known, adding a description identifying
or tending to identify such defendant, and the person intended shall be
thereupon regarded as a defendant in the action, and as suﬂiciently de
scribed therein, for all purposes, including service of the summons as here
after prescribed.

When name
becomes known,
proceedings

already taken to
be amended.

Summons, how

served, and pub
llmlion.

350. SEC. 2. That when the name or the remainder of the name of the
person becomes known, an order must be made by the court upon such
notice and such terms as it prescribes. that the proceedings already taken
be deemed amended by the insertion of the true name in place of the ﬁc
titious name or part of a name, and that all subsequent proceedings be
taken under the true name.

351. SEO. 3. That the summons in such case may be served as pre
scribed in sections forty-nine and ﬁfty of the act to which this is a supple
ment, or, in case of defendant’s residence not being known, by publica
tion of a copy of the summons in some newspaper published at or near
the place where the cause is triable, at least once a week, for the space of
three weeks consecutively, and upon due proof being made to the court of
said publication, the defendant therein intended to be designated shall be
considered to be in court; the costs of said publication to be reckoned in

To extend to
ractice in courts
or trial of small
causes.
Repeaier.

the taxed bill of costs in the cause.

352. SEO. 4. That the provisions of this supplement shall extend to the
practice of the courts for the trial of small causes.

353. Sac. 5. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this sup
plement be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act shall take
effect immediately.
Supplement.

P. L. I891, p. 500.
Clrcuit court
Judges in countiu
of the ﬁrst class
may ﬁx salary of
stenographers.

Approved April ls, 1:591.

354. SEO. 1. That the circuit court judge in counties of the ﬁrst class in
this state may in his discretion ﬁx the compensation of the court stenc
grapher at an annual salary in lieu of a per diem for attendance upon the
courts of the county, which shall be paid by the collector of the county as
the said judge shall order.
Supplement.

P. L. 1892, p. 313.
Clerks of circuit
courts to sign
posteas when
the Judge who

tried the case has
died.

Approved March 28, 1892.

355. SEO. 1. That when any cause pending in the supreme court of this
state shall have been heretofore or shall be hereafter tried before one of the

justices of the said supreme court at a circuit court and said justice shall have
died, or shall die after such trial but before signing the postea, it shall and
may be lawful for the supreme court to order judgment to be entered in
accordance with the proceedings in said circuit court, on the production to
them of the circuit record with the postea annexed, signed by the clerk of
the said circuit court and under the seal of the said circuit court; which
certiﬁcation it shall be the duty of the clerk of said circuit court to make,
and in such case any and all questions as to the form of the postea shall
be determined by the said supreme court and such postea may be amended
as to matter of form by said court.

Supplement.
P. L. 1893, p. Z90.

Approved March 1-1, 1893.

356. Sac. 1. [Amended by Secs. 358 and 364, post.]

2595

PRACTICE.

Supplement.
P. L. 1694, p. 120.

Approved April 24, 1994.

When affidavit oi
merits ﬂied, adi

357. SEC. 1. That if in any action upon contract the defendant shall
ﬁle with the clerk of the court in which such action is pending an “aili
davit of merits,” according to the terms of the supplement to the act to
regulate the practice of courts of law, approved May third, one thousand
eight hundred and eighty-nine, it shall not be necessary for such defendant
to ﬁle with his plea or demurrer the aﬁldavit mentioned in the one hundred

davit to plea or

demurrer not
IIBQBGBPY.

and fourteenth section of the act to which this is a supplement.
An act to amend an act entitled “A supplement to an act entitled
‘An act to regulate the practice in courts of law,’ approved March
twenty-seventh, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-four,"
which said supplement was approved March fourteenth, one thou

sand eight hundred and ninety-three.
P. L. 1894, p. 139

Approved April 25, 1894.

358. FEC. 1. [This section, amcmiilig Sec. 356. mile, is amended by Sec.
364, pa.»-L]

'

Supplement to an act entitled “ An act to regulate the practice of the
courts of law," approved April ﬁfteenth, one thousand eight hun
dred and forty-six.
Approved March 3; lm.

359. SEC. 1.
360. S1-:0. 2.

P. L. i853, p. 243

Amended by Sec. 362, post.

Amended by Sec. 363, post.

A supplement to an act entitled “An act to regulate the practice of
courts of law" [Revision], approved March twenty-seventh, one

thousand eight hundred and seventy-four.
Approved May D, 1894.

361. Sac. l. That whenever it shall appear by the aﬁidavit of any
person that he is a creditor of any testator or intestate, and that he has a
claim or demand, arising on contract, against the estate of such testator or‘
intestate, and that, after diligent and careful inquiry therefore, made as

required in case of absent defendants in chancery, he has been unable to‘
ascertain who are all the heirs and devisees of such testator or intestate,
whether the heirs, devisees or personal representatives of such testator or

P. L. I894, p. Ml.
Action, how
brought against

-.‘

heirs and devisees
when creditor
unable to ascertain
who are all the
heirs and devisees
0|‘ whether all

alive or dead, dtc. »

intestate, or any one or more of them, is still alive, or, if known or believed

to be dead, has been unable to ascertain the names and residences of his or
their heirs, devisees or personal representatives, or of such of them as are
proper parties defendant in an action to be brought against the heirs and
devisees of such testator or intestate, it shall be lawful for the supreme
court, or a justice thereof, in term time or vacation, to make an order per-'

mitting such creditor to bring an action at law against all such parties as
are known and against the unknown-heirs, devisees or personal representa
tives of such testator or intestate as defendants, naming such of them as
are known and designating in the summons and other proceedings such of.
them as are unknown as unknown heirs, devisees or personal representa
tives of such testator or intestate, or of any heir or heirs, devises or devisees
or personal representatives of an heir or heirs, devisee or devisees or per
sonal representative of the original debtor; and upon ﬁling such afﬁdavit Summons, how
and order it shall be lawful for such creditor to cause a-writ or writs of

issued.

summons to issue against such of the heirs, devisees or personal representa
tives‘ of the original debtor as are known, and against such of them as are
unknown, or against the heirs, devisees or personal representatives of énch
of them as are dead, orbelieved to be ‘dead, and whose names are unknown,
by the designation of unknown heirs, devisees or personal representatives
of such original debtor, or of such of his heirs, devisees or personal repre
,,\.".‘.
sentatives as are unknown or believed to be dead.
~

:‘

1-.

Q

2596

PRACTICE.

362. SI-:0. 2. That section one of the act entitled“ A supplement to an
act entitled ‘ An act to regulate the practice of the courts of law,’ ” which
supplement was approved March third, one thousand eight hundred and
ﬁfty-three [see Sec. 359, ante], be and the same is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Proceedings in
case of non~resl
danoe of heirs and
devisees.

[That when the heirs or devisees of land situated within this state, or

any of them, whether known or unknown, or, if any one or more of them
are known or believed to be dead, their heirs, devisees or personal repre
sentatives, whether known or unknown, against whom a summons shall

issue in any suit against such heirs or devisees, whether known or unknown,
or the heirs, devisees or personal representatives of such of them as are known
or believed to be dead, shall reside out of this state, or cannot be found

within the same in order to be served with such writ, the sheriff of the county
in which the said land or any part thereof, may lie shall so return, and upon
an aﬁidavit being made to the satisfaction of the court out of which said
summons issued, or of any judge thereof in vacation, showing the residence,
as nearly as may be, of any such defendants as may be known,-.1. rule of
court shall be made, signed by the judge if done in vacation, and ﬁled,
that the defendants not served with process, whether in such summons

designated by name or as heirs, devisees or personal representatives of the
original debtor, or of such of his heirs, devisees or personal representatives
as are unknown or believed to be dead, do appear to the said writ on or
before a certain day, to be prescribed by said court or judge, not less than

one nor more than three months from the time of making such rule, a copy
of which rule shall, within ten days thereafter, be served on each of such
defendants not served with process, or published within the same time in

Judgnienl by

detault may be
entered against
defendants who
do not appear.

Defendants who
appear shall plead
wlthln time
limited.

some newspaper published in the county wherein the said land lies, and
continued therein for four weeks successively, at least once in each week;
if there be no such newspaper, or if such land lies in two or more counties,
such publication shall be in such newspapers as may be directed by said
court or judge in such rule.]
363. SEO. 3. That section two of the aforesaid act [ see Sec. 360, ante]
be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows :
[That if the defendant or defendants not served with process, or one or
more of them, do not appear within the time limited by the rule aforesaid,
upon due proof of the service or publication of such rule being ﬁled, judg
ment by default shall be rendered against him, her or them, provided a
declaration shall have been duly ﬁled in such suit, which said judgment
may be entered in term time or vacation, and if the said defendant or de
fendants, heirs, devisees or personal representatives of such original debtor,
or of such of his heirs, devisees or personal representatives as are unknown
or believed to be dead, or one or more of them, do appear and enter an
appearance in person, or by attorney, in the clerk’s book, he, she or they
shall plead to the declaration of the plaintifff within thirty days from the
expiration of the time limited by the said rule, or within such further time
as may be granted for that purpose by the court or a judge thereof, and on
failure thereof judgment by default may be entered in term time or in vaca
tion, and a writ or writs of execution issue thereon.] (a)
An act to amend an act entitled “An act to amend an act entitled ‘A
supplement to an act entitled “An act to regulate the practice in
courts of law," approved March twenty-seventh, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-four,’ which said supplement was ap
proved March fourteenth, one thousand eight hundred and ninety
three," and which act to amend was approved April twenty-ﬁfth,
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-four.
Approved March 28, 1&5.

P. L. 1896, p. 717$

364. SEC. 1. That section one of the act to which this is an amendment
[see Secs. 356 and 358, ante], be and the same is hereby amended to read
as follows :
(a)|See Stillwell v, Ibmlimon, 7 Vr. 369.

2597

PRACTICE.
[That where any action or suit has heretofore been commenced, or shall
hereafter be commenced, in any court of law of this state, under or by virtue
of any statute or at common law, and said action or suit has been or shall
hereafter be dismissed, abated, non-suited, or a judgment shall have been
or shall be entered against the defendant or defendants, therein, by reason
of the failure of the attorney or attorneys in such action or suit to ﬁle any
pleading within the time limited by law, or by reason of the ﬁling by such
attorney or attorneys of an insutiicient or improper pleading, it shall be the
duty of said court or of any judge thereof to revive and reinstate said action
or suit or to open said judgment and permit a proper and suﬂicient plead
ing to be ﬁled upon such terms as may seem to said court or judge to be
equitable and just, if in the opinion of said court or judge the failure to ﬁle
said pleading, or the ﬁling of said insufficient or improper pleading, was
due to the neglect, fault, error or mistake of said attorney or attorneys, and
injury or wrong has or may result to the defendant or defendants, by reason

How to revive
and reinstate
action or suit,

when failure to
ﬂie pleadings, &c.,
is caused by
neglect, &n., of
atwrney.

of such neglect, fault, error or mistake ; provided, however, that no action or

suit which has been or shall be dismissed,abated, non-suited, or in which
a judgment shall have been or shall be entered against the defendant or
defendants therein, for the reason above stated, shall be revived, reinstated

or opened, unless application for that purpose be made within one year from
the date of such dismissal, abatement, non-suit or judgment.]

365. Sac. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act

Repeaier.

be and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act shall take eﬂ'ect
immediately .

A supplement to the act entitled " An act to regulate the practice of
the courts of law," approved April ﬁfteenth, eighteen hundred and
forty-six.
Approved March H, 1873.

366. Ssc. l. That in any and every case where proceedings have been
or shall be taken by any private corporation authorized to exercise or use
the right or power of eminent domain, to exercise or employ that right or
power to acquire any lands, tenements, hereditaments, real estate, or any
other property for the use oi’ such corporation, and an appeal has been or
shall be taken from the award of commissioners, and notice is required by
the charter of such corporation to be given of the presentation of the peti
tion or of the making of the application to the appellate court to enter an
appeal, ﬁve days’ notice of the presentation of such appeal, or of the
making of such application, served upon the opposite party, in case of an
individual, personally, or left at his or her usual place of abode, or in case
of a corporation, by delivering the same to the president, secretary or
treasurer thereof, personally, or leaving the same at the principal oﬂice of
the company with some person employed in said oﬂice, shall be suriicient
notice and suﬂicient service thereof.

P. L. I873, p. 51.
Notice ofappeai
by private

corporations,
how made.

Repealer.

XX. Miscellaneous acts.
An act for the recovery of damages in writs of assize and
real actions.
Passed March 5, 1795.

367. SEC. l. That in all assizes, if judgment be given for the plaintifff,
he or she shall recover his or her damages; and in all assizes of novel
disseisin and writs of entry the demandants, if they recover the tenements

demanded, shall also recover their damages against the disseisors; and if
the disseisors alien the land, and have not whereof the damages may be
levied, they to whose hands such tenements shall come shall be charged
with the damages, so that every one shall answer for his or her time; and

further, that in all writs and actions possessory, whereby lands or tene
ments are demanded, damages shall be recovered as aforesaid.

REV. 183.
11.8.98-I.
Plalntiﬂ to
recover damages
in assizea, die.

2598

Rev. 393.

PRACTICE.

An act to assist poor persons in the prosecution of their suits.

3- 5- 991Passed January 28, 1799.

Preamble.

Poornerwvsw
;‘:',‘,‘8°'°°°“
'

'f,‘1’;":1““‘)‘l’“;‘:';',g“&c_
’

g°‘°f";‘o:f:‘°d
PM

‘ "

Wnsams, Justice ought to be administered to such poor persons as are
not of ability to sue according to law for the redress of injuries and wrongs,
or the recovery of their demands and rights; thereforee,
368. SEO. 1. That every such poor person as shall have cause of action
against any person in this state, shall have, at the discretion of the court,
before which he or she would sue, a writ or other process, according to the
nature of his or her case, without paying for the same.

369. SEC. 2. That the said court shall, at their discretion, assign to such
poor person counsel, learned in the law, attorneys and other oﬂicers,
requisite to prosecute the said action, who shall perform their respective
duties therein without fee or reward. (a)

370. SEO. 3. That such poor person, being plaintifff or complainant in
any such action, shall not be compelled to pay costs.

An act relating to the proceeds of real estate sold or taken bylaw.
P. L. 1858, p. 459.

Diwibulieﬂ of
gmﬁpgﬁzm
,,,,,,,,,

Approved March 18, 1858.

371. SEO. 1. That whenever any lands, tenements, hereditaments, or real
estate, shall be sold or taken upon compensation, pursuant to any compe
tent judicial authority, or any law of this state, and the proceeds of such
sale or the compensation for such taking, shall be paid into any court of
this state, pursuant to such authority or law, such court shall order and
direct such payment or payments, in gross, to be made out of such pro
ceeds, as compensation to such person or persons as shall be entitled to
any vested, certain and absolute estate or interest, less than the fee-simple,
of, in, and to such lands, tenements, hereditaments and real estate, or any
part thereof, as such court shall deem a just and reasonable satisfaction for
such estate or interest, and as the person so entitled shall consent, in writ
ing, to accept in lieu thereof; but in case any such person shall fail to give
such consent, before the making of the order for the distribution of such
proceeds or compensation, then such court shall ascertain and determine
what proportion of such proceeds or compensation will be just and reason
able to be reserved for the beneﬁt of such person, and shall order the same
to be put out at interest on sufficient security of real estate, or invested in
public stock, under the direction and control of such court, for the beneﬁt
of such person. (b)
Supplement.

P. L. lass, p. ‘Z88.

When Proceeds

Approved April zo, 1&5.

372. SEO. 1. That whenever any lands, tenements, hereditaments or real

‘,:::;",“‘e:“;‘y‘°,'::’v‘“ estate have heretofore been or shall hereafter be sold or taken upon com
,,,,,,,,,e ,,,,,,,,,,,,, pensation pursuant to any competent judicial authority or any law of this
courtofchancery. state, and the proceeds of such sale or the compensation for such taking

have been or shall be paid into any court of this state other than the court
of chancery, pursuant to such authority or law, and it shall appear to said
court wherein the same have been or shall be paid that the interests of any
person or persons entitled thereto, or any part thereof, require or willbe
substantially promoted by the payment into the court of chancery of so
much or such proportion of said proceeds or compensation as said court
wherein said money is paid may determine belong to or should be reserved
for the beneﬁt of such person, it shall be lawful for such court to order the
same paid into the said court of chancery, to be thence disposed of as

ordered and directed by said court of chancery.
(al The fact that counsel has been so assigned will not dehar
him from enforcing an agreement for com nsatlon,dependent
upon success, in establishing the right, y which success the
suitor will be provided with the means of remuneration. IIaasell v. Van Houlen, 12 Stew. 105.

.13.

(b) The power to make the distribution is not derived tom
the statute alone. It arises. independently of it. from lb!
necessities of the administration of justice, and is inherent in
the court of chancery. Plaa v. Bright, 4 Stew. 87.

PRACTICE.

2599

373. S1-:0. 2. That upon ﬁling said order in said court of chancery and
payment of said money thereunder, the said person or persons shall. so far
as relates to such property or money and its income, be considered a ward
of the court of chancery.
374. SEC. 3. That it shall be lawful for said court of chancery and all
other courts of this state to make such rules, regulations and orders. and
establish such form of practice as shall be necessary and proper to fully

\Vhen person a
ward of court.

Court may make
rules to carry act

into effect.

carry this act into eifect.

375. SEC. 4. That all acts or parts of acts inconsistent with this act be

Bepealsr.

and the same are hereby repealed, and that this act shall be deemed and
taken to be a public act and shall take effect immediately.

An act providing for actions where the defendant is a. non-resident of .

this state and the cause of action is one arising in this state and
denominated local.
Approved Much 19, 1878.

376. Si-:0. 1. That if a summons is issued, in any case, to the sheriff or
coroner of any county where the defendant is a non-resident of this state,
and the cause of action arose in this state, and is one denominated local,
and the sheriﬂ‘ or coroner shall return that the defendant cannot be found
in his county, that any justice of the supreme court may make an order,
upon proper affidavit, that the defendant appear, at a certain day therein

P. L. I878, p. 141.
Proceedings
against non-resi
dent defendants
in local actions.

to be named, not less than one nor more than two months from the (late
of such order, of which order such notice as said justice shall by rule

direct shall, within twenty days thereafter, be served personally on such
defendant, by delivery of a copy thereof to him, either in or out of this
state, or be published in a newspaper, to be designated by said justice,
in the county where the cause of action arose, for at least four weeks suc
cessively, at least once in each week; and in case of such publication, a
copy of such notice shall be mailed to the defendant, prepaid, as directed
by said justice; and in case the defendant shall fail to enter his appear
ance, as directed in said order, said justice may direct that the declaration
be ﬁled, and if the defendant shall not plead thereto within thirty days
after such ﬁling, the court in which such action is brought may, upon such
proofs and evidence as it may require, order judgment to be entered
against him and proceedings thereon taken, the same as if he had been
personally served with process in said action.
377. SEO. 2. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent herewith be and
the same are hereby repealed, and this act shall be a public act and take
eifect immediately.

Repealer.

An act to protect the interests of counties and townships by allow
ing taxpayers, in certain cases, to prosecute suits in their behalf

and to intervene in actions by or against them.
Approved March l0, 1830.

378. SEC. 1. That where any member of the board of chosen freeholders
of any county, or of the township committee of any township, is or may
be interested adversely to such county or township upon any claim orde
mand of such county or township, or where, without good cause, the board
of chosen freeholders of any county, or the township committee of any
township, fail or neglect to prosecute any claim or demand of such county
or township, it shall be lawful for any court in which an action or suit on
such claim or demand is cognizable, to allow any taxpayer or taxpayers of
such county or township (being also resident or residents therein) to insti
tute and prosecute an action or suit upon such claim or demand in the
name of and on behalf of such county or township, if, in the opinion of
the court, the interests of said county or township require or would be
promoted thereby, such order to be made upon such terms as the court

may impose.

P. L. 1880, p. 1-10.
when taxpayer
may institute

action on behalf
of county or
township.

2600
When taxpayers
may intervene

in any action or
suit on behalf of
any township or
county.

Proviso.

PRACTICE.
379. SEO. 2. That in any action or suit brought or to be brought in any
of the courts of this state by or against any county or township in which
the interest of any member of the board of chosen freeholders or oi‘ the
township committee is or may be adverse to the said county or township,
or where other good cause may be shown, it sh-all be lawful for the court,
or a judge thereof, if in the supreme court, to allow any taxpayer or tax
payers of such county or township (being also residents therein) to inter
vene in said suit on behalf of said county or township, if, in the opinion of
the court or judge, the interests of such county or township require or
would be promoted thereby, such intervention to be upon such terms as
the court or judge may impose; provided, however, that this act shall not.
apply to or in any way affect any suit or suits now pending in any of the
courts of this state.
An act deﬁning the duties of clerks of county courts as to the
oﬂicers' returns of writs.
Approved March 81, 1882.

P. L. 1882, p. %
Preamble.

Oﬂicers‘ returns
ofwrits not to be
recorded.

Wnsunas, The practice in nearly all the counties of this state (there
being no act deﬁning the duties of clerks as to it) has been not to record
or enter officers’ returns to writs, but ﬁle them only; thereforee, in order
to deﬁne and make the practice uniform throughout the state,

380. SEC. l. That from and after the passage of this act it shall not be
considered necessary for the clerks aforesaid to record or enter the officers’
return (or inventory) to any writ of execution, attachment, or of any other
writ, but to ﬁle the same only.
An act providing for the review of convictions and judgments
for contempt of court.

P. L. 1884, p. 219.
Review of convic
tion and judg
ments for con
tempt by the
supreme court or

prerogative court.

When petition
on proceedings
to be certiﬁed to
supreme or pre
rogative court.

Court invested
with Jurisdiction
and to give judg
ment.

Bond.

Duty of prose
cutor of pleas.

Approved April 17, 1884.

381. SEC. 1. That hereafter, every summary conviction and judgment by
any court inferior in its jurisdiction to the supreme court,except an orphans’
court, for a contempt against its own dignity, peace or good order, shall be
reviewahlc, both upon the law and the facts, by the supreme court; and
every such conviction and judgment by any orphans’ court shall be review
able in the same way and manner by the prerogative court. (0.)
'
382. SEC. 2. That every such conviction and judgment shall, upon th_e
petition oi‘ the person or persons convicted, signed by.at least two coun~
selors-at-law, be, by the court wherein such conviction is had, immediately
certiﬁed and sent. to the supreme court or the prerogative court, as the case
may require, to which the same shall be certiﬁed and sent, together with the
petition of appeal and all proceedings touching the conviction and judgment,
and which said court shall be invested with jurisdiction and required to re
hear the matter of contempt upon which the conviction was founded, both
upon the law and upon the facts, which shall be inquired into and ascer
tained by depositions or in such other way or manner as the court above
shall direct; and it shall be required to give such judgment in the premises
as to it shall seem to be lawful and just under all the circumstances of the
case, to be enforced in such way and manner as it shall order and direct;
and that, upon the person appealing giving to the clerk of the court in which
such conviction shall take place a good and suﬁicient bond for the due per
formance of the judgment of the court above, approved by any one of the
justices of the supreme court of this state, the appeal shall suspend thejudg
mcnt and supersede all further proceedings in the court below to enforce the
same until otherwise ordered by the court above; and upon the breach of
the condition of any such bond so given, it shall be the duty of the prose
cutor of the pleas of the county in which it is given to prosecute the same
to effect, in the name of the clerk, and pay the proceeds to the county col
lector, to be distributed by him according to law. '

(a) On appeal from n conviction for contem t under this
statute, the court will not consider the general po icy of punish
ing such contempta as that of which the appellant is
iity. If,
according
the itlaw
and
th;-.djud
lawful
andtojust,
will
befacts,
aﬂlrm
. grin ent appea ed from is
re Clursrlnarl, 20 V1‘.

116.

This act invests the supreme court with jurisdiction to re

hear the matter of contempt, both upon the law and the fn.cLs,
and to give such judgment in the premises as shall to it seem to

be lawful and just under all the circumstances of the case.
Adler v. Tm-nbull & (h.,'.'.8 I/'1'. 84. As to ordinary counse of
practice In matters of contempt, see In -re ('!u'¢’se1nnn, Q) Vr. 142.
Juvlrwn v. Johnson, 22 Vr. 457. Holt’: Clue, 23 Vr. 384.

2601

PRACTICE.

An act to prevent a partner of a president or law judge of any county
in this state from practicing in any of the courts in which the said

judge shall sit or preside.
Approved April ‘Li, 1885.

P. L. 1885, p. 308.

383. SI-:0. 1. That it shall not be lawful for any practicing attorney of 1"l11e“'f“"°1'
riner of law

this state to practice as attorney, counsel, proctor or otherwise in any court

udge in practice

in which any person who may be in partnership with him in the practice
of law shall sit or preside as president or law judge. '

n court where
law udge

384. SEC. 2. That any person violating the provisions of the ﬁrst sec

pres des.

Penalty.

tion of this act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. and shall, for
each offense, be punished by a ﬁne not exceeding one hundred dollars.
An act in relation to service of notice of application to any oourt or
justice or judge thereof, in any proceeding or under any statute of
this state, where no provision of law exists for such notice or the

time or mode of service thereof, and validating notices of such
application heretofore made.

‘

Approved April 18, 1889.

385. SEC. 1. That win-never it is or shall hereafter become necessary,
in any legal proceeding or in any proceeding under any statute of this
state, to give notice of any application to any court or justice or judge
thereof, and no provision is made b_v law for the mode of giving such
notice to the parties interested or entitled thereto, or for the length of time
that said notice shall be served prior to such application, said court, or any
justice or judge thereof, shall have the power and authority, upon ex parte
application, to fix and determine, as said court or justice shall deem proper,
how said notice shall be served, either by personal service in or out of the
state, mailing to the parties at their last-known place of residence, or by
publication in one or more newspapers published either in or out of the
state, for such period of time as said court or justice shall determine ; and
such notice of such application thus given shall be deemed and taken as
due and legal notice of such application.
386. SI-DC. 2. That any such notice as aforesaid heretofore given, served
or published, or hereafter given, served or published, under any order of
any court, or any justice thereof, heretofore or hereafter made, shall be
deemed and taken to be a good and legal notice of any application hereto
fore made to such court or justice.

P. L. 1889, p. 294.
How notice to be
served where no
provision is made
by law for giving
or serving such

notice.

Notice hereto
fore given under
order of court
legalized.

An act concerning the practice of law in the courts of New Jersey.
Approved May 9, i889.

38']. Sac. l. That no person, except in his own case or in the case of an
infant, shall be permitted to appear and prosecute or defend any action in
any court of this state, unless he is a licensed attorney-at-law of the
supreme court of this state, who shall be under the direction of the court
in which he acts; provided, that nothing in this act shall apply to actions
before justices of the peace.

P. L. 1889, p. 423.
No person, exoe t

in his own behs f
or in the case of
an infant, to
appear and rose

cute any act on,
unless he is a
licensed attorney.

Proviso.

An act to regulate the practice of courts of law.
Approved March 10, 1893.

388. SEC. l. [Amended by Sec. 394,post.]
.
389. SEO. ‘2. That every such writ of attachment shall bind the property
of the defendant or defendants against whom the sameshall be issued,
from the time that such writ shall be delivered to the sheriff, under-sheriti',
eoroner, or other officer, to be executed; and for the better manifestation

of the said time, such oﬂicer shall, upon the receipt of any such writ,
indorse thereon, without fee for so doing, the day of the month and year
when he received the same, and if two or more writs of attachment shall

be delivered against the property of the same person on the same day, that
which was ﬁrst delivered shall be ﬁrst executed; and the court out of

P. L. 1893, p. 161.

\Vrit of attach
rneni. issued
under this act to
bind property

from the time it is
delivered to
sheriff, &c.
Officer to indorse
dale and year

writ received.

PRACTICE.

2602

which such attachment or attachments may issue shall have full power
and authority to make inquiry and determine the priority of the said
several writs.
Issuing of wrlt
the beginning of
the action. No
ﬂl.ll1ll'll\0ﬂB D8098

nary.
When pleadings
to be ﬁled.

Special execu
tion to Issue iipon
recovery of
judgment.

In case property
is not llnble under
execution lnws,
sherlﬁ‘, ln his own
name, shall

realize upon said
property.

390. SEC. 3. That the issuing of such writ of attachment shall be
deemed the beginning of an action of law, and that no summons or other
mesne process shall be necessary to bring the defendant into court, and
that the plaintifff shall ﬁle his declaration within thirty days after the
return day of said writ, and shall rule the defendant or defendants to plead
thereto, which rule shall be served or published as the court may direct,
and that the practice and procedure in the action shall be the same as if the
action had been begun by summons, except as herein otherwise provided.
391. SEC. 4. That the property of the defendant or defendants attached,
shall remain during the pendency of the suit as security for any judgment
which the plaintifff therein may ultimately recover, and upon the recovery
of ﬁnal judgment in the action, special execution shall issue against such
of the attached property as may be liable to be levied upon and sold under
the execution laws of this state, and the proceedings thereon shall be in
conformity therewith; but in case the property attached, or any part
thereof shall be such as is not liable to be levied upon and sold under the
execution laws of this state, then and in such case the sheriff or other
olfﬁcer, to whom the said writ of execution shall have been issued, shall
have authority, and it shall be his duty, in his own name as such sheriff,
or other oﬂicer, to realize upon the said property and choses in action, by
sale, collection, or otherwise. and to that end he shall have authority to
bring suit in his name as such sheriff or other ofﬁcer, for the recovery of
any monies due thereon, and he shall account therefore to the court out of '

which the said execution issued.
Upon giving bond,
the property may
be released.

Supreme court
to make rules and
regulations to
carry out pro
vlslons of act.

392. SEO. 5. That the property so attached may, by rule of court, be
released from the lien of the said writ upon the defendant or defendants
giving bond, with sufficient surety or snreties, to be approved by the court,
or judge, or by the supreme court commissioner who awarded the said
writ, and ﬁled with the clerk, in double the amount of the plaintifff’s claim
or cause of action, or in double the value of the property so attached,
conditioned for the payment of any judgment which may be ultimately
recovered by the plaintifff or plaintifffs in that action.

393. SE3. 6. That the supreme court shall have power to make such
rules and regulations concerning the practice to be had hereunder as may
be necessary to carry out the provisions of this act, and that this act shall
be construed in all courts of judicature in the most liberal manner for the
detection of fraud, the advancement of justice and the beneﬁt of creditors.
Supplement.

P. L. 1395, p. 10:1.

Approved February 25, 1895.

394. SEC. 1. That section one of the act to which this is a supplement
In all causes in
which a caplas ad
respondendum
may issue, in an
action upon con
tract, a wrlt of
attachment may

be awarded.

be and the same hereby is amended so as to read as follows:
[That in all causes in which a capias ad respondendum may issue against
a defendant or defendants, in any action upon contract, the court or a judge
thereof, or a supreme court commissioner, may, at the request of the plain
tiff, upon ﬁling the afﬁdavits required as a foundation for an order for bail,
by an order made for that purpose, award a writ or writs of attachment
against the lands and tenements, goods and chattels, rights and credits,
monies and effects of the defendant or defendants in this state, whether
such defendant or defendants, or either of them, be a resident of this state
or not, and that such writ may be so awarded against the property of indi
viduals, copartnerships, married women, joint stock associations, corpora
tions, or any defendant or defendants in any action at law, and that the
practice and procedure in relation to the issue, the levy and the return of
the said writ or writs, and the vacation thereof when improperly issued,

shall be the same as in cases of attachment against non-resident debtors] (a)
(a) The facts set forth ln an affidavit for an attachment must
be proved by competent evidence. such as would be suﬂlclent

to go before a. jury to prove the ii-and.
Jiamilton, 17 N. J. L. J. 16.

Higglru (Jamel Cb. v.

PROMISSORY NOTES, &c.

2603

An act authorizing courts in this state to give the same force and
eﬁect to depositions taken stenographicaiiy by oﬁcers of such
courts as if the same were signed by the witnesses.
Approved May 9, 189-i.

395. SEC. 1. That where testimony is taken before a supreme court
commissioner, examiner in chancery or notary public for use in any of the
courts of this state, it shall be lawful for said supreme court commissioner,
examiner in chancery or notary public to take the said testimony stenc
graphically, transcribe the same and return it to the court with a certiﬁcate
stating that the same was correctly taken and transcribed, and on such cer
tiﬁcate the court shall receive such transcript as a true statement of the
evidence with the same force and effect as if the same had been written in
longhand and signed by the witnesses.

P. L. 189-I, p. 254.
Testimony taken

betbre supreme
court commis
sioners, &c.,
stenographicaiiy

to have same
force and elect
as if written in
ionghnnd and
signed by the
witnesses.

An act to enable women to practice law.
Approved March 20, 1&5.

P. 1. mos, p. ass.

396. SEC. 1. That no person shall be denied admission to examination

Women may

for license to practice law as an attorney or counselor in this state, or he
refused recommendation to the governor for license to practice law as an
attorney or counselor in this state, on account of sex.

practice law.

An act in relation to the service of process in actions ex delicto upon
residents of other states and upon non-resident receivers of foreign
corporations.
Approved March 20, 1896.

397. SI-:0. 1. That in all cases in which mesne process shall issue out oi’
the supreme court or circuit court of this state in actions ex delicto against
any person, persons, corporations or receivers of foreign corporations, who
do not reside in this state but who own or control or have the custody of
property, real or personal, situate in this state, and the cause of action
arose in this state, and the plaintifff is a resident of this state, such process
may be served upon the defendant or defendants therein named in the
same manner as process may now be served on non-resident defendants in
actions denominated local, the cause of which arose in this state; and the
practice in all cases under this act shall be the same, as nearly as may be,
as thejpractice provided for in the said local actions. [See Sec 376, ante.]

P. L. I895, 1). 380.
In actions ex
delicto against
non-residents,

mesne process
may be served

upon the defend
ants in the same
manner as upon
non-resident de
fendnnts in local
actions.

Promissory Notes, &c.
I. IN GENERAL.
I. When binding and transferable; action by indorsee.
2.
8.
4.
5.

Inland bills subject to same lsw as foreign bills.
Bills at sight, &c., entitled to grace if not drawn on bank.
Checks and drafts on banks payable without grace.
Bills in satisfaction of adebt, when to beaccounied payment.

6. Ifbill lost, drawer to give another.
I

. Actions BI law on lost bills.

X3. Fees for protesting.
14. Legal holidays.
16. Notice ofdishonomznay begiven on day next after 1|. holiday.
18. Deposit in posvoﬂice, when a suﬂicient service of notice.
UL SUYPLEHENTQ

17. Notaries appointed by governor.
18. Women may be appointed.
Fee must accompany application for appointment.

II. PROTEST AND NOTICE OF DISHONOR.

20. When term shall expire.
21. Repealer.

8 Amended by section 17.
9. By whom protest to be made.
IV. MISCELLANEOUS.
10. Oath oi’ notary.

ll. Notary orjustice to keep record.
l2.!Record may be referred to in giving testimony.

Days ofgrace abolished.
Repealer.

2632

QUO WARRANTO.

Quo Warranto.
l. How information may be exhibited against intruder into
0mm,

7' When appearance of defendant to be entered and pleadings
ﬂied. Aﬁdavit to be annexed to plea.

7. Of the judgment and costs.

When party shall join in demurrer.

8. Court to allow parties a reasonable time to plead.
4. Proceedings against person unlawfully holding or executing municipal oﬂice or franchise.
5. Relator to give bond to defendant.
6. When information and bond ﬂied, rule to plead may be
entered. Rule, how served.

when to be heard.

F.3s¢>:»

“lbs! suﬁicient notice of hearing.
Court always open for return of writs, &1c.
Upon Judgment of ouster, relntor may have immediate
possemion.
12. Court may determine title of respondent or reintor to oﬂ1ce_

An act for rendering the proceedings upon information in the nature
B"-"°°of a quo warranto more speedy and effectual.

R. s. am.
:|1°"1"‘°";*
0118138-Y
9n,,meda8a,m

Passed March 11, ins.
1. That in case any person or persons shall usurp, intrude into, or unlaw
fully hold or execute any oﬁice or franchise within this state, it shall and

mm,-,,¢e,mw

may be lawful to and for the attorney-general, with the leave of the

omee.

supreme court, to exhibit one or more information or informations in the
nature of a quo warranto, at the relation of any person or persons, desiring

to sue or prosecute the same, who shall be mentioned in such information
or informations to be the rclator or relators against such person or persons,
for usurping, intruding into, or unlawfully holding and executing any such
oﬂice or franchise, and to proceed therein in such manner as is usual in
cases of informations in the nature of a quo warranto; and if it shalj

appear to the said supreme court that the several rights of divers persons
to the same oﬂice or franchise may properly be determined on one infor
mation, it shall and may be lawful for the said court to give leave to
exhibit one such information against several persons, in order to try their
respective rights to such oﬂice or franchise; and such person or persons,
against whom such information or informations in nature of a. quo warranto
shall be sued or prosecuted, shall appear and plead as of the same term in
which the said information or informations shall be ﬁled, unless the said
court shall give further time to such person or persons, against whom such

géfcigmeni

information or informations shall be exhibited, to plead, and such person
or persons as shall sue or prosecute such information or informations in
nature of a quo warranto shall proceed thereupon with the most convenient
speed that may be.
2. That in case any person or persons, against whom any information
or informations in the nature of a. quo warranto shall, in any of the said

cases, be exhibited in the said supreme court, shall be found or adjudged
guilty of an usurpation or intrusion into, or unlawfully holding and execut
ing any such oﬂice or franchise, it shall and may be lawful to and for the
said court, as well to give judgment of ouster against such person or per
sons of and from such ofﬁce or franchise, as to ﬁne such person or persons
respectively for his or their usurping, intruding into, or unlawfully hold
ing and executing any such ofﬁce or franchise; and also it shall and
may be lawful to and for the said supreme court to give judgment, that
the relator or relators, in such information named, shall recover his or
their costs of such prosecution; and if judgment shall be given for the
defendant or defendants in such information, he or they, for whom such
judgment shall be given, shall recover his or their costs therein expended
against such relator or relators, such costs to be levied by ﬁeri facias, or

capias ad satisfaciendum, as in other cases.
°°“:"~°""°"

3. That it shall and may be lawful to and for the said supreme court to

:,':,‘:f,suf'e':,“s,,',ie';,,_ allow to such person or persons respectively, against whom any informa
tion in the nature of a quo warranto in any of the cases aforesaid shall be

QUO WARRANTO.

2633

sued or prosecuted, or to the person or persons who shall sue or prosecute
the same, such convenient time respectively to plead, reply, rejoin Oi‘
demur as to the said court shall seem just and reasonable. (a)
Supplement.
Approved Ill! 9. 1884.

4. SEO. 1. That whenever it is alleged that any person or persons usurp,
intrude into or unlawfully hold or execute any municipal office or fran
chise within this state, it shall and may be lawful to and for any citizen of
this state, who believes himself lawfully entitled to such office or franchise,
to ﬁle in the oﬂice of the clerk of the supreme court an information, or

P. L. 1884,11. an
Proceedings
Hg!-inst person
unlawfully hold
ing or executing
municipal oﬂloe
or franchise.

inforrnations, in the nature of a quo warranto, at the relation of the said

citizen, and who shall be mentioned in such information to be the relator,
against such person or persons as defendant or defendants, for usurping,
intruding into or unlawfully holding or executing any such ofﬁce or fran
chise, and to proceed therein in such manner as is usual in cases of infor
inations in the nature of a quo warranto, except as is otherwise provided
for in this act. (b)
(n) The words ofthe statute extend notonly to the oillces and
franchises ofcor rations within the state, but also to the oflioes
of the state iutei . Mal: V. Hirklmrsl, 4 Hui. 427, 437. The office
of deputy ﬂaunt-general is such an orlice or fr-nnchlse, an is

contemp a
by the act. for rendering the proceedings upon
information in the nature ofa tarp rvurrrmln, more speedy and
effectual. Mluer v. Uilrr, 2 Gr.
Hols the office of I-keeper.
Bmvnrs v. llrrhan, id Vr. lﬂl. A lawful butvaunto ct-ma be
usurped and intruded iuto,uwell as an oﬂice already till
by
a lawful Incumbent. Jilillcr V. Utter 2 Gr. 88. An liifomistiou
in the nature ofa quo warrmrlo will lie ngnlnstindlviduala.
Jililbrr v. l'llcr, 2 Gr. U. it was allowed to determine who were
the leg-ni trustees of a Presbyterian church. Hints v. Cmiarll, 4
Hut. 390. If a public corporation was never iegnllywnstltuted,
and if is necessary in obtain thelud merit of the courtsosd_iudg
ing, the proper method of proceed ng is by n ocrmjrlrlul orpuo
wurruiilo, so that the corporation itseifmsy be directly be ore
the court.

Slnlc, Wiiuor V. Brow

I Vr. I65. 35¢ Sluts V. Fulcr

son 1'urnpik¢ U... 17:11:. 9, ll. The izlitufnportytoau ofllcecsn
only beenlled in question by prover-<lingsln yaw uxrrrrmlo. Slnlr,

the swalication against a member of a corporation is based on
groun s sﬁectlng his individual title in commmi with that
of every other member of the mrporntlon. and iliut the
elect will be to dlmolve the corporation, is not,of itself, and
standing alone, as s proposition of law, or as a settled poliit of
prnctice. n ground for reiliiiingiesve to ille an information.
emu. Jliéchcll v. Iblun, 4 Vr. IN. At common law and in
uses not within the statute. the courts have no authority

to direct such information, and lave the matter to the dis
cn-tion of the attorney-gt-iierai. Sol: v. I‘llIH‘Mnl Tlrmpii-e Lh.,

I hub. D, iii. A relator who is not 5 contestant but merely 5
\llJIYOI and legal voter, who is an inlinblinnt of the city
an

subject to

is municipal

governnient, has s lllfll(.‘it‘lIf.

interest to In

rt his right to inlerpose, where ltis claimed

that the mem

rs

composing

the common council

were

unduly elected. BtnIr,Mm-lull v. Iblmi 4 Vr. I96. ins. Win-re
the object is to displace n particular odicer or nu-niber or a
corporation, the roceedlngs must be instituted b I\ proper
relator. Slate. limmr v. Brow», 2 Vr. 8.55. 8-SR.
ut when
public corporations are once do lﬂzclo formed. and are exer

Slolru V. Bu'urd1»/ l"rreIiol1ln"rq/ (Jmukn, 0 Ir. ZI7. Hair, Hot]! V.

cising cor

Orrrm, lo t r. 7a

mnln, to eclare such corporations iin rntive and in effect
dissolved, can oni be in the name o the attorucy-general
Acting 0'1: njririo.
b. Slut: V. Ikilrrniiii 7‘m'rrpikc 01., l ﬁll).
0. I0. In use of u lllllll, annual township oilice, the court
will allow an lnforniaiion in the nature of n quo um-1-milo
to be filed In the first instance; but in the case ofacorporn

The stniuto removes all doubt astotlie appli

cation of the remedies of quo rvqrrunlosnd mumlumm moor
porntioiis merely civil. Owen v. it Iullukrr, 6 C. 8. Gr. 122. Qua
warrrinlu proceedings are not prohibited by that clause oftiie
constitution Wlll(‘|l forbids that n
rsou sliull be held to answer
for a criminal offense, unless on is presenunent or indictment

i

by why of quo war

R. R. 01., O W‘.

tlon or hlghgublic oilicer, a rule to show muse should be

Iii an amicable suit between executors and legnieel

first taken.
ale V. Gtiiilirrersflli Club. 529. Shite V. Vrrrlmid
and &ale v. 7'I\ompson,cited,4 irb. ii-‘Si. lhlln .!. The dci'eiid
nut should be brought in by process. and then niled to
plead. lb. To an information ii the nature of n quo um»
mnto the defendant can plead but one plea. smlr, I-Jivnl \'.
Roe, § Dutch. 215. The usual course in such case is for the
defendant. either to put in a disclaimer, or to plead to the
informalion b setting out his title to the office. Slulr v. L'Itn',
2 (Ir. B4, B1.
here the court have ranted leave to file an
information, the usual course is for t e defendant not to file
A general demurrer to the information, but either to put in
I. disclaimer or to lead to the information by setting out

of s grand lury.

Z81

rate powers, p

AlI’y-tint. v. I). J: B. B

and devist-es to which the stale ls I. part, by reason of an
interest under the will, the court wi l, l necessary, order

ppecial proceedings to be taken, s. g.,nn information to be
led to protect the rights oftlie state. Strum v. l>'m»mr,9 C.
E. Hr. 77. The granting of an information is not n mere
matter of course, but depends upon the sound discretion of
the court, according to the particular circuiiistmiu-s of the
case made upon the application for leave to file an infor

rnat on; us where the right, or the fact on which the ri lit
depends, is disputed, or where the right turns upon apo Ill.
of new or doubtful law. Millrr v. llier,I Ur. 8-I. So,where
the application is at the instance of a private relator, malt
iug nu claim to the office, even where In
Objection to the
tit e of the person whose right is called ll nation issliown.
Smlz, Milt-hr.lt v. 1btun,4 Vr. lilii. When an e ection hr ofllcers
of a municipal corporation was held on a wrong day, without
objection, and by a pure mistake, which was not discovered by
any person interested, either as an ofllcer of election orcsnd date or voter, until nftcr the election was held. and where there
was no pretense of fraud or corrupt motive on the part of any
person concerned in the election, which was pnrtici ted in by
a Large inojorit

of thequaifiled voters in the city,

cou rt, in

the exercise o its discretion. may properly refuse to allow an
information in the nature of a qua wurmnlo against the de
fendant, who wns chosen an alderman atsaid election, toinqnire
h'y what authority he held and exercised his ofllce. Iii. Altm
l it up
red that the non-compliance with the law was
iuduc
by any fraudulent motive, or was prompted b an ill
tent l.0<“‘lvh
‘lips lswr.t Mullah Illilclirrll vi 1i|:IIll.l 1',
u¢rye er
e eon
won
nter ere n t ie cases n
,
3' any menus were provided for supplying the vacancies
created by ousting the defendants, or for continuing the city
government without their presence Iii the cit council. lb.

he rules which ordinarily govern the court ii the exercise
of this discretionary power, appear to be these: ll) That the
relator be not a mere stranger coniiug in to di!iiurbncorp0r

ntlon with which he has no concern; (2) that he has riot coii
curred in the act which he afterward complsinsof nsiliegai;
(3) in the absence of fraud, orn willful violation of law, that

public or private Interests will not be seriously impaired by
the ouster of the oﬂlmr whose title to oﬂice it is proposed to
inquire into.

Blnle, Jllilrlull v. 7htmi,4

l'1'. l9&

“liercncity

charter required a maiorlty of the whole number of alder
inen who composed the city council, in order l0 constilnten
quorum for transacting business, the fact that asucceasilil prose

cution of the proceedings would leave the council without
such quorum, and thus result in the suspension oi‘ all muni
cipnl government in the city for nearly a year. ought to con

tmi the discretion of the court, unless the ends ofjuaiice
demand the application of such severe remedy. lb. That

his title to the o ce, to which plea the attorney-general
may reply or demnr, as in other arses. lb. 500811!!! v. Ano
cmlu, 0r., cited 4 lab. 629,b3l, Polls, J. As to the disiiiiction

between the use of a writ of ctrlim'ur|' mid uo wan-mim, see
Humn v. Piwlioiderr Q] (lnmim, i8 Vr. 454. Amer V. Jllillwllr,
24

l'r. I6‘).

Where there is frauduieutvoting at an election, a

prmm /in-in case uiust be made to show that t is at least prob
able that sufﬂcient false votes werecsst toclinuge the nesiili,
before an information will be allowed to test the title of an
incumbent to his oﬂlce. Roche v. Iii-ui/Irrmuun, 21 l'r. l'.*l. ’i‘lie
lll0l‘lI -general has tlreri t;wher-e the property oftiie slnie
or the

ntercsts of the pub ic are directly concerned, to ille an

information either at law or in equity. without a relator, Al1‘y
Gm. V. I). é B. B. R. R. (i1.,l'l L‘. L‘. (r'!'.G3l. lice I'.'Iizub¢!/iluwn.
Grulighl Cb. V. GT(FlI,1 Dirk. li8. Judgment of ouster should
be rendered though the usurpation do not coiitiuue uiiiil the

lrili. Hmnmlr V. Slulr, I5 i’r. 67i.
(bi An ofilcer of a vfefnrro rrinriicipaiity crumot be ousted. at
the instance ofa private relalor in qrm |mrrmilo,0u tliegroiiiul
that sucli nblic corporation has no legal existence. Such l?.‘(l.'

tence can re called ll question only by the interposition of the
nttorney- eiieral, acting for tlie state. Slrrlmmr v. l'1rkrrs,22.
i'r. I80.
‘lien an inforniation in the nature ofa quo II.Vll‘1‘lin!!)
is issued by theattorney-geiierai.rirawing in question the legniiiy
oi‘ the organization 0 s.muiiicipal curporutiu||,si|cli cl! fur/fr
corporation is a proper defendant in t ie pmcedure. Slulr v.
Allunlic Highlm|d.r,2l Vi‘. -457. The lnforninlloti \\'iI€Il against
a corporation must be prosecuted in the name ofilie attorney

nernl alone, and cannot bejoined with an liiforniation at the
nstniice of private reintors against. officers iii a corporation.
(mills v. Suincrr Point. 20 i'r. 5l.S. The t'l9i'PlI(iiiili.'5illit'£l|<llii~ is
to be inquired into on aqun ivrrrrnnlo. Durur v. Imm'x,2S i'r.
213. But $1.-e Sec. l'2.p0st. When a public oilice lins bet-n lil
Iruded into, wltliout color of right, the court will irriposc such L
ﬂue upon the usurper as shall appear, under the clrciinisinm-i~.-,
to be condigii. Dmur v. I)(IUl.I, rupm. As to cliullengliig the

right of a relator to file an information without leave of court.
see Davis v. .Duvi1, 28 Vr. 80.

QUO WARRANTO.

2634
Upon ﬁling of
information.

relator to live
bond to defendant
m pl‘0!eCul.9 ac!-1011
to effect and D8?

coats.

5. SEO. 2. That upon the ﬁling of such information the relator or relators
shall execute a bond to the defendant or defendants in the penal sum of one
hundred and ﬁfty dollars, with one or more sufiicient surety or sureties,
being freeholders and residents in this state, with condition to prosecute
said action with eﬂ'ect, and to pay costs to the defendants if they shall be
entitled thereto; which bond shall be approved by a justice of the supreme
court, or supreme court commissioner, and ﬁled in the oﬂice of the clerk
of the supreme court.

6. SEO. 3. That upon ﬁling said information
request of the attorney of relator, the clerk of
course a rule on the defendant or defendants
information within ten (lays after service upon

and ‘bond as aforesaid, at
said court shall-enter as of
to plead or demur to said
-him or them of a certiﬁed

copy of such information and rule; such service shall be made upon each

Proof of service,
Are.

when appearance
of defendant to be
entered and plea
ﬁled.

Pica to have ani
duvlt annexed.

defendant, either personally, if he shall be found, or if not found, by
lea.\'.ing said: copies of the informationand rule at the house or place of
abode of the, defendant, in the presence of some person of the family of the
age ‘of fourteen years, who shall be informed of the contents thereof; proof
of said service shall be made by the affidavit of the person making the
service of_the time, place and manner of. saidservice, which aﬂidavit shall
be ﬁled with the clerk of said court.
_
7. SEC. 4-. That the defendant or defendants, within ten days after service of said information and ‘ rule as aforesaid, shall enter an appearance to‘.
said action,,and,,(unless a justicei of thesupreme court, upon proper evi-'

- dence of a reasonable cause therefore,‘ shall grant further time, which-; in casej
there has been personal service, shall not exceed ten days without consent.
of the relator) (a) shall ﬁle his plea or demurrer to said information, and in
default thereof judgment by default shall be entered against him or them ;:
if a plea shall be ﬁled it shall have annexed to it an affldavitby each dei
fendant, stating the facts, matters and things set forth in said plea, so far as
they relate to liis own acts, are true, and so far as they relate to the acts of
.others, he believes them to be true,‘ and also stating that said plea is not

ﬁled for the purpose ‘of delay, and that he believes he has a legal defense,’
When further
pleadings filed
and served.

When party shall
Join ln demurrer.

When to be
heard.

to said action on the merits of the case; if further pleadings shall be

necessary they shall be ﬁled within ten days, each after the other, or
within ﬁve days after service of a certiﬁed copy upon the opposite party,
or his attorney, unless a justice of the supreme courtlshall, under special»
circumstances, grant further time as aforesaid; and thereupon such further
proceedings shall be had as are reqllired by law.
'
8. SEC. 5. That when a demurrer shall be ﬁled by either party, the other
party shall join in demurrer within ten days, unlcss a justice of the supreme
court shall grant further time as aforesaid ; that whenever there shall be a~
joinder in demurrer the same shall be placed at once upon the calendar of
the supreme court of the term in which issue is joined, for an immediate
hearing, as soon as it is possible for the court to attend to the same ; if not
heard at the term in which issue is joined, said cause shall be placed by
the clerk on the calendar of the succeeding term of said court, and shall be
brought to a hearing at that term, upon ten days’ notice by either party to
the other.

What a suﬂiclent

Q. SEC. 6. That whenever notice is required, two days’ notice of the

notice of hearing.

hearing, argument or trial of any motion or issue arising under this act
shall be suﬁicient.
'

Court always
open for return of
writ, ac

10. Slsc. 7. That the supreme court shall always be open, except on
Sunday, for the return of all writs and process in proceedings under this~act.~

Supplement.
P. L. 1895, p. 344.
U

n judgment

0 ouster, relntor
may have lmme~

dime possession.

_

Approved Maven 19, 1895.

11. SEO. 1. That hereafter any relator or relators, upon the entry of judg~
ment of ouster in the supreme court in respect to any oﬂice or franchise‘
within this state, upon any proceedings upon information in the nature

(a) See Rldpwny v. Homer, 20 Vr. 84.

RAILROADS AND CANALS.

2635

of a quo warranto, wherein such relator or relators shall thcretofore have
had judgment of ouster in said court, shall be entitled at once upon the
entry thereof to enter, possess and enjoy the office in respect to which the
said proceedings, whcreon the said judgment may he founded, were or shall
be taken; and that the said court or any judge thereof may, upon the
entry of such jutlgmcnt, thereupon make an ordcr on any defendant in
such proceedings requiring him immediately to surrender any such office
or franchise, with all the books, papers and insignia thereof, to the reiator
or relators; and no writ of- error or other proceedings shall in anywisc
affect the right of such relator or rclators to immediate entry into such
office or franchise; 1n-or-filed, that such relator or rclators shall, upon his or

Court may make
order for sur
render of oﬂicc.
\§C.

Proviso.

their entry into such ofiicc or francltise, give bond to the defendant or dc
fendants in such sum and with such surety or sureties as the supreme court
or any judge -thereof shall approve, conditioned for the repayment to the
defendant of the cinoluincnts of the office or franchise during such rclator's
incninbcncy therein to which such defendants may be adjudged to be
entitled, as well as the costs of the defendant, in the event of the subsc
qucnt reversal of the judgment of ouster in the said proceedings.
An act in relation to the writ of quo warranto.
approved February 18, 1895.

P. L. 1895, p. 82.

12. Sac. 1. That in all actions of quo warranto, the supreme court may,
if the writ. return and pleadings arc properly framed for the purpose,

Supreme court
may determine

title of respond

determine by its judgment. not only the title of the respondent to the
office or francliisc in question, hut also the title ofthe rclator or rclators to

ent or relator to
oﬁlce.

the same otilcc or franchise, and shall have power, by appropriate process

or orders, to enforce its said judgment.

Railroads and Canals.
I. GE.\'El{AL RAILRHAD LAW.
I.
2.
3.
4.

30. Signboards to be erected.
31. Penalty for intoxication while in charge of engine. &c.

Proceedings for the formation of a company.
Amended by sections 4?. and 46.
Certified copy to be evidence of incorporation.
Directors may receive subscriptions until whole capital

stuck is subscribed.
5. Amended by section 56.
6. Directors to appoint president and other ofiiccrs.
7.
8.
9.
10.

32. Fences to be kept up and maintained.
33. Company not liable for injury to passengers riding on plat
form.
34. Time for commencement and completion of road.
35. Penalty for violation of certain provisions of this act.
36. Amended by sections -'37 and 61.
37. \\'ho may ride free.

Proceedings in case of forfeiture of stock.
Stock to be deemed personal estate.
Capital stock may be iticrcusmi.
Proceedings in case of indebtedness by contractor for labor

3s. Franchise heretofore or hereafter granted not to
exclusive.
39. Legislature may alter, amend or repeal act.
40. Railroad companies may establish and operate ferries.

be

performed in construction of road.
ii. Amended by section 83.

4i. Route of railroad relocated.
42. Amended by section -I6.

12. Proceedings when company and owner of lands cannot

43. Corporation may borrow money to build and repair road,

agree.
13. Appeals to be made in writing and ﬂied with clerk of cir&c., and issue bonds therefore.
44. Repcaler.

cult court.

45. Railroad company in possession of bridge may apply to

14. Amended by sections 59, 68 and H4.

riparian commissioners for adjudication respecting bridge

15. May transport freight and passengers.
l6. Dividends.

structure when under indictment for obstructing navi
gallon.

7. Amended by section 55.

'

18. Penalty for injury to property.
19. Statement of cost oi’ road shall be filed with comptroller.

46. Articles of association not to be ﬂied until $2,000 of stock for
every mile is subscribed and paid to state treasurer.
47. Rcpealer.

20. Amended by section 43.

48. Number of persons requisite to form a. company for under

21. Proceedings when additional lands are taken.
22. Conductors, brakemen, &c., to wear badges.

ground railway.
4.. Rates of freight to be charged.

‘.23. May connect with other roads.
24. Proceedings when agreement cannot be made for carrying
United States mails.
25. In case of refusal of passenger to pay fare.

60. Right of way not to include permanent use of surface of the
earth.
51. Right to maintain and operate railroad, how acquired.
5'2. Railroad companies may sell tickets at less than limited

26. Notice to be made of the time of starting and running cars.
'17. Checks for baggage.
28. Lumber or freight cars not to be placed in the rear of pasrates.
53. Repealer.
54. Writs of certiomri to remove proceedings by commissioners

senger cars.

29. Bell on locomotive to be rung on street and road crossings.

appointed to assess damages, dzc.

stay, &c.

Not to operate as a


