COURTS.

342—§ 512]

[TIT VIII, CH. I.

^Governor to flu ya- order of suspension to be served on the governor of the Terric l isa chap 92 tory without delay, who shall fill the office by a temporary apt >»;'•».
"ft. pointment.
■mal and judgment. § 512. All accusations of facts shall be tried as in other
actions, and, if the accused is found guilty, judgment shall he
iii. « ».
~ rendered, removing the officer from the office and declaring the
office vacant
n?ancrto "Sf^acSa7
§ 51 3. When the accused is an officer of the court, and is
w»>«n' suspended, the court may supply his place, by appointment for
id. j is.
the term.
o™*., who unbie tor. § 514. The accuser and the accused are liable for the costs
id. t is.
as in other actions.

TITLE VIII—COUETS.

CHAPTER I.

Appellate jurisdiction
Adjournments; continuances
Procesa, return of . r
Process, execution of
Sheriff of Santa Fe county to attend
Writs, power to issue; rules, to make
Practice, rules and forms of, to establish
Chancery procedure

SUPREME
Section.
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
622

COURT.
Skotios .
Promotion of justice
Ml
Judges required to hold district courts
5»
Districts,
may
change
Judges may perform duties of another, when .... 5M
525
Sessions, length of; at chambers
5ÍS
Appeals, effect of divided opinions
Sessions, two annuaüy; term commences, when 529
:>«
Judgments filed in vacation, when

§ 515. The supreme court shall have appellant jurisdiction
Appcllate j u r 1 ediction.
in all cases, both civil and criminal, which may be determined
C.
L.
18(55,
chap.
16,
! 1; Sept. 22, 1816.
in the district court
Territory vs. Ortiz, vol. 1, page 5, N. M. Rep.
Aubry vs. Nangle, vol. 1, page 115, N M. Rep.
§ 516. If there shall not be a quorum of the justices of the
Adjournment;
tinuance.
said supreme court present on the first day of any term, the
court shall stand adjourned from day to day until a quorum
shall attend; and if from any cause the supreme court shall
not sit on any day in a term after it shall have been opened,
there shall be no discontinuance, but so soon as the cause is
removed the court shall proceed to business until the end of the
C.
L.
1865.
chap.
15,
: 2; Feb. 2, 1859.
term, or until the business pending before it be disposed of.
§ 517. All process which shall be issued from the said
Process; return of.
supreme court shall bear teste in the name of the chief justice,
be signed by the clerk, dated when issued, and sealed with the

I
3^—§ 318 J

COÜRTS.

[TIT. Till, CB. t.

:i;«Vpi.1ai»«p'I6'! seal of.tne court; and all such process shall be made returnable
according to law, or such rules and orders as the court may
prescribe.
oProo...,„eo«uoB § 518. Any process which may be issued from the said su
preme court, or any justice thereof, or the clerk, shall be exe
cuted by the officer or person to whom it shall be directed, in
any county or place in this Territory, in the usual manner that
III. 5 4.
process is or may be required to be executed and returned.
«S^"2u££ta re § 51»- The sheriff of the county of Santa Fé shall, when
required, attend upon said supreme court as upon other courts
in the Territory, and perform such duties as required by law
and the rules of said court, and receive such fees and compen
Id. 5 5.
sation as permitted by law.
e nú, power to is- g j2()_ The said supreme court and the district courts shall
have power to issue all writs granted by law to the circuit and
district courts of the United States, and the supreme court to
w, t» make.
make and establish all necessary rules and forms of proceeding
5
~ touching such writs in conformity with the known general prin
ciples, usages and objects of such process.
Practice, n.iw .md
§ 521. It is hereby made the duty of the said supreme
court to ordain and establish, both for itself and the district
courts, in all matters pertaining to their respective jurisdictions,
I<L • 7" ftU necessary rules and forms of proceeding and practice, not
inconsistent with the laws of this Territory,
chancer, proce- § ^¿2. The said supreme and district courts, in the exer
dure.
cise of chancery jurisdiction, arising in all causes and matters
in equity, shall conform in their decisions, decrees and procedure> to the laws and usages peculiar to such jurisdiction in this
,d !8~ Territory, and the supreme, circuit and district courts, of the
United States.
prom„t,„„ of ju. § 523. The said supreme court, in all its rules, forms of
tii-.-.
proceeding and practice, for itself, the district court, and the
ldTji).
judges thereof, shall endeavor carefully to promote and secure
justice and right, and prevent injustice and delay.
boiafe',?^,.'0 § 524. The judges of the supreme court of the Territory
of New Mexico are hereby required to hold the district courts
in the respective districts to which they have been assigned,
and in each county of said districts, for the disposal of all civil
& fc^S"^ and criminal business within said counties, in exact conformity
! U; Jan. 8, 1852. Tr.
with law.
U. 8. V». Mont*", vol. 2, page 265. W. 0. Rep,
ehangV.rlcts' m"i
§ 525. The judges of the supreme court holding district
Td.TS
courts may alter and change their districts temporarily.
duíSf^STíSS??
§ 52G- When an7 judSe of any district court shall be alv
wlu!n' sent from his district, or shall be in any manner incapacita

346—§ 527]

¡jOURTS;

[TIT. VIII, CH. II.

from performing any of his duties as such judge, any other dis
trict judge in the Territory may perform any and all such duties
for him the same as he might do if present or able to act: Pro
vided, that nothing herein contained shall be held to require
that such other district judge must come within the district of
l, iwu.cWp.i8, ¡i; *^e ju(%e f°r whom he is acting before he can properly perform
AprU3such duties as aforesaid,
tajom, length of; § 527. The supreme court shall continue in each of its ses
sions as long as the business in said court may require, and
shall always be considered open at the chambers of the judges
~cTLrí866,~ch5¿7i6: °^ said court out of term, for the hearing of applications for a
!«; Jan. 3, 18.12.
supersedeas, on a judgment of the district court.
vweíotíüiioSct'>fdl" § ok28. In all appeals from the district courts of this Ter
ritory to the supreme court, when the judges of the supreme
court are equally divided, the opinion of the court below shall
be confirmed: Provided, that the judge who decided the case
in the court below, shall not vote on any question which may
arise in the same case, unless he shall be of opinion that his
decision in the court below should be reversed, and the other
two judges be divided on the question. But the judge who
tried the case in the court below may give his reasons for any
' c. i,. 1805, chap, is, opinion which he may have given, and quote authorities to
5 18: Feb. 9, ,8*. Tr.
such decig¡on_
noS2^fflmtwo Rn" §529. The supreme court shall hold two sessions annually
at the seat of government, commencing on the first Monday in
j^islaTchSpTu.iT, Jmuary and second Monday in June and continuing until the
business on hand is disposed of.
viicatira™henled
§ áñO. When causes are or have been argued and sub
mitted during any session of the supreme court, judgments in
writing, together with the opinions, may be filed by the judges
thereof in the office of the clerk of said court in vacation ; and
' Id. }2.
8Ucn judgment shall be entered by the clerk nunc pro tunc as
of the terms at which such causes were argued ór submitted.

CHAPTER II.
DISTRICT
Section I
Jurisdiction
531
Jurisdiction, criminal and civil
532
Process, issue of
533
Court* to be held at county seats
534
District courts established in each county
535
Terms, two annually
5Stt
Adjournment, when
587
Time for tilinganswer
538
Costs, charges and expenses to be paid by Territory 540

COURTS.
Section'.
Costa, same against Territory and county,
^
Costs by plaintifff, when
"*
Terms, begin when
^
Act applies to terms in progress
Contingencies, sheriff to provide for
™!
Interpreters
authorized;
Stenographers,
provisioncompensation
for; oath; compensa- 5*'
«<">
•••
&
Judges, expenses to be puid, how; limitations. 348—§ 531J

Judge may order, in writing
Special terms authorized, when
Business, any pending may be taken up
Purposes; length of session
Appeals, who may make

COURTS.

SPECIAL
Section.
551
552
552a
553
RIOHT OF
558 ,

[TIT. VIII, CH. II.

TERMS.
Process, return of; effect
Jurors, who shall serve
Attorney general to attend; compensation
APPEAL.
Appeals to supreme court; limitations

Section.
^
55^
55'

560

DISTRICT COURTS.
§ 531. The district court in the several counties in which
they may be held shall have ¡>ower and jurisdiction as follows:
First, of all criminal cases that shall not otherwise be provided
for by law ; second, exclusive original jurisdiction in all civil
cases which shall not be cognizable before probate judges and
justices of the peace; third, appellate jurisdiction from the
judgments and orders of the probate judges and justices of the
5 w- sept^SX 16' P6*106 in a11 cases not prohibited by law, and shall possess a
' '
superintending control over them.
Leitensdorfer vs. Webb. vol. 1, page 34, N. M. Rep.
Ward vb. Broadwoll, vol. 1, page 75, N. M- Hep.
JuSStgp clv11
§ 5.32: .Th.e district courts in the various counties shall
have jurisdiction in all civil causes in said counties which
according to law belong to the district courts, and of all
¡ a'; Jnn aTis»""' c"m'nal causes that may originate in said counties, or that
may be presented by indictment, information or by appeal.
Romero vs. Silva, vol. 1, puge 157, N. M. Rep.
Oarland, et al., vs. Bartels Bros., vol 2, page 1, N. M. Rep.
§ a 33. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the district court,
Process, issue of.
in all causes not otherwise provided for, to issue all process to
the sheriff of the county in which the trial or cause shall be
commenced or presented, or in which final sentence shall be
rendered; and it shall be the duty of the sheriff to execute
faithfully such process, and return the same to the said court,
Id. § 4.
as provided by law.
§ 5 34. The district courts, and courts of the probate judges,
'.'rebifiST'Tr7:5 sha11 be held at the county seats of the different counties.
§ 535. District courts are hereby established in each of
lishc<l in each roinity.
jol. is™, chap. 8l51; the several counties of this Territory.
§ 536. It shall be the duty of the judges, in their respec
^ Terms, two annual- tive districts in this Territory, to hold two terms of the distri
c7l. isas chap le oourt everJ year within the counties of their respective distric s.
ie'; J"»- «.i859.'tt'. and in the places and times that may be fixed by law.
^
Adjournment, when.
§ 537. When from any casualty the judge of the distn^'
court shall be prevented from attending a term of said court o
the first day. the court shall stand adjourned from day to ctay
Jurisdiction.

350—§ 538J

COURTS.

[TIT. Till, CH. Ilc. l. i86s, chap. i6, until the third day, when, if no judges shall arrive, the court
'
' '
shall stand adjourned until the next term.
niS"*1 ,or 4UnB M1"
§ 538. Any law which requires the court to wait until the
third day before a defendant shall file his answer to a plaintifffs
petition or complaint, is hereby repealed. Upon the calling of
Id, s la,
a cause, the court may grant to the party such reasonable time
to make his answer as the circumstances of the case may require.
[Sec. 539 decided obsolete and omitted.]
eií»náeScto"bI^aiTby
§ 54*0. The costs, charges and expense of holding and
T"t?vm.<!
r- 111 fiintaining- the district courts, and the costs in causes deterFeb. i2.'
' mined against the Territory shall be paid by the Territory.
§ 541. In all cases in which costs are adjudged against
Coete ume
against
Territory
and county.
the Territory or any county, they shall be taxted and charged
L. 188», chap. 21, 5 3; the same as in other cases and no more.
A"r"'f'
wfiSÍ* by piaintift,

§ 54,9. In jjj cases 'in which the Territory or any county is
plaintifff, and the costs are adjudged against the defendant, if
"IoTsZ
execution against defendant is issued and returned nulla bona,
the costs shall be paid by the plaintifff in the case.
Terms begin, when.
§ 543. The terms of the district courts shall be held in the
several counties of this Territory, beginning at the times here
inafter fixed and continuing until adjourned by order of the
court. In the county of Santa Fé, first Mondays of February
and July ; in the county of San Miguel, the first Mondays of
March and August; in the county of Mora, the first Mondays
of April and September ; in the county of Colfax, the third Mon
days of April and September ; in the county of Taos, the first
Mondays after the fourth Mondays of April and September;
in the county of Rio Arriba, the second after the fourth Mon
days of April and September; in the county of Socorro, the
fourth Monday of March and the third Monday of November;
in the county of Valencia, the third Monday after the fourth
Monday of March of each year and the first Monday in Novem
ber ; in the county of Bernalillo, the first Mondays of May and
October; in the county of Dona Ana, the first Mondays of March
and September; in the county of Lincoln, the second Monday
Tni«i,chap.22, ¡i; of May and the third Monday of October ; in the county of Grant,
the fourth Monday of July and the first Monday of December.
[Section 514 found obsolete and omitted.]
prosTeS ,<™i' to §
The provisions of this act shall apply to any and all
-jg-rr
terms of said courts which may be in progress" at the time of
the passage hereof, as well as at all terms to be thereafter begun.
in toJSw¡dS*"" sher"

COURT EXPENSE?.
§ 546. It shall be the duty of the sheriff of each county to
provide for the district courts held within the county of which
he is sheriff, necessary furniture, fuel, lights, stationery and
other articles required for the proper performance of the busi
ness of the court In counties where proper rooms are not

352—§ 5-47]

COUBTS.

[TIT. ntl, CH. II.

otherwise provided, the sheriff sb.all procure such rooms as are
necessary for the use of the court, when open in term time and
at chambers, and for the jury and petit jury. When juries are
kept together during a trial, the sheriff shall provide suitable
L. 1882,
i and
° i accommodations
j
i them.
jv
Feb.
is. chap. 22, Si; meals
for
§ 547. Whenever necessary, an interpreter shall be ap
Interpreters,
pensation
tn. e n m- pointed by the court, who shall receive a compensation of not
less than six, nor more than ten dollars per day for his services.
The court shall also appoint an interpreter for the grand jury,
Id. S 2.
whose compensation shall be three dollars per day for his ser
vices.
§ 548. In cases where the business of the court shall be so
Stenographer,
provirion
for.
large in extent, or of such character, as to require in the opin
ion of the judge the services of a stenographer one may be ap
pointed by the court, and before entering upon the discharge
of his duties, shall take an oath faithfully and truly to record
and transcribe such proceedings in said court. Such steno
grapher shall receive for his services in recording the proceed
ings, as aforesaid, a sum to be fixed by the court, not exceed
ing ten dollars per day, to be paid by the Territory. The notes
so taken by the official stenographer shall, at the end of such
term of court, be deposited in the office of the clerk of said
court. Transcripts of the notes so taken shall be furnished by
Traut*cripts,
may
fur
nish.
the stenographer to any party, at a charge not exceeding fifteen
Id. 5 3.
cents per folio.
§ 549. The judges of the supreme courts shall be paid from
Expense
of
Judges
In be paid; limitation. the territorial treasury the amount of their actual expenses in
holding courts at places other than those at which the United
States courts are held in their districts, not exceeding three
hundred dollars each, in any one ' year. And the territorial
auditor shall issue warrants therefore, on the certificate of the
Id. Í 4.
respective judges.
[Beotlon 660 found obsolete and omitted.]
SPECIAL TERMS.
§ 551. Whenever any regular term of the district court for
Judge
may
order
in
writing.
any county in this Territory shall for any cause fail to be held,
the judge of the district in which such failure shall have taken
place, or, in the absence of any such resident judge, then any
district judge in this Territory, if he deem it advisable and
necessary to hold a special term of said court for such county,
may order a special term to be held at the court house of said
county at a certain time to be specified in said order, which
shall be made in writing, and filed with the clerk of such dis
trict court, and a copy'thereof posted up at the court house
door of the said county at least ten days previous to the time
hap.
18,
•Ian. 13, 1862.
specified for holding said special term.

COURTS.

§54—§ §52]

[TIT. VIII, CH, It.

§ 552. The respective district judges are hereby author
Special when.
terms au
thorized,
ized at any time, to hold special terms of the district court in
any county of their judicial districts, when a term thereof in
said county may have failed: Provided, said special term,
shall not conflict with a term of said district court in any other
county in the same judicial district. Said terms to be called
L.1K71, ehap.au s; in the same manner now provided by law for the holding of
Jan. 3.
special terms of the district courts in this Territory.
Special terms, when. 3o ¡rDí>¿-A.
K CI
nTi_
• the discretion of the judge of any dis
When in
trict court, a furtherance of justice may require it, a special
term of the district court may be held in any county of his dis
trict; which said special term may be called in the same mantacnt^<Sal5£nM>d' D6r now.Provided by law for the calling of special terms, and
up' any business at the time pending in said court, or that may
,
come before it in the usual course of business of the court, may
^l. i874,0h.p.a7,¡3; be taken up, and acted upon, and disposed of in the same man
ner as at a regular term of said court
Purposes; time.
S„ 55d. Any special term of the district court that may be
ordered under the provisions of this act, shall be held for the
purpose of hearing and determining all causes that may be deo. l lane ch.p la P611*1*1?^ in said court, both civil and criminal, and may con5 i; Jan. is,' wet Trl tmue in session the same length of time that is allotted to the
regular term of court for such county and no longer.
§ 5 54. All bonds, recognizances, and other process of what
Proceed, return of:
effect.
ever nature or kind it may be, returnable at the regular term
that shall have failed, shall be returnable to such special term,
'_
and snall have the same force and effect at such special term
• 1 5as they would have had at the regular term to which they were
returnable.
§ 555. The jurors, both grand and petit, who shall have
• iebeen selected for the regular term that shall have failed, shall
be summoned to serve as jurors at such special term.
[Section 556 found obsolete and omitted.]
JSF"
*>
§ 557. It shall be the duty of the attorney general of this
Territory, to attend all such special terms of the district court,
having been duly notified thereof, or provide that some one
learned in the law shall attend for him, and the said attorney
general or his deputy, shall be required to perform the same
duties at such special term, as he is required by law to perform
at the regular terms of the district court, and when such special
terms shall be attended by a deputy, such deputy shall receive
from the treasury of the Territory the sum of fifty dollars for
each week that such special term may be held, which shall be
Compensation.
_
Paid *° hlm upon the order of the court in which he shall hare
iarpr- served, and said sum thus allowed to such deputy, shall be de
ducted from the salary of the attorney general.
,

356—§ 558]

COURTS.

[tit. viii, ch. in.

RIGHT OF APPEAL.
ho may g 558. Every person aggrieved by any judgment or decic. l. law, chap. i6, si°n °f any district court, in any civil case, may make his aps 2; sept. 22, i8«.
peal to the supreme court.
[Section 559 found obsoleto and omitted.]
co'urt;1taitíítSn,reme
§ 560. All suits brought in the district courts, in this Ter
ritory, which suits shall have been determined in said court, if
either of the parties shall desire to take an appeal from the
judgment of said court, to the supreme court, on complying
with the provisions of the law regulating appeals, said appeal
may be granted, which on being taken to the supreme court
the same shall be there final and conclusive without recourse
c. l. ism, chap. K, or appeal, when the amount in litigation does not exceed one
5 M: Jan- * "»
thousand dollars.
'

CHAPTER III.

Terms, six annually
Jurisdiction

PROBATE COURTS.
Section.
, 5tii | Appeals..
562

Seotios.
56S

Terms,.sliy*annually.
8 L?
ífil1 ' aj
_
/ &/ ^
&if terms
of
probate court shall be held in each
fTTtfl'l 7 ' ? Ma2 M^?' rm°,encing ™ the first Mondays of January,
CA^-A^r—- Sí;
I'
September and November ; each probate
i*&?$38* Jud?e mnJ hold adjourned terms of his court at any time that
business may require it.
Jurisdiction.
j_nr&i
& Kfia
i • mi
• J*- several, probate judges shall have exclusive
.. .
or ginal jurisdiction in all cases relative to the probate of last
mils and testamente: . The granting letters testamentary and
of «taumstrafaon, and the repealing the same; the appointing
ana aisplacing guardians of orphans and persons of unsound
Jthl blntVng out apprentices; to settlement and allowance
hJr! ™™n}Ú8 of executors, administrators, and guardians; to
of pv! r detlermine a11 controversies respecting wills; the right
P' ndminist™tion or guardianship, respecting the
and !,n0r TOUniS °f executors, administrators or guardians;
ana an controversies between master and those bound to them;
a^niw
/^ermine all suite and proceedings instituted
ftP «M 7^ °r «dn»inistrators upon any demand against
ai vt! l , the!r test,ltor or iutestateV Provided, that when
1nr
' [2 demn»'1 sh«» exceed one hundred dollars, the claimcoui^ZefirÍ¡;,^°rethe P-^—t or in the district

c-rfei^^r

■

358—§ 563J
Appeal.

courts.

[tit. Yin, ch. iv.

•

§ 563. Appeals from the judgment of the probate court
shall be allowed to the district court in the same manner, and
c. l. 1865, chap. 2i, subject to the same restriction as in case of appeals from the
s 4, sept. 22, 1846.
district to the supreme court.
Territory vs. Ortiz, vol. 1, page 5, N. BJ. Rep.

CHAPTER IV.
JURIES AND JURORS.
Section. Appearance and return day, how fixed
577
Commissioners, appointment of; qualifications
Venires not to issue, when; sheriff's direotion to 578
and duties
564 Jurors,
who qualified as; bigamy or polygamy
Oath required
565
disqualifies
Jury lists; how selected
566
from jury duty
Lists to be sealed; endorsement by judge
667 Exemptions
Venirt, clerk to issue; conditions
568 Challenges in criminal cases; limitations
Challenges
in
civil cases
Summons, service of
569
how chosen after challenges
Jurors failing to attend, penalty for; proviso.. ,. 570 Jury,
Jnries,
howconstituted
and selected; deficiencies,
Commissioners liable to contempt for failing to
how supplied
attend
•
571 Grand
jury, how constituted; twelve to find "true
Prolmte judges, penalty for non-attendance
572
MU"
W
Justice of the peace appointed, when
578
to fill vacancies
Lists to be preserved
574 Talesmen
Juries
to
be
chosen
from
residents of certain
Secrecy enjoined
575
counties
Deficiencies, how filled; juries for term in certain
cases
576 Juries, judges mayselect, when
THE GRAND JURY.
M
Grand jury defined
590 Foreman, court to appoint
tW
Grand jury to consist of seventeen
591 Foreman, form of oath
601
Defendant may challenge
592 Jurors, form of oath
(KJ2
Challenge of panel, causes for
593 Juror single, form of oath to
803
Challenge of juror, causes for
594 Court to charge
804
Challenge to be entered and tried
595 Meetings private
«03
™Jj
Decisions to be entered
596 Clerk, appointment of, duties
_
Challenge to panel, effect of
, 597 Discharge, how and when
Service,
limit
of
Challenge of individual, effect of
598
POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE GRAND JURY.
to prisoners and records
Power
608
^
Indictment, when found
609 Advice, may be asked from whom
Secrecy enjoined,
penalty
Indictment defined
610 Testimony,
court
may
require
disclosure,
when.
.
.
«^
Foreman to ádminister oath
611
Evidence competent
612 Juror not to be questioned
Evidence admissible
618 Indictment, how to be found; endorsement
Evidence to he weighed
614 Charge, when dismissed
^
Indictment, when to be found
615 Charge, dismissal of not final
^
Juror to make complaint, when
616 Witnesses, names to be inserted
^
Inquiries, to be made
617 Indictment, how presented
THE PETIT JURY.
Ballots, how prepared
628 Jurors, how returned
Attachment for absentees
629 Qualifications
Ballots, how drawn
630 Jury, twelve sworn men
Ballots, to be kept separate
631 Jurors, summoned from bystanders, when.Ballots, return to box
0S2 Term of service; judge may discharge
640
Ballot, drawn in absence of juror
633 Juries, special, summoned when and how. ■■
Panel, completion of
534

3Ó0-§Í>64]

COURTS.

.

[llT.m^fí.

JURIES AND JÜRORS.
§
564.
It
shall
be the duty of the judge of the district
Commissioners,
poinmient
of. i court, at each regular term that shall be holdeu in any county
U « /
!n
Territory, to appoint in open court three persons of
honor and respectability, and who shall have resided in such
county at least one year next preceding, and also shall possess
a Qualification, a n a the qualifications required by law for jurors, to constitute,
jointly along with the judge of probate of said county and the
judge holding the term of such district court, a commission to
.ipTta, s^lect a grand and petit jury, whose duty it shall be to serve at
L. _2, • Tr the next regular term of said court in each county.
i 1;C.Feb.
§ 565. It shall be the duty of the persons so appointed
Oath required.
upon being notified of their appointment, to attend without
delay at the place where said court shall be holden, and shall
faoh toke ftn oath in open court that they will faithfully and
id. {a.
impartially discharge their duties in said commission in the
selection of grand and petit jurors.
íeíS?; üítt' how
§ 566. After the oath aforesaid shall be duly taken, it
shall be the duty of the said persons to retire with the probate
judge and the district judge, to some convenient room, and
•
select seventeen qualified persons to compose a grand jury, and
M-«3twenty-four persons a petit jury, for the next succeeding term
of the court.
§ 567. The names of the persons so selected for grand
jurors shall then be put into a written list and enclosed and
J»S?
ffaled up, and the judge of the district court shall write across
the place of sealing, the words "grand jurors," and the same
-idTiT
shall be done with the names of the persons so selected for
petit jurors, and separate from the list of grand jurors.
■uirSSoiuoS. 10 "*
§_568. The packages so sealed shall then be delivered by
the judge to the clerk of said court, or his deputy, to be by him
safely kept until not more than forty nor less than thirty days
before the first day of the next term of said district court,
when, m the presence of the sheriff of the county, or one of his
deputies, where the clerk shall keep his office, and also the
district judge if he be present, he shall open each of said
packages, and forthwith issue summonses in the form of a
tvwe to the sheriff of the county in which said jurors shall
üave been selected, returnable to the next term of said court;
and all the names contained in the list of grand jurors shall be
included m one summons, and those of the petit jurors in
Id. J 5.
summons, Ser vice

§ 569. The summonses so issued shall be, as soon a p
ticable, delivered to the sheriff to whom they shall be dire
and such sheriff shall, at least five days before they shan u

362—§ 570 J
5 6? Fe'b.1fiáfPT?' í111™1116- summons each of the jurors named therein to be found
in his county, by reading the same to the jurors mentioned, or
showing him the summons and informing him of the contents
thereof.
toSn,enXtoK to °u § 57°- . Every j«K>r so summoned who shall fail or refuse
to attend in obedience to the venire, by the hour of eleven
o'clock on the first day of the court, shall be liable to a fine in
a sum not exceeding fifty dollars, and process of attachment
may issue against him to show cause why such fine should not
Proviso.
be inflicted: Provided, that for good cause shown to the court
id. §7.
be inflicted:
the defendant may be discharged.
nb?c "torio ntlmi'i § 571. Every person who shall be appointed a conmiisforMling to attend. sioner by t])e j|Kjgp ^ pursU(ulc„ ()f
^ ftnd who ^ ,.e.
fuse or neglect to perform the duties herein prescribed, shall
be liable to attachment as for contempt, and fined in any sum
not exceeding ten dollars, in the discretion of the judge; and
in case of any failure to attend and take the oath and join the
S8.
commission herein provided for. the district judge shall appoint
other persons in the place of such as shall be absent.
.iS'tr'iSia" §672. If the probate judge shall be within the county,
uncl>
nu<l shall fail to attend said commission, he shall be liable to
attachment by the court, and may be fined not exceeding fifty
dollars, in the discretion of the judge or of the court: Pro
vided, he may be excused upon good and satisfactory reasons
Id. S
being shown.
p.Síll'rXS6"01'' np" § 57 & Tue absence of the judge of probate shall not pre
Jus'.U;e of peace, ap- vent the district judge, with those whom he shall appoint as
herein provided, from selecting the jurors and performing all
things as this act directs; and if the judge of probate shall fail
to attend, a justice of the peace of the county shall act in
Id. 5 ID.
his stead.
§ 574. After the clerk shall open the packages as herein
List*
to
be
preserv
directed, and shall have issued the summons for the jurors, he
ed.
shall safely keep the envelopes enclosing the lists, and shall
Id. §11.
have present at the next term of court the lists and envelopes.
Secrecy enjoined
3t¿í*'""'~nií>
a t st. Jiach of the said commissioners shall keep secret,í' id. i i2.
untl1 8aid packages shall be opened, the names of the persons
mD„flcle„cies, how

which shall be placed on the list as jurors.
§ 57(>. When by reason of non-attendance of jurors, for
any cause whatever, the panel of grand or petit jurors shall he
incomplete, the deficiency may be filled as now provided by
law; and if from any cause the commission shall fail to make
out the list, or the clerk shall fail to issue the summonses as re
quired, or if from any <..luse whatever no jury shall be at any
time hereafter summoned to attend a term of the district court,

364—§ 577]

COÜltTS.

[TIT. Till, CH. IV.

jnrie» for term, how then, and in such case, the judge with the sheriff, or his depuESuami. °r 81,e" ty and the clerk of said district court, at the opening of court,
or as soon as practicable, shall make out the lists of grand and
petit jurors for the term, and the clerk shall forthwith issue
summonses for the persons so named, which shall be served by
L. 18(55,
chap.Tr.
03, 5
13;C.Fob.
2, 1859.
the sheriff without delay.
§ 577. The respective judges of the district courts in the
Appearance
and
re
turn clay, how fixed. several counties of the Territory, are hereby authorized to fix
and designate the appearance day, and return day, of any
venire for grand or petit jurors of the district court in any
county, by written order, attached to, or endorsed on said
venires and should no such order be made, the appearance
and return day thereof shall be the first day of the term of the
L. 1871. chap. 36, }l;
court at which the same may be returnable.
Jan. 3.
§ 578. Should it appear that there will be no necessity for
Venires not to I
any grand jury or petit jury, at any term of any district court,
when.
provided by law to be held, or that said term will not be held;
then, in that event, the judge of said court, or in case of his
absence or inability to act, any other district judge may issue
an order directing the clerk of the court not to issue any
i«s, direction venire for said juries, and also directing the sheriffs not to
serve the same if issued, but to notify the jurors not to attend
at the term, if he had previously served the same; for which
service he shall have the same conipensajtion he now has, by
Id. ! 2.
existing laws of the service made in the venire.
[Section 579 transferred; see section 552.]
§ 580. All male persons over twenty-one and under sixty
Jurors,
who
qu
a
1
iyears of age who shall have resided six months in the county
fled as.
next preceding the term of the court to which they shall be
summoned as jurors, and who shall be citizens of the United
States, qualified voters of this Territory and owners of real es
tate in this Territory, shall be liable to be chosen and to serve
as grand and petit jurors: Provided, however, that no person
living in a bigamous or pilygamous state in this Territory sha
.' or poly be a competent or qualified juror in any court in this Territorygamy, disqualifies.
Provided, further, also, that no person who has ever been or
conviction of crime shall have been convicted of any felony or otherwise infamous
crime in any part of the world, and shall not have been par
disqualifies.
doned therefrom by competent authority, shall be a competen
L. 1881.25. chap. 28,
March
or qualified juror in any court in this Territory.
Territory vs. Young et al., vol. 2, page 93. N. M. Bep.
Territory vs Lopez et al., vol . 1, page 821, W. C. Bep.
§ 581. The following persons shall be exempted from sucb
Exemptions
jury
duty. from service: All United States, territorial and county officers; nil
lawyers ; priests and ministers of the gospel ; all teachers of ncnaeniies and schools; all practicing physicians; one miller to eac
public grist mill; all persons over sixty years of age; and»
persons not of sound mind and memory; and all persons subjec

366—§ 572]

courts.

[tit vm, oh. it.

to any bodily infirmity amounting to disability. And the judge
holding the court, upon sufficient cause shown to him, may ex
cuse or discharge any juror from further attendance at the term;
and all persons shall be absolutely disqualified from serving as
jurors who have been convicted of larceny or any infamous
C. Feb.
L. 1866,
chap.Tr.
68, Crime.
¡ 16;
2, 1859.
uíí'caíe'i.'uSiS- §5K2. In all criminal trials where two or more persons shall
lon"be jointly indicted for a felonious offense not punishable by
death, and more than one shall be put upon their trial at the
same time, the defendants may jointly challenge peremptorily
five jurors and no more, and the Territory three and no more;,
and in all such cases where the indictment shall charge an
offense which shall be a misdemeanor only, the defendants may
,
challenge peremptorily three jurors and no more, and theTerid. s
" ritory two ; but in all capital cases, the Territory may challenge
peremptorily six jurors and the defendant ten.
challenge» in civil
Id- 5 w'

£
In all civil cases each party may challenge peremp
torily three jurors and no more, whether the plaintifffs or defendants shall be single or joined.

af'teTchaiIie°i]^!Sch'w'"
id. ! i9.

§
After the Territory and defendant shall have chal
lenged peremptorily the number of jurors as provided in this
act, the jury to try the case shall be chosen from the twenty~ four jurors chosen by the commission, unless they shall be chal
lenged for incapacity proven, or by themselves under oath.
Territory v». Young et a)., vol. 2, i>age93, N. M. Bep.

§ 585. In the district courts in which suits and causes of
Grand jury, how the United States are tried, and the terms of which are fixed
composed.
by the judges of the supreme court of the Territory, the grand
jury shall consist of twenty-one persons, qualifiedjurors accor
ing" to the provisions of the preceding section of this act, an
petit jurors, having the same qualifications, 'hall
snaU
Petitto jurors,
twenty- ,twenty-foUl'
four
be summoned.
- summoned to attend the terms of said courts. Such gram
be
and petit jurors shall be selected in the same manner as jurors
Jurors,
how
select
tor
the district courts of the several counties are selected under
ed.
existing laws, by three commissioners to be appointed by the
judge of the court, who shall have the qualifications of jurors,
together with the judge and clerk of such court and the United
. Desciende,, „ „ „ :,t!ltes marshal for the Territory, or one of his deputies. If
applied.
the requisite number of either grand or petit jurors shall fail
»o attend at any term of such courts, the requisite number of
poisons to supply the deficiency shall be selected by the judge
ana clerk of the court and the United States marshal or his
deputy, lu ense there Bhonld bp a fjiihire to
ftt
pro])er
ne, persons to serve as grand and petit jurors shall be

368—§ 586J
»<
Selections,
regular
time.
l. is«p,rtmp- 11,! 2;
Feb. 13,

COURTS.

[TIT. VIII, CH. IV.

selected in the same manner at the term at which they are re
quired to serve. The jurors for the said district courts shall
be selected from the body of the judicial district, and shall in
all cases have the qualifications prescribed in section 580.

Gronii jury, seven- § 586. The grand juries of this Territory, when not con
tCI'll
sisting of the same jurors as those of the United States courts,
o
and
shall consist of seventeen jurors; twelve of whom shall be neces
Twelve
"true
bill."
sary to transact business, which number last mentioned shall
l. une, chop, u, } 2; also agree to the finding of a "true bill," before a presentment
'Tlm'
can be made.
coícle^ho'vf'sebí™" § 587. When there shall be any vacancies in either the
* 60 grand or petit juries of the district courts; talesmen shall be
selected from the body of the county in the manner now proid. i 3.
vided by law for the selection of the grand and petit juries,
when no commission shall have been called in to select the same.
§ 588. The juries for the district courts for the counties of
Juries
to be chosen
from
residents.
Santa Fe, Bernalillo, and Doña Ana, shall be selected from the
persons residents in such counties respectively qualified by law
as jurors in this Territory, in the same manner in which juries
~E. vm, chacras, Hi are selected for the other counties in this Territory under existMftroh 12.
: ilaw.
"
mg
b^SLc""^ . § 58 9. Whenever in any of the district courts of this Ter
ritory there shall be a failure to select at any term the jurors
to serve as grand and petit juries at the next ensuing term, the
judge shall cause the same to be selected at any timé on or before the first day of such next ensuing term on which he may
attend such term, such selection to be made in the same man°er as squired by law, when selected during the preceding
term of such court; but this section shall only refer to the reg
Id. 5 2.
ular jury lists and venires, and not to talesmen.

Juries,

THE GRAND JURY.
§ 590. A grand jury is a body of men, not less than seven
Grund jury defhuxl.
teen nor more than twenty-one, returned at stated peno118
the citizens of the county" before a court of competent juris
c. i.. m eh»„. .a, tion, chosen by lot and sworn to inquire of public offenses c
mitted or triable in the county.
§ 591. In the district courts held in and for the several
counties of the Territory, the grand jury shall consist of sev
. 1IM), chap. 11, i 3;
teen qualified jurors.
ieDe,eudan,,„»ych»lg ggg ¿
^
ft cha,.ge for a public of370—§ 593]

COURTS,

["TIT. VIH, CH. IV.

c.^TSB^djap. 89, fence may challenge the panel of the grand jury, or an indi
vidual grand juror.
Territory vs. Yarberry, vol. 2, page 891, N. M. Rep.
^ohiiiwg» of panel,
§ 593. A challenge to the panel may be interposed for one
or more of the following causes only:
First. That the requisite number of ballots were not drawn
from the grand jury box of the county.
Second. That the drawing was not had in the presence of
the officers designated by law, and
id. j i.
Third. That the drawing was not had at least fifteen days
before the court
Territory vs. Young et al., vol. 2, page 98, N. M. Rep.
§ 594. A challenge to one individual grand juror maybe
Challenge
8 for. of juror interposed for one or more of the following causes only:
First. That he is a minor.
Second. That he is an alien, and was not a citizen of this
Territory at the time of the passage of the organic law of this
Territory, and has never been naturalized according to the laws
of the United States.
Third. That he is insane.
Fourth. That he is the prosecutor upon a charge against the
defendant
Fifth. That he is a witness on the part of the prosecution,
and has been served with process, or bound by an undertaking
as such.
Sixth. That a state of mind exists on his part in reference
to the case, or either party, which satisfies the court in the ex
ercise of a sound discretion, that he cannot act impartially and
without prejudice to the substantive rights of vthe party chal
id. 1 6.
lenging.
Carter vs. Territory, vol. 1, page 317, N. M. Rep.
t^ISRr&ii'pSí
§ 595. The challenge mentioned in the last three sections
T"°
'
may be had, and must be entered upon the minutes, and tried
by the court: Provided, that no person of the grand or petit
Id. ) 6.
jury shall be challenged after he has been sworn.
Territory vs. Yarberry, vol. 2, page 391, N. M. Rep.
^Decidor, to be e»§ 5 9 6. The court must allow or disallow the challenge, and
Id- f
the clerk must enter its decision upon the minutes.
eflSofotT * Plme1' . § 597. If a challenge to the panel be allowed, the grand
jury are prohibited from inquiring into the charges against the
defendant by whom the challenge was interposed ; if they should,
' i», s ».
notwithstanding, do so, and find an indictment against him, the
court must direct it to be set aside.
§ 598. If a challenge to an individual grand juror be al
Challenge
of
indivi
dual, effect of.
lowed, he cannot be present at, or take part in the consideran

372—§ 599]
C.L. mas, chap, su
9; reb.7,i8M.
Foreman, court to
«ppoint.
id. ¡ io.

COURTS.

[TIT. VIII, CH. IT.

of the charge against the defendant who interposed the challenge, or the deliberation of the grand jury thereon.
§ 599. From the persons summoned to serve as grand jurors,
an<j appearing, the court must appoint a foreman. The court
must also appoint a foreman when a person already appointed
is discharged or excused before the grand jury are dismissed.
Foreman, form of
§ 600. The following oath must be administered to the
foreman of the grand jury: " You, as foreman of this grand
jury, shall diligently inquire, and true presentment make, of
all public offenses against the people of the United States or
this Territory, committed or triable within this county, of which
you shall have or obtain legal evidence ; you shall present no
person through malice, hatred, or ill-will; nor have any unpresented through fear, favor, or affection, or for any reward or
the promise or hope thereof ; but in all your presentments or in
dictments you shall present the truth, the whole truth and no
thing but the truth, according to the best of your skill and un
Id. 1 11.
derstanding, so help you God."
§ 601. The following oath must thereupon immediately be
administered to the other grand jurors present: "The same
oath your foreman has taken before you on his part, you and
each of you shall well and truly observe on your part, so help
Id. } 12.
you God."
§ 602. If after the foreman is sworn, any grand juror ap
Juror,
form
o£
oath
to single.
pear and be admitted as such, the oath as prescribed in section
600 must be administered to him, commencing, "You, as one of
Id. i 13.
this grand jury," and so on to the end.
§ 6 0 3. The grand jury, being empannelled and sworn, must
Court to charge.
be charged by the court; in doing so, the court must read to
them the provisions of section 880 to section 886, inclusive,
• and must give them such information as it may deem proper,
as to the nature of their duties, and any charges for pubM
offenses returned to the court, or likely to come before the
grand jury ; the court, need not, however, charge them respec Id, ¡ u,
ing the violation of any particular statute, unless made expressly
its duty to do so by the provisions of such statutes.
Meeting, in private.
§ 604. The grand jury then must retire to a private room.
id. } is.
and inquire into the offenses cognizable by them.
oci«t.MaPDointment
§ 605. The grand jury must appoint one of their number
as clerk, who must preserve the minutes of their proceedingid. s ie:
except of the votes of the individual members on an indictmen ,
and the evidence given before them.
w££h",e' how an'1
§ 606. The grand jury, on the completion of the "UBin^
before them, must be discharged by the court, but whether
id. i n.
business be complete or not they are discharged by the
adjournment of the court,

374—§ 607 J
Bervi.*, limit of.
{ S; fooT'ism?1''

COURTS.

[TIT. VIII, CH. IT.

^ 607. No person shall be obliged to serve as member of
tne grand jury more than once a year.
POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE GRAND JURY.

Power.

§ 608. The grand jury have power, and it is their duty to
inquire into all public offenses committed or triable in the
c. l. 1866, chap. 7o, countv, and to present them to the court, by indictment, aa
1; Feb. 7, 1854.
■ j j ■ jv •
i.
provided m this act
^oíSd0,menl, wh6n
§609. Upon such inquiry they may, when the defendant
_
has been held by magistrate, or not, to answer a charge, if they
''!"
believe him guilty then find an indictment against him.
indictment defined. by§a 61
grand
(). jury
An indictment
to a competent
is an accusation
court, charging
in writing,
a person
presented
with a
Id' 5 3'

public offense.
Territory vs. Sevaillee, vol. 1, page 119,'N. M. Rep.
Leonardo vb. Territory, vol. 1, page 291, M. M. Hep.
Tenorio ve- Territory, vol. 1, page 279, N. M . Rep,
Territory vs. Miera, vol. 1, page 387, N. M. Rep.
8 611- The foreman may administer an oath to any witness
Foreman
to
admininter oath.
• i i.
,i
j •
id. s 4.
appearing before the grand jury.
Kvidence compe4j 61 2. In the investigation of a charge for the purpose of
indictment, the grand jury can receive no other evidence than:
First. Such as is given by witnesses, produced and sworn
ld- *5~ before them, or,
'
Second. By legal documentary evidence.
Evidence admití- § 6 1 3. The grand jury can receive none but legal evidence,
-idrnc
:— and the best evidence in degree, to the exclusion of hearsay or
secondary evidence.
Evidence to be § (514. The grand jury is not bound to hear evidence for
g
the defendant, but it is their duty to weigh all the evidence sub
mitted to them, and when they have reason to believe that other
evidence within their reach will explain away the charge, they
should order such evidence to be produced, and for that purid. s 7.
pose may require the district attorney or attorney general, to
issue process for the witnesses,
^indictment, when to
§ 615. The grand jury ought to find an indictment, when
all the evidence taken together is such as in their judgment
u. { s.
would, if unexplained or uncontradicted, warrant a convicn
of the trial jury.
juror to make com§ 6 1 6. If a member of the grand jury knows, or has reason
plaint, when.
,.
J J committed,
... j yrtaea «-ta
to vbelieve
that a public offense ohas been
id. { 9.
triable in the county, he must declare the same to his fellowjurors, who must thereupon investigate the same.
mádV'uirl1'8 be
^617. The grand jury must inquire:
r
First. Into the condition of every person imprisoned on,a
criminal charge triable in the county, and not indicted,

376—§ 618]
io?Feb1f]'t»4*p'70'i

courts,

[tit. tiii, ch. iv.

Second. Into the condition and management of the public
prison in the county; and,
Third. Into the willful and corrupt misconduct in office of
public officers of every description in the county.
,md^ord"».u"","0'u§ 61 8- They are also entitled to free access, at all reasonM- * "■
afile times, to the'public prisons, and to the examination with
out charge of all public records in the county.
ai4Vfrora whSec. be §. 1 tJ- The^grand jury may, at all reasonable times, ask the
advice of the court, the attorney general or the district attorney
of the county, and whenever required by the grand jury, it
shall be the duty of the district attorney of the county to attend
them for the purpose of framing indictments, or of examining
witnesses in their presence, but no district attorney, sheriff or
other person shall be permitted to be present during the exm. ¡ ii
- pression of opinions, or giving of their votes upon any matters
before them.
peSi¿i"-.eCÍ ""J0""*1:
§ 620. Every member of the grand jury must keep secret
whatever he himself, or any other grand juror may have said,
or in what manner he or any other grand juror may have voted,
on a matter before them ; any grand juror who shall, during
the sitting thereof, or at any subsequent period, violate the
w. i is.
provisions of this section, shall be fined by the court in any sum
not exceeding fifty dollars.
toSmun°!iLc'S% §621. A grand juror may, however, be required#by the
c°urt, to disclose the testimony of any witnesses examined be
fore the grand jury, for the purpose of ascertaining whether it
18 consistent with that given before them, by any other person,
w. f u.
upon a charge against him for perjury, or in giving his testi
mony, or upon his trial thereof.
tioS.rut"tobe<w~§ 622. A grand juror cannot be questioned for anything he
may say, or any vote he may give in the grand jury relative to
a matter legally pending before the jury, except for perjury, of
id. s lo.
- which he may have been guilty in making an accusation, or giv
ing testimony to his fellow jurors.
foíídl ^"nlS.'eít?" § 6 2 3- An indictment cannot be found without the concur
rence of at least twelve grand jurors ; when so found it must be
w. í ie:
indorsed "a true bill," and the indorsement must be signed by
the foreman of the grand jury.
Leonardo vs. Territory, vol. 1, page 291, N. M. Kep.
Territory vn. Sevaillee, vol. 1, page 11», N. M. Kep.
gjg**- 'W *""*" . § 624. If twelve grand jurors do not concur in finding an
id. , n.
indictment the charge must be dismissed.
Charge, dfcmlwal of ii3 ii»/o.
•) r mt
t . . of the charge does not however prenotfln"1lne dismissal
TdTTia;—
vent lts being again submitted to a grand jury as often as the
court may direct.
Witneaws,' names to §o act
/. -rrT,
<>2u.
When an indictment is found, the names of the wit

§78—§ 627 j

COURTS.

[TIT. VIII, CH. IV.

nesses examined before the grand jury, must in all cases be in
serted at the foot of tbe indictment or indorsed thereon before
it is presented to the court.
Indict
men
t,
how
§ (527. When an indictment is found by the grand jury, it
presented.
must be immediately presented by their foreman in the pres
ence of the court, and must be filed with the clerk and remain
Id. § .»'.
in his office as a public record.

c. L.Fob.1865,7, IBM.
chnp.
5 19;

THE PETIT JURY.
Ballots, how pre
§ 628. At the opening of the court, the clerk must pre
pared.
pare separate ballots, containing the names of the persons re
turned as jurors, which must be folded as nearly alike as pos¡ i, sible, and so that the name cannot be seen, and must deposit
C.
L.
II
{ l; Feb. 7,
them in a sufficient box.
§ 629. When the indictment is called for trial and before
Attachment for ab
drawing the jury, either party may require the names of all
the jurors in the panel to be called, and that an attachment
issue against those who are absent; but the court may in its dis
Id. § 2.
cretion wait or not for the return of the attachment
nan.*., how drawn.

Id. § 3.
Wpar,',e: *°
Id. 5 1.
Ballot s, return to
box.
Ballotof juror.
drawn In ab
sence
Id. 5 *!.
/.«i. common

Id. $ 7.
ed.Jurors, how return
Id. $ 8.

§ fi30. Before the name of any juror is drawn, the box
must be closed and shaken, so as to intermingle the ballots
therein; the clerks must then, without looking at the ballots,
draw them from the box, through a hole in the lid, so large
only as conveniently to admit the hand.
§ 631. When the jury is completed, the ballots containing
the names of the jurors sworn must be laid aside and kept apart
from the ballots containing the names of the other jurors, until
the jury so sworn is discharged.
§ 632. After the jury are so discharged, the ballots con
taining their names must be again folded and returned to the
box, and so on, as often as a trial is had.
§ 633. If a juror be absent when his name be drawn, or
be set aside, or excused from serving on the trial, the ballot
containing his name must be folded and returned to the box,
as soon as the jury is sworn.
§ 634 When by reason of challenge or otherwise, a suffi
cient number of jurors duly drawn and summoned cannot be
obtained for the trial of any cause, civil or criminal, the court
shall cause jurors to be returned from the by-standers, or from
the county at large to complete the panel.
§ 635. The jurors so returned from the by-standers shall
be returned by the sheriff, or his deputy, or by any disinter
ested person appointed therefore by the court.

380—§ 636]

COURTS.

[TIT. VIII, CH. V.

§ 686. The persons so returned shall be such as are qualiQualifications.
C L 1866 chap 71, fied and liable t0 be dxaVnl aS jUrOTS' aCCOrdÍng to Üie PrOTÍ"
S9;'reb.7,i854. ' ' Bi0ns of law.
§ 637. The jury consists of twelve men, chosen by lot, as
Jury, twelve sworn
men.
prescribed in this chapter, and sworn to try and determine the
Id. 8 10issue by a unanimous verdict.
§ 638. If a sufficient number cannot be obtained from the
J u rbystanders.
ora, summoned
from
box to form a jury, the court may, as often as is necessary,
order the sheriff to summon so many persons qualified to serve
as jurors as it deems sufficient to form a jury; the jurors so
summoned must be called from the list returned by the sheriff,
and so many of them, not excused or discharged, as may be
Id. 5 11.'
necessary to complete the jury, must be empaneled and sworn.
Term of service.
Judge may dis
charge.
LTÍ880,
chap. 11, S 4:
Feb.
13, 1880.
Juries,when
special,
mimed
anil sumhow.

Id. ! 5.

§ 630. The petit jurors summoned to attend any term of
the district courts shall serve during the entire term: Pro
vided, that the judge of such court may discharge such jurors
at any time, if, in his judgment, the business of the term shall
not require their further attendance.
§ 640. After the discharge of the petit jurors at any term
of the district courts, the judge of such court may order a spe
cial jury to be summoned for the trial of any cause pending in
such court. Such jury shall be summoned from the by-standers, being qualified jurors, by the sheriff or any person ap
pointed by such judge for that purpose.

CHAPTER V.
CLERKS OF COURTS.
Section.
Section.
Clerk of supreme court
641 Oath, and filing
^
Duties
(J42 Clerk responsible
^fí
Accounts, allowance of
643 Deputies, powers
~j
■
«2
Bonds required
844 Deputy, in each county
■
^
Removal, causes for
645 Oath, and tiling
Defense, right of
646 Fines, clerk to report
^
Deputy, authority for
647 Failure to report, penalty
Clerk of supreme § 641. The clerk of the district court of the count)' m
court.
p. l. 1865, chirrs; which the supreme court may sit, shall be ex-officio clerk of
5 2; Sept. 22, 1846.
*,
J '
supreme court.
§ 642. The clerks of the supreme and inferior courts,
urts, ami
and
Clerks, duties.
of the probate judges, shall seasonably record the judgmenre,
rules, orders, and other proceedings of the respective courts,
and make a complete alphabetical index thereto; issue ana at
test all processes issuing from their respective offices, awl a

382—§ 643 J

COURTS.

[TIT. Till, CH. V.

the seal of office thereto ; they shall preserve the seal and other
property belonging to their respective offices; they shall pro
O. L. 1866, chap. 39, vide suitable books, stationery and furniture for their respect
Í 3; Sept. 32, 1846.
ive offices, and keep a correct account thereof.
§ 643. Each court shall audit and allow such accounts, and
all such allowances made to the clerk of the supreme court shall
be paid by the United States, and all others by their respective
Id. ( 4.
counties.
§ 644. The said clerks, previous to entering on the duties
Bonds required.
of their respective offices, shall give bond with security to the
Territory, to be approved by the judge making the appointment,
Id. I 5.
conditioned to do and perform all the duties required by law.
§ 645. If any clerk shall willfully and knowingly do any
Removal, causes f<
act contrary to the duties of his office, or shall knowingly and
willfully fail to perform any duty required of him by law, he
shall be removed from his office by the court of which he is
Id. { 6.
clerk, on motion founded on charges exhibited.
§ 646. A notice of such motion and copy of the charges
Defense, right of. shall
be served on him at least ten days before the day on which
the motion is made; a jury shall be summoned to try the truth
of the charges if they are denied, or the whole may be submit
Id. ! 7.
ted to the court at the option of the accused.
§ 647. The different clerks of the district courts in this Ter
for.Deputy, authority ritory shall be and are hereby authorized, with the consent of
the court, to appoint a deputy clerk for each county in his dis
trict; such deputy shall reside in the county for which he shall
ISO,
L 6,
i 8;C. Feb.
I*.. have been appointed.
§ 648. Such deputies, before entering upon the discharge
Oath and filing.
of their duties as such deputy clerks, shall take and subscribe
a similar oath to that required by law that is taken by his
principal, which oath shall be filed and recorded in the office of
Id. 5 9.
his principal.
§ 649. Each clerk shall be responsible for the acts of his
Clerk responsible.
deputies.
Id. i 10.
§ 650. Such deputies, when duly appointed and qualified,
Deputies, powers. may and are hereby authorized to execute any and all the
duties pertaining to their office, in the name of their principal,
Id. Í 11.
as fully as their principal could do.
§ 651. The clerks of the district courts, in this Territory,
Deputy
in
e
county.
are authorized to appoint deputies in the various counties.
Id. i 13.
§ 652. Such deputies, before entering upon the discharge
' Oath and filing.
of the duties of their office, shall take and subscribe an oath to
discharge faithfully and legally all their duties assigned by
law, and in the same manner as clerks do. Said oath shall be
Id. i 14,
filed in the office of the clerk of the district court.

counts.

[TIT. Vllt, CH. Tt

384—§ 653]
pFtaes, clw* 10

§ 653. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the district
courts, within ten clays after the adjournment of the district
court, in each county, to report in writing, and under his hand
and the seal of said court, to the probate clerk of the county, in
which such district court shall have been held, all the fines
imposed by said court, specifying clearly who may have been
fined, for what crime or offense he has been fined, who has
collected said fine, or who ought to collect it, and in what time
C. L. 1865. chap, os,
■ ,
1 16; jan. ú, 1862. Tr. ft s]wu\d be collected
raiiureto report;
§ (554 If any clerk or clerks of the district courts, shall
penalty
fail to comply with the duties assigned him in the foregoing
section, on conviction thereof before any district court, tney
shall be fined by said district court, in any sum not less than
"'• 5
twenty-five dollars, nor more than one hundred dollars.

CHAPTER VI.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Seotios.
Section.
Private
seal,
clerk
may
use
when
m
Judicial districts, division of the Territory
655
to lie public
^
Real estate of minors, etc., jurisdiction of
656 Courts
of
Record and seal of district courts
657 Order, preservation
fines for, limited
m
Seals
658 Contempt,
Jurisdiction
of
district
court
Seal, Bnniciency of
659
Seals, authorized UBe of
660
™ior.T,f
the TernIhe Territory of New Mexico shall be divided into
Jurilciiil districts:
<ll - 8 "oo.
ect m,
three
follows,
to wit: Mora, Taos and Bio
Ihejudicial
countiesdistricts,
of SantaasFé,
San Miguel,
Amba shall constitute the first judicial district/and the counties
ot_Bernalillo, Valencia and Socorro shall constitute the second
judicial district, and all that part of the Territory embraced in
-rrr-tssr-i.
íü.e c™nty of Doña Ana shall constitute the third judicial dis5 i;i™SS¿gBjg- trict:. Provided, that the times and places of holding the courts
7' «^"l^£dioS£

remain in force as now provided by law.
§ f'iJfi. The district and also the probate courts in this
J-erntory shall have jurisdiction within the counties wherein
toe same are held to decree the sale, hypothecation or other
disposal of the real estate situated in said counties of minors

^. 187'J,
chup. lfi, i 1
Jan.
31. Tr.
mm persons known as non compos mentis.
B«»t, et al, vs. Maxwell, L. 4 G. Ry. Co. , vol. 3, page 8, W. C. Rep.
, § Aj» ' ■ Each district court of each county in said Territory
Recordcourts.
and seal ol Luwt66? B .record- an«as soon as practicable shall have a seal.
district
with the initials D. C. engraved across the face thereof, and the
1 11 ' ¡ the county on the margin; said seals shall be kept by

386—§ 658 J

COUftTS.

[TIT. VIII, CH. VI.

the clerks of the district courts for the respective counties, and
with them they shall authenticate all documents emanating
from their respective offices needing authentication.
§ 658. The supreme and district courts and the probate
court shall procure and keep a seal with such emblems and
L. 1866,
chap. 93,
5 1;O. Sept.
22, 1846.
devices as the court shall think proper.
§ 659. The impression of the seal of any court by stamp
Heals, sufficiency of.
shall be sufficient sealing in all cases where sealing shall be
Id. 52.
required.
§ 660. The seal of the district court for each judicial dis
Seals,
authorized
trict shall be used in all cases where a seal is required, as and for
use of.
the seal of the district court for such district, in and for any
county therein, except in cases where by law the seal of the
probate court is allowed to be used instead of the seal of the
L. 1882,1. ohap. 4, § 1;
March
district court.
§ 661. When no seal is provided, the clerk may use his
Private seal.
private seal for the authentication of any record, process or
proceeding required by law to be authenticated, by the seal of
L. 1865,22, chai
5 3;C. Sept.
184Í
his office.
[Sec. 662 found obsolete and omitted. ]
_ 663. All courts of said Territory shall be held openly
Courte to be public.
and publicly, and all persons whatsoever shall be freely ad
mitted within the same, and permitted there to remain so long
L. 1865.
chap. 27,
{ 1;C. July
12, 1851.
as they shall observe good order and decorum.
§ 664. It shall be within the power of each and every pre
of.Order, preservation siding officer of the several courts of this Territory whether of
record or not of record, to preserve order and decorum, and for
that purpose to punish contempts by reprimand, arrest, fine or
imprisonment, being circumscribed by the usage of the courts
Id. j 2.
of the United States.
§ 665. No judge of the district court shall fine any person
Contempt,
hues
lim
ited.
for contempt or want of respect for the court, in a sum exceed
L. 1866,
chap.Tr.28,
j 2;C. Jan.
14, 1853.
ing fifty dollars, without a trial by jury.
§ 666. The district court shall have original jurisdiction in
a11 cases civil and criminal in which the jurisdiction is not
I
$£?■*'• BPe°ially delegated to some other court, and such apellate and
supervisory jurisdiction as may be given them by law.

L. 1865,
ctlap.
J 8;C. July
12, ISO.

892—§ 1822 1
& 1 822 If any one or other of the owners of the pawn
Hales withoutnotice broker shops shall neglect, or for private interest omj to
penalty.
up notices as specified in the previous sec ion the fault b Bg
proven by any one claiming his pledges, which may have b^
sold by him privately, he shall be fined be ore any 1™^ ofü»
peace, in the county wherein he offends, in a suav not less than
4; Feb. 4,
Tr. tive doijars for the funds of the county.

TITLE XXXIII—PROCEDURE CIVIL.
CHAPTEE I.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sectios
IMS
Bkution. Contracts, construction of
■' lM¡
^
Common law the rnle of practice
1823 Individual liability of partners
Process, style of
1824 Trial; continuance
1MS
Record», reading and correction of
1827
case to be tried anew
m(
Clerk's certificatesufficient authentication, when 1828 Appealed
Interpreters and translators authoriied - ^ ^
Sessions continuous for certain purposes
1829 Attorneys; order of hearing before jury, time ^
Motions against officers, courts to hear
183<> attorneys, court may limit when
m
Rules, authority to make
1831 Construction of the statutes
Court, duty of
1832 Judge* may act in place of each
Venue may be changed, when
1833 Notice of suit, may file; pendency from date ^
Change of venue, second not allowed as a right . . 1834
Endorsement of filing; entry nunc pro tunc
1836 filing - date defined; notice of do effect, -.ben: ^
Pendency
Fnpers may be given to owners by order of the
court mar
older
cancellation
Probate
clerk,
authority
to issue process. m. ^
court
1837
Motion docket to be kept
183H dorsnment required
....ilprdis» ^
Docket, form of how prescribed
1839 Terriwrlal or county suite, power to settle
Cases, disposed of how
1840 continue
18tf
Continuance, application forto be supported by
in vacation
"'
iffli
oath
."
1*41 Dismissal
Dismissal
of
appeal
•
•
18»
New trials and appeals
1842 Dismissal before submission to jury
Rule for costs, defect of
1H43
Poverty, affidavit of entitles to process
1844

ofCommon
praotloe. law,
L.
Jan. T.1876, chap. 2,
Process, style of.
L. 1865,
chap
11;C.July
«1,1851.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.
§ 1 8 2 3. In nil the courts in this Territory the common law
as recognized in the United States of America shall be the rule
of practice and decision.
Montoya vs.
Donohoe.
vol.
page
214,
MM. Rep
Maxwell,style
vol.2,2,of
pá^eall
2.í¡, N.N.writs
Rep.and processes issued by
§ Territory
1824. vs. The
authority of said Territory shall be. "The Territory of Nw

Mexico."
and 1826
substituted
§ [Sections
1 827. 1825The
records
of and
theomitted.
court1 of eacli preceding day of
the term shall be read
—1 **" tlie Blor"'
Records,
reading
-nd corrected in open «^^fE»
and correction of.
ing of the succeeding day, except on the lasi,
^ ^ aml
on which the proceedings of the same day una

894—§ 1828 I
5;j«í'y!fí™.",,-27's

record of th« te™ at the end thereof, be signed by tb,
judge presiding.
.*ltí'*.S?í¡!SSS,! _ § 1828. In ease the presiding judge shall die before sign
sufficient
tion, when.authentica ing the record of any term, or shall from any cause be disabled
from doing so. a certificate by the clerk at the end of such
record of the facts shall be sufficient to authenticate such record,
Id. i 11.
and make it of full force.
(oroertiVpS-palw?'
§ 1829. Hereafter the district courts held in the several
counties of this Territory shall be at all times in session, and
open at any place in the district where the judge thereof may
be for the purpose of hearing and determining motions, de
murrers and petitions, granting rules and orders and interloc
utory decrees, perfecting pleadings and putting causes at issue
in all causes in law and equity, and rendering final decrees in
equity as well as for granting all extraordinary writs, and issní¿.«w.otap.8,ji¡ ing every kind and class' of process that could or might be
issued by said courts at a regular term.
m- § 1 8 30. The district court shall have power to hear and
cei-s, courts ui hear. determine all motions when three days notice shall have been
given against the adverse party, against sheriffs or other officers
for money received on execution, or other process or order of the
court which shall not be paid to the party, his agent or atwf'jai^' iw""ti,n}e-y^ failing or refusing to pay over money received for
their clients, and to render judgment as in other cases.
4? 1 1! •{ I . The justices of the supreme court, and until they
Rules, authority to act the judges of the district courts respectively, may make
make.
—LTWSwTchap.
8~i"2; such rules as mny_ be applicable to proceedings under this act
Feb. 13.
c.l is«6,ch„„. j7, ¡ eanne judgment, sentence or decree of the court to be carried
'
* 1851
into effect according to law.
°*«/«V»i«
S 1833. The venue in all cases, both civil and criminal
■ amendment.:,
shall be changed to some county free from exception, whenever
the judge is interested in the result of such case; and may be
changed in any case in which it shall appear that either party
cannot have justice done him at a trial in the county in winch.
l. 1882, chop.!,, 5r; such case is then pending, or for any other proper cause satis3tory to the judge before whom the motion is made.
Feb. 4
Oeck vs. Shepherd, vol. 1, page 346. N. M. Bep.
§ 1834. A second change of venue shall not be allowed in
Change
of
venue,
iy
civil or criminal case as a matter of right, but shall be
second
right. not allowed n>
chap. mío; within the discretion of the court.
Feb. 12.
ISection 1835 substituted and omitted.]
^
Endorsement oi ai8 1 836. It shall be the duty of the clerk" '"hf "if hereof
is filed in his office, immediately to enter on the d»

PhOCEDÜBÉ CIVIL.

LTIÍ- mUI' CH- 1

896—§ 1837 J
his certificate of the day on which it was filed, in the words,
"Filed in my office this
day of
—, 18—," and sign
his name as clerk to the same. But in case he should at any
time neglect to do so, it may, at the discretion of the court,
Entry nunc pro tunc. guided by the justice of the case, be entered nunc pro tunc
chnp.Tn; In like manner shall all other matters be perfoimed nunc pro
}inri»»,
M, July 12, mil.
tunc when the ends of justice may require it.
Hecou vs. Leroux, vol. 1. page N. M. Hop.
u£rKSS?£!S¿«S § 1837' In a11 cases in wl"ch papers, being private prol)erty have been filed for any purpose whatever, it shall be the
duty of the clerk to give the same out to the proper owner, by
~iSTi~w.
■ order of the court, at any time he may want them, retaining
certified copies thereof in the office.
t Motion
tobt § 1 8 38. The clerk shall keep a motion docket, in which he
-jj-p^
shall enter all motions, which motions shall be disposed of at
each term or continued.
Watts vs. Santa Fe County, vol. I, pane 286, N. M. Kep.
ho^retrited.'11 "'§ 1889. The clerk shall make out such other dockets and
i.i. 5 a. ~
' in such form as the supreme court shall require.by rule.
hoS0988' 'u*»°">*~>« § 1 840. On calling of the docket, all cases shall be tried,
id. s 43.
iu'ii"n»1u™r¿up'po'rt°*°*h'
i «•
¡mS lrl°ls *nA "p"
^ ,

set for trial, or continued.
§ 1841. All applications for a continuance shall be supported by oath unless the facts be within the knowledge of the
court, in which case it shall be so stated on the record.
§ 1842. Motions for new trials, and in arrest of judgment,
suall be entertained; appeal shall also be allowed in a manner

feetKuli

to be provided by law.
§ 1843. In all cases the plaintifff, on motion of any person
interested in the suit or costs, may be ruled to give security for
costs, and in case he shall fail so to do on or before the first
day of the next term after such rule, the case shall abate.

Id. 5 47.

r

poverty, affidavit ot
itMen to process.
'
Id. i 18.
"'('T,*- r™""-'
Contráete", construe
t^iSM"**!

8 1 844. If any person wishing to institute a suit, °*
3 AUTO
j t oath that lie is too poor to
done
so, shall make
w pay
v j tne U
he shall have all and any process of the court free o
__. are
nrú join:
ínillt
mttr18!4"?,' , A11 coutracts. which, by the common 1law,
nly' 8haI1 be construed to be joint and several.
tint, t
1 Cases of Íoint obligations, and joint assunip^dividual
T
id. , sr~Uabilitr.
— {i""loi»
of co-partners,
and others, suits may be brought and prose6(1 n§iuilst a»y one, or more, of those who are so liable.
the wrif
A)I causes shall be tried at the next return term of
«al; continuance.
g . ru, unless continued for good cause. Every cause mj

•898—§ 1848 J

rKOCEDÚRE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXÍII, CH. L

UflfiXI 1* continued by a court upon application ^"^L^
fied by affidavit, showing good cause for such continuance.
1:1 '.i«„. B.W
Dold n. vs.
Dold,
vol. I, pagevol.3«7.1, N.
M.Rep.N. M. Hep.
Thomas
McCurmick,
pageSM),
¿g*. to be Wad § ! 848, AU appealg from inferior tribunftI . to
digtrict
w. » m.
courts shall be tried anew in said courts on their iserits, as if
no trial had been had below.
§ 184.9. The courts may, from time to time, appoint inter
Interpretersnuthorand prefers and translators to interpret the testimony of witnesses,
tran.-lators
and to translate any writing necessary to be translated in such
M. ! 15.
courts or causes therein.
Territory vs. Komine, vol. 2, page 114, N . M. Hep.
§ 1850. Every plaintifff or defendant shall be entitled to be
Attorneys,
hearing
beforeorder
Jury.of heard before the jury by an attorney, and if there be but one
plaintifff or defendant, by two, and when there are several de
fendants having the same or separate defenses and appearing
U-hap.6, m; by the same or different attorneys, the court shall, before argu
FebL.'m
12.
ment, arrange their order.
§ 1851. In the construction of statutes the following rales
Construction of stat shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsist
utes.
ent with the manifest intent of the legislature or repugnant to
theFirst—Words
context of the and
statute
:
phrases
shall be construed according to
Words
and
phrases,
the
context
and
the
approved
usage of the language; but tech
how coustrued.
nical words and phrases, and such others as may have acquired
a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law, shall be construed
according
to such meaning.
Second—Words
importing the singular number may be ex
Words,
import
ex
tended
to
several persons or things, and words importing the
tended.
plural number may be applied to one person or thing, and words
importing the masculine gender only mav be extended to fe
males.
J
J
Third—Words giving a joint authority to three or more pub
lic officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
ity.Authority of major authority to a majority of them, unless it be otherwise expressed
in Foil
the act
giving word
them "oath"
authority.
rfh—The
includes affirmation in all cases
where an affirmation may be substituted for an oatb, and in
nuitiini.''
likeFifth—The
cases the word
word"swear"
"person"includes
may be-'affirm."
extended to bodies cor
"
Person,"
extended
to corporations.
Sixth—The words "written" and "in writing" may include
porate.
printing, engraving or any other mode of representing words
"
Written"
include*
printing; exception. and letters, excepting those cases where the written signature
or mark of any person is required.

900—§ 1852J
^computation of

Seventh—In computing time the first day shall be excluded
and the last included, unless the last falls on Sunday, in which
Frt.' 'if' chap' 6' ! oase "ie *™e Prescribed shall be extended so as to include the
whole of the following Monday.
piaoe8ot SSL ofher1 § 1852. When any justice of the supreme court shall be
wnen' absent from his district, or shall be in any manner incapaci
tated from acting or performing any of his duties of judge or
chancellor, in his district, or from holding court thereiD. any
other justice of the supreme court may perform all such duties,
hear and determine all petitions, motions, demurrers, grant all
id. { m.
rules and interlocutory orders and decrees, as also all extraor
dinary writs in said district.
§ 1853. In allactions in the district courts of this Terri^Notice
j^j^ rosy tory, affecting the title to real estate in this Territory, the
, «u of wo.
plaintifff, at the time of filing his petition, or complaint, or at
any time thereafter, before judgment or decree, may file with
the clerk of the probate court of each county in which the
property may be situate, a notice of the pendency of the suit
containing the names of the parties thereto, the object of the
action, and the description of the property so affected and con
cerned; and if the action is for a foreclosure of a mortgage,
such notice shall contain in addition, the date of the mortgage,
the parties thereto, and the time and place of recording; and
must be filed five days before judgment; and the pendenceof
^pendency from date such action shall be only from the time of filing such notice.
and shall be constructive notice to a purchaser, or encumbran
cer of the property concerned; and any person whose convey
ance or encumbrance is subsequently executed, or subsequently
registered shall be considered a subsequent purchaser or en
cumbrancer; and shall be bound by all the proceedings, taken
l. 1874, chap, in, { i; after the filing of such notice, to the same extent as if he was
Jan. s. tt.

made
party to
said action.
acie a pany
u. the
wo KI„
§ 1 854. For the purpose of this act, it is considered that
Pendency, date of an action is pending from the time of filing such notice: Pro
denned.
vided, further, that such notice shall be of no value; unless it
is followed by the service of such citations or process of cita
Notice
of
no
effect,
when.
tion, or by notice by publication to the defendant, as provided
by law, until sixty days after such filing. And the court in
which said action was commenced, may in its discretion, at any
time after the action shall be settled, discontinue or revoke on
application of any person injured, and for good cause shown,
and under tocL notice as may be directed or approved by the
court, order the notice authorized by this act to be cancelled
by the probate clerk of any county in whose office the same
Court
may
order
ciiiiii'llatlou.
may have been' filed, and such cancellation shall be made by an
" '
«>nt effect upon the filed notice which shall reid. ¡ i.
endorsement to that effect upon
fer to the order.

902—§ 1855 J
tetuprooM.

"**

§ 185 5. In actions of replevin and attachment the declara
tion, affidavit, bond and other necessary papers may be filed in the
office of the clerk of the probate court of the county in which
the suit is brought, and such clerk shall issue, in the name of
the court in which the suit is brought, and under his own hand,
and the seal of the probate court, which for this purpose only is
hereby declared to be equivalent to the seal of the district court,
the proper writ and summons^ with the proper endorsement
thereon, as required by law, and such writ and summons skill
have the same force and effect as if issued by the clerk of the (lisq «ador . . m . „ . re- trict court wherein the suit is brought. The probate clerk shall
endorse upon the papers in such case the fact and date of
nll"g- and at once transmit them to the clerk of the district
M»rci,T' ch""- 4' 8'-; CCmrt wberein the suit is brought, and the cause shall stand in
all respects as if commenced by filing the papers with the clerk
of the
district
court. vol.2, paae 271, N. M. Hep,]
[Holzmnn
vs. Martinez,
lh*Í^\¡™'™'"'""- § } 856. The attorney general and district attorneys of this
<sor ntmie. Territory in their respective districts, when any civil proceed
ings may be pending in their respective districts, in the district
court, in which the Territory or any county may be a party,
whether the same be an ordinary suit, scire facias proceedings,
proceedings growing out of any criminal prosecution, or other
wise, shall have power to compromise or settle said suit or pro
ceedings, or grant a release or enter satisfaction in whole or iu
part, of any claim or judgment in the name of the Territory or
county, or dismiss the same, or take any other steps or pro
ceedings therein which to him may appear proper and right,
and all such civil suits and proceedings shall be entirely under
the management and control of the said attorney general or dis
trict attorneys, and all compromises, releases and satisfactions
heretofore made or entered into by said officers are hereby con
L.
1876,
chnii.
5,
5
1
Jmi, 14
firmed and ratified.
nixmiHsal iu
I ion.
_______
i;i£M*a?*paM

IMsmlpsnl of fippeal.

§ 1857. The plaintifff, in any suit pending in the district
court, may, at any time in the vacation of said court, file in the
clerk's office of said court a written dismissal of his suit, and
said cause from that date shall be considered as dismissed at
*he eost of sai(1 Pontiff, and judgment shall been
ingly at the ensuing term of the district court.
other manner
§ 1858. In all causes appealed, or in "7. fce party
brought from any interior court to any superio
ffia).
appealing, or so bringing said suit into the.sup
ffl g9 ;„
in like manner, dismiss bis appeal m the nam
.g (]is.
the preceding section provided; and wheI' .
^ shall remissed as aforesaid, the judgment in the mterioi

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CHAP. It

o. L. íaatjduip.ao, i main and be in all things as valid, as if said cause had never
been removed from said inferior court.
nbmbaSóu íoVore § 1859. Any cause pending in any court of this Territory
may be dismissed by the plaintifff in said cause, at his costs, at
any time before the same is submitted to the jury in causes
id. s a.
tried by the jury, or before judgment has been rendered in
causes tried by the court.

CHAPTER II.
time ok commencing actions.
Sictiok.
Section
. ^_¡i
«.
1fi«,. Time extended two years for commencing
cm.
Actions may bo brought after causee accrue
1860 """"
lsil
Actions upon certain judgments
1861 | ^^¿^ „ ^.¡nuation ,,'f firs.
j£
Actions upon notes, etc
*- Actions, causes
CBUBM revived
re,iTed by admission
, etc
,<_,.,
Actions upon accounts,
t»»a
_
.
.
.
_l—
w'
accounte,
.. .. .
1863
be lea<i, whsn
Actions agamstsuret.es and public othcers
1861 °¡mitB(i(m not to ¡nclude cerudn time....^ »
Causes, cause
when accrued
l»w ,..,„..„,„.
„,;,,_„_ statutes not
aftecUHjMtia„ i«„
Action,
accrues•, from
1866
Limitation
«v date» of last item
1*7
Limitationsb>not«to^J'
affect certain Mm
causes o.„, w
~
Action commences with filing of papers
* Accounts sufficient evidence
™
Non-res
denee
not
included
1S68
^.
.
„i._m_____ti
nf
.
_.time for
, extended,
. , , when.,
.
.uftu
application
«>i...
Action,
w 1 Limitations,
Possession, ten
years uninterrupted,
given tide;
Limitation extended one year after death, two
provisos
yearn after passage of act
1870 Actions not maintainable, when; pro?!**
TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.
sncé'rne.1"
§ 1860. The following suits or actions may be brought
Actions
-T-se-s
the tlme hereinafter limited, respectively, after their
after
causes¿grmsxm causes accrue, and not afterwards, except when .Otherwise spe
cially provided
1
§ 1861. Actions upon any judgment of any court of record
a"y ?tete or Territory of the United States, or the federal
courts of the United States, within fifteen years.
t, page 563,upon
N..M. Rep.
rtc-C1 "US UIK'n UO""s' , t Stewart
1862.vs. Maxwell,
Those vol.
founded
any bond, promissory note,
~TSrjT.—
°f exchange or other contract in writing, or upon any judg
ment of any court not of record, within six years.
counu.,e.c.
§18b3.
founded upon accounts and unwritten eonActiot__>, OpOQ K
í¿ 1 O/* O Those
m
tracts, those brought for injuries to property, or for the can______
version of personal property, or for relief upon the ground of
traud, and all other actions" not herein otherwise provided for

lainjndgm'SS c<'r"
TaTTT— —r

and specified, within four years.
oSSS """ OTWto ., 8 ]864 Those against sureties upon official bonds and
üose brought against sheriffs and other public officers for or

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. II.

y06—§ 1865 J
l. isa., chap, s, s 6; on Recount of any liability incurred by the doing of any act in
an official capacity, or by the omission of any official duty, and
for the injuries to the person or reputation, within two years.
§ 18G5. In actions for relief on the ground of fraud or
Cause, when ac mistake, and in actions for injuries to or conversion of property,
crued, etc.
the cause of action shall not be deemed to have accrued until
the fraud, mistake, injury or conversion complained of shall
Id. 5 6.
have been discovered by the party aggrieved.
§ 1866. When there is an open current account the cause
Action,
cause
ac of action shall be deemed to have accrued upon the date of the
crues
from date
oí last
item.
last item therein, as proven on the trial.
Id. 5 7. c?i"n">iice« 4} 1867. The filing in the proper clerk's office of the peti^KS
Action
wlth
filing commences
of papers. tion,
. O declaration,
,
r upon
r
bill oor affidavit,
the filing of which pro
cess is authorized by law to be issued, with intent that process
shall issue immediately thereupon, which intent shall be pre
sumed unless the contrary appear; shall be deemed a com
Id. 5 8.
mencement
~l IV'"""" u of
u»- the action
~^
sonwdence not § 1868. If, after a cause of action accrues a defendantwled'
moves from the Territory, the time during which he shall m
non-resident of the Territory shall not be included in computing
Id. j 9.
any of the periods of limitation above provided.
§ 1869. The times limited for the bringing of actions
Actions,when.
time for ex herein shall, in favor of minors and persons insane or under
tended,
any legal disability, be extended so that they shall have one
year from and after the termination of such disability within
Id. 5 10.
to commence
actions.
ono'^eír'aSe^drati^ which
§1870.
If the said
person
entitled to a cause of action the
«¿eoíS.""" PM- ™thi" one year next previous to the expiration of the limita
tion above provided, the representatives of such persons shall
have one year after such death within which to commence said
action, and any person having or being entitled to a cause of
action accrued and existing at the time of the passage of this
act, may commence suit therefore within two years from the
Id. 5 11
passage" of this act
*£!£^™™^ flofi 1 8J1 ■ Tlle Period of
years specified in section 1870,
as tiie time within which any person, who had, or was, entitled
a cause of action accrued and existing at the time of passage of
saw section might commence suit therefore, is hereby extended
tor tJie period of two years from date of this act, so that anJ
-nil - Z
d' °r was" entitled to a cause of action accrued
T^S^nnnrrr is •
f at the iime of the Passage of the act. of which this
* ' ,: ft ' «ue»dment, may commence suit therefore, within two years
from the date of the passage of this act.
j 1872. If, after the commencement of an action, «W
am
f
tIlerel" for any cause, except negligence in its
ution, and a new suit be commenced within six months

rilOCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. IL

008—§ 1873]
L. 18S0,
Jan.
"23.

chap,M12; thereafter, the second suit shall, for tbe purposes herein contemplated, be deemed a continuation of the nrst

Action., «««», re- 8 1 8 7 3. Causes of action founded upon contract shall be
vivedbyadmi^ion. re^ved ■ fln admÍ88i0n that the debt is unpaid, as well as by
a new promise to pay the same; but such admission or new
promise must be in writing, signed by the party to be charged
III. { 13.
therewith
§ 1874. A set-off or counterclaim may be plead as a de
Set-off may be plead, fense to any cause of action, notwithstanding such set-off or
wben.
counterclaim may be barred by the provisions of this act, if
such set-off or counterclaim so pleaded was the property or
right of the party pleading the same at the time it became
barred and at the time of the commencement of the action, and
the same was not barred at the time the cause of action sued
for accrued or originated; but no judgment for any excess of
such set-off or counterclaim over the demand of the plaintifff
III. § U.
as proven shall be rendered in favor of the defendant
U. B. vb. Rowland, vol. 1, pas? 55(1. N M . _
Stiuib, ct ul. vs. Ortiz, vol. 1, pago alo, W. I,.
station not ,o § 1875. When the commencement of any achon h 11
»—»—"-» stayed or prevented by injunction order or "^T™^
ceeding, the time such injunction order or W0^^
continue in force shall not be counted in computing the pen
ill. 1 15
of limitation.
« «taime» not atreot- 8 J » / o. JNone of the provisions of this act shall apply to
Limitation by exist- any
ft action
1 O rj n orXTsuit which,
„
by any particular statute of this Ter
ritory is limited to be commenced within a different time, nor
u~
,p 1 tbls act ,,e construed to repeal any existing statute of the
lerntory which provides a limitation of any action ; but in such
cases the limitation shall be as provided by existing statutes.
'"""'o
. -ertaiii
Of HOtioll.

§ 1877. None of the provisions of this act shall run against
" • ni nations originating in or arising out of trusts, w"
or the « 2 "f irn»^™tly concealed the cause of action,
right thereto
from tLe 1"*7 «.titíed or having the

Id. 5 17.
„
claiming <L Accmmts fl»ly ^rified by the oath of tiie party
¿¿ 2-^,^
eviiKTf">m«™ instrumt,,
«187» AUnP- °r hi" "Sent> *»d promissory notes and other
H-«a

recover inril
* *vldence >" any suit to enable the plaintifff to
or his
f'T ,,for the amount thereof, unless the defendant.
8 ag6Dt' shn11 deny the same under oath,
plv to eV; )
. OVe ,imitations and provisions shall not »pevidences of debt intended to circulate as money; hut

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. IL

910—§ 1880 J
j0n' 23"' ch"p' ' 19; sllnI1' ™ other respects, be applicable in all other actions brought
by or against all bodies corporate or politic, except when other
wise expressly declared.
§ 1 880. In all cases where any person or persons, their
uninterrupted,
g i v e k children, heirs or assigns, shall at the passing of this act or at
",le'
any time after, having had possession for ten years of any
lands, tenements or hereditaments which have been granted by
the governments of Spain, Mexico or the United States, or by
whatsoever authority empowered by said governments to make
grants to lands, holding or claiming the same by virtue of a
deed or deeds of conveyance, devise, grant or other assurance
purporting to convey an estate in fee simple, and no claim by
suit in lnw or equity effectually prosecuted shall have been set
up or made to the said lands, tenements or hereditaments, with
in the aforesaid time of ten years, then and in that case, the
person or persons, their children, heirs or assigns, so holding
possession as aforesaid, shall be entitled to keep and hold in
possession such quantity of lands as shall be specified and de
scribed in his, her or their deed of conveyance, devise, grant
or other assurance as aforesnid, in preference to all, and against
all, and all manner of person or persons whatsoever; and any
person or persons, their children or their heirs or assigns, who
shall neglect or who have neglected for the said term of ten
years, to avail themselves of the benefit of any title, legal or
equitable, which he, she or they may have to any lands, tene
ments or hereditaments, within this Territory, by suit of law or
equity effectually prosecuted against the person or persons so
as aforesaid in possession, shall be forever barred, and the per
son or persons, their children, heirs or assigns so holding M
keeping possession as aforesaid by the term of ten years, shall
have a good and indefeasible title in fee simple to such lands,
tenements or hereditaments: Provided, that if any person or
persons that have been, are, or shall be entitled to commence
and prosecute such suit in law or equity, shall have been, be
Exceptions.
or shall be. at the time of said right or title first descended, or
accrued, come or fallen within the age of twenty-one years.
feme cover/, non compos mentis, imprisoned, or beyond the lim
its of the United States and the Territories thereof, that then
such person or persons, his, her or their children, heir or as
signs, shall or may. notwithstanding the ten years be expiree,
bring his or her legal or equitable action, as he, she or tne
might have done before the passage of this act, so as such per
son or persons, or his, her or their children, heirs or assigns
shall within three years next after his, her or their full 8£V¡¡¡¿
coverture, coming "of sound mind, enlargement out of P"r~coming into the United States or the Territories thereo , >
death, take benefit of and commence such suit, and at no n»

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. Ill

912—§ 1881 j
i¡rch»p.73,¡ after the said three years: Provided, also, that in the con
struction of this saving provision, no cumulative disability shall
I.. 1865,
1: C.Feb.
1 '
prevent the bar aforesaid, but shall only apply to that or those
disabilities which existed when the right to sue first accrued
and no other: And, provided also, that such suit so com
menced shall be a suit prosecuted with effect and no other.
§ 1 í)!í I . No person or persons nor their children or heirs
shall have, sue, or maintain any action or suit, either in law or
equity, for any lands, tenements or hereditaments but within
Actions not niftin ten years next after his, her or their right to commence, have,
tainnblc.
or maintain such suit shall have come, fallen, or accrued, ami
that all suits either in law or equity for the recovery of any
lands, tenements or hereditaments shall be had and sued within
ten years next after the title or cause of action or suits accrued
or fallen, and at no time after the ten years shall have passed:
Provided, that if any person or persons that is or shall be en
titled to commence and prosecute such suit or action in law or
equity be or shall be, at the time of said right or title first ac
crued, come or fallen within the age of twenty-one years, feme
Exceptions.
covert, non compos mentis, imprisoned or beyond the limits of
the United States and the Territories thereof, that then such
person or persons, his, her or their children, heirs or assigns,
shall and may, notwithstanding the said ten years be expired
bring his or her suit or action, as he, she or they might hnve
done before the passage of this act, so as such person or per
sons, his, her or their children, heirs or assigns, shall within
three years next after his, her or their full age, discovertnre.
coming of sound mind, enlargement out of prison, coming into
the United States or the Territories thereof, or death, take
benefit of and commence such suit, at no time after the saw
three years: Provided, also, that in the construction of this
saving exception, no cumulative disability shall prevent Huí
bar, but shall only apply to that or those disabilities which ex
isted at the time when the right to sue first accrued and to W
other: Provided furlher, that such action so commenced shall
Id. 5 2.
be an action prosecuted with effect and no other.

CHAPTER HI.

Actions how prosecuted
Knit
muy joined
be representative,
PtTtHins
tin plaintifffs when
AetiouH muy be brought ngainat whom

PARTIES.
Suction . Actions a^nst^no,-.^- ^
1^
Action* ,lCKinStp»rU*t»wriU<
WH-t Suits ou joint cmtracta
Í8Ü')

18*

914 § 1882]

procedure civil.

Parties may be joined, when . .
Intervention

[Tm xxxiii, oh. in.

INTERVENORS.
Section.
Section.
1890 Petition to Bet forth facts on which intervention
reste
*
18yl

PAIiTIES.
*„■,.,„-. ,„.„ t„ be
8 1882. Every action must be prosecuted in the name oí
proseo°tedthe real party in interest, except as provided m the next secL.
1H8Ü.
chap.
»,»!:,.
r
i..
1H80,
chap.
6,
¥
,.
Feb. 12.
tlOn
presenSveiwhen."'§ 1883. All executor or administrator, a guardian, a trus
tee of an expressed trust, a party with whom or in whose
name a contract is made for the benefit of another or party ex.
pressly authorized by statute, may sue in his own name without
! 2.
joining with him the party for whose benefit the suit is prose
piiuñiiffa". Joln<'"
IdTTs:

cuted.
§ 1884. All persons having an interest in the subject of
yh.e action, and, in obtaining the relief demanded, may be
joined as plaintifffs, except when it is otherwise provided by
law.

Chavez
1, page
M. Rep.company, vol. 3, page 8, W. ('. Kep
Hem' etvs.
aLMoKnight,
MaxwellToL
Lund
Grant117,andN.Railway
eh" acaKiBt 8 1885. Av here two or more persons are bound by contract.
Actions
or by judgment, decree or statute, whether jointly only, or
br
ou
whom
jointly or severally, or severally only, and including the parties
to negotiable paper, common orders and checks, and sureties
on the same, or separate instruments, or by any liability grow
ing out of the same, the action thereon may, at the option of
the plaintifff, be brought against any or all of them; when any
of these so bound are dead, the action may be brought
against any or all of the survivors, with any or all of the rep
resentatives of the decedents, or against any or all such repre
sentatives. An action or judgment against any one or more of
T«TTT.
several parties jointly bound, shall not be a bar to proceedings
against
the others.
§ 1880.
Suits may be brought by or against a partnership
as >jsuch, or against all or either of the individual members
Actions
against
partuin-ships, or individ thereof; and a judgment against the firm as such may be enthereof; and a judgment against „„■ „ 1„ nl. that 0f such
rorced against the partnership's property, or that "of
uemoers as have appeared or been served with summons, But
a new action may be brought against the other members in the
>artoriginal cause of action, -«'lien the action is against the partneisiiip as such, service of summons on one of the members,
Id. 5 6.
personally,
be the
sufficient
on any
the firm.
3 1 887. shall
When
preciseservice
name of
defendant can not
e ascertained lie may be described as accurately as practicable,
Defendant
may
be
described.
w when the name is ascertained it shall be substituted in the
Id. } 7.
uieuu. ^S"i»«r"ur: proceedings.
§ 1888. When an action is founded upon a written instra•nt, suit may be brought by or against any of the part'®

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. IT.

916—§ 1889]
L. 1880, chap. 6, 5 8; thereto by the same name and description as those by which
they are designated in such instrument
traps'" on iolDt 0<m"
§ 1889. All contracts which by the common law are joint
only shall be held and construed to be joint and several; and in
all cases of joint obligations or assumptions by partners and
others, suit may be brought and prosecuted against any one
or more of the parties liable thereon, and when more than one
person is joined as defendant in any such suit, such suit may
l. 1878, chap. 4, ss; be prosecuted anil judgment rendered against any one or more
of such defendants.
INTERVENORS.
Partiesm«7be join- § ] 890. Any person who has an interest in the matter in
litigation in the success of either of the parties to the action, or
ed, when.
igationboth,
m the
success
oi euum
WJ to
wainst
may
become
a partv
i- an
—,„ action Kot-wppn
between other
as
persons,
either by joining the plaintifffin claiming what is sought
by the declaration or by uniting with the defendants in resistlug the clflil" of the plaintifff, or by demanding anything ad4. ohap- 1 12; yersely to both the plaintifff and defendant, either before or after
issue has been joined in the cause and before the trial commences.
§ 1891. The court shall determine upon the intervention
Intervention.
at the same time that the action is decided, and tbe iutervenor
shall have no right to delay, and if the claim of the iutervenor
is not sustained he shall pay all the costs of the intervention.
Id. } 18.
§ 1892. The intervention shall be by petition, which mast
Petition
to pet inter
forth set forth the facts upon which such intervention rests, and all
tacts
on
which
the pleadings therein shall be governed by the same rules and
vention rests.
principles as obtained in other pleadings. If such petition is
filed during the term, the court shall direct the time in which
Id. { U.
an answer shall be filed thereto.

CHAPTER IV.
WHERE SUITS MAY BE BROUGHT.
A«« cml,
• where to be commenced
Section,
Actions,
l8i>3 iI Buitó may be brought before justte. where.... IS0,
1*
WHERE SUITS MAY BE BROUGHT.
§ 1 893. All civil actions which may hereafter be commen
ced in the district courts, shall be brought and shall be com„oounwresidenee. menced
in counties
as follows,
notbeotherwise
First—AÜ
transitory
actionsand
shall
brought : in the ooM J
where either the plaintifff or defendant, or some one of them,
case there be more than one of either, resides; Second-^
°w

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH, Y.

918—§ 1895J
County where found. the county where the contract sued on was made or is to be
performed, or where the cause of action originated or indebted
ness sued on was incurred; Third—Or in any county in which
the defendant or either of them may be found in the judicial
district where the defendant resides: Provided, that if suit is
brought against any defendant out of the county but within
the judicial district, in which he resides, process shall be per
sonally served on such defendant, not less than fifteen days
before the first day of the term to which the process shall be
returnable, and if brought in any judicial district other than
that in which the defendant or either of them resides, pro
cess shall be served on such defendant or defendants, not less
than thirty days before the first day of the term to which said
process
may be made
Second—When
the returnable.
defendant has rendered himself liable
Where
property
may
to
a
civil
action
by
any criminal act, suit may be instituted
be found .
against such defendant in the county in which the offense was
committed, or in which the defendant may be found or in the
county
where the suit
plaintifff
resides. for the recovery of personal
Third—When
is brought
Where land is i
property
other
than
money,
it may be brought as above pro
ate.
vided, or in the county where the property may be found.
Fourth—When lands or any interest in lands are the object
of any suit in whole or in part, such suit shall be brought in
the county where the land or any portion thereof is situate.
Fifth—Suits for trespass on land shall be brought as pro
vided in the first paragraph, or in the county where the land or
anySixth—Suits
portion thereof
mayisbesituate.
brought against transient persons or
Non-renidentn
and
transients.
non-residents in any county of this Territory.
~~L. 1876,
Jan.
7. chap. 2, 6 1;
Gyck vs. Shepherd, vol. 1. juiiie 3(6, N. M . Rep.
1891 substituted
and omitted
§ I Sec
1895.
Hereafter,
civil. | suits before a justice of the peace
Suits
may
be
may
be
brought
and
prosecuted
in the precinct where the
brought, where.
plaintifff or defendant, or some one of them, if there be more
than one of either, resides, or in the precinct where the con
tract was made, or is to be performed, or where the cause of
L.
1878,
chap.
10,
!
1
.Inn. 24.
action originated.

CIIAPTEK V.

Summons, clerk to issue...

PHOOE8S—SERVICE OF.
Section. 1
1896 j Issue imd delivery..

gKrilo»

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[tit. mm, ch. v.

920—§ 1896]
Section. Declaration, petition and bill of complaint, not
Manner of serving
1898
necessary to serve
Notice by publication, when authorized; price,
day
■ '
limitation of
1809 Return
Service, evasion of, ground for attachment
Notice, form ot; proofs
1803 Marshal to act, when
Notice, when sufficient and valid
I901 Service may be authorized

^
^
»»
igM

PROCESS SERVICE OF.
§¿1896. When a| declaration or bill shall be filed in the
office of the clerk of the district court such clerk shall at once
make out a summons or subpoena to the defendant or defend*' ! 2; an*S' anc* en^orse thereon a brief statement of the nature of the
action and the amount of damages claimed.

^summon,, cierk to
Feb is™:

issue and delivery.

§ 1897. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the district
court, whenever a petition is filed, to make out a true certified
copy of the original writ, which he shall deliver to' the sheriff
of the county, whose duty it shall be to serve the same on the
uÜtSgSSHo.?"
defe»dant by delivering to him the said copy at least five full
' o. l. isas, ooap. sr;i days before the first day of term of court, exclusive of the day
36; jniy is, un.
. on ^ich service is made, and the said first day of the term.
Gallegos vs. Pino, vol. 1, patfe 410, N. M. Rep.
serviceof.
§ 1898. All original process from any of the courts in this
Territory shall be executed by the proper officer as follows:
First—By reading the original process to the defendant, and
delivering
a copy
thereof ifa copy
required.
Second—By
delivering
of the orginal process to the
defendant.
Third—It the defendant be absent, by delivering a copy of
the original process to some person residing at the usual ph*
of abode of the defendant, over fifteen years of age.
Fourth—li no such person be found willing to accept a cop.V
of the process as above provided for, then by posting the same
in the most public part of the defendant's premises.
Provided always, that the clerk or officer issuing such pro
cess, shall be required to endorse thereon, the nature of the suit,
the amount of the damages claimed, and for what demand tie
suit is brought: Provided further, that if any such defendant
shall refuse to hear the process read, or to accept a copy thereüfSKÍij*7^ of from the proper officer, it shall be deemed good service »
law. INoTlt—For service on corporations, see Title 5, 8ec.\218.]
. i,:- -cwnt or
§ 1899. When any plaintifff or complainan^biB^^
Notice,
when
author
attorney, in any civil cause pending, or lieiea
office
ized.
in any court of record in this Territory shaU we .
of the clerk of said court, a sworn petition, di
^
or affidavit, showing that the defendant, or an)
Territory.
them in said cause, resides, or has gone out o

922—§ 1900 1
has concealed himself within it, has avoided service of process
on him, or is in any other manner so situated that process
cannot be served upon him or them ; or that his or their names,
or place of residence is unknown, or that his or their where
abouts cannot be discovered; in such case it shall be the duty
of the said clerk to publish a notice of the pendency of said
cause, to said defendant or defendants, in some newspaper
published in the county where the cause may be pending; and
if there be no newspaper published in said county, then hi
some newspaper published in the Territory, or by not less than
six hand bills put up in six public places in said county: Pro
vided, that no publisher of any newspaper shall be authorized
irioe, limitan™ ot. or allowed to charge more than one dollar and twenty-five
cents for every fifty words of said notice, for each insertion
thereof, unless by special agreement; and should there be no
newspaper found in said county, willing to insert said notice
on the terms aforesaid; then the same may he published in
T^B™' chap, is, jT; any other newspaper published in the Territory, or by hand
bills as aforesaid.
Speigelberg v». Sullivan, vol. 1, page 575, N. M. Hop.
Smith vs. Montoyu, vol. 1, page 152, W. 0. Kep.
,3"' 'orm of; § 1^00. The notice provided for in the previous section
shall conform as far as practicable in form, time and substance,
to the laws governing publication in causes of attachment: and
the proof of the publication shall be made in the same manner,
as in causes of attachment, except when the said publication
shall be by hand bills, in which case, the affidavit of the person
putting up the hand bills shall be required instead of that of
the publisher of the newspaper, and said publication when
made in the following form, shall be deemed and held sufficient
in law, to-wit :
A
B
)
in THE DISTRICT COURT,
VS.
V ss.
C
D
)
County of
The said defendant C— D—, is hereby notified that a suit
*n
has been commenced against him in the district court
for the county of
, Territory of New Mexico by said plaintifff (or complainant), A
B
, damages claimed
dol
lars, (or the nature of the relief prayed for, if in chancery)
that unless you enter your appearance in said suit, on or before
the first day of the next
term of said court, commencing
on the
day of18— judgment by default (or decree
pro confesso) therein will be rendered against you.
Id. S 2.
X. Y
-,
Clerk
§ 1901. The publication of the notice being made, and
Notice,
when sufli- the fact proven, and return made of the same according to, ana
olunt
and valid.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.
924—§ 1902 1
^. iTO, chap. i6, !3; as prescribed in the foregoing sections, the same shall be considered and taken as sufficient notice, or summons, and valid in
law; and the plaintifff or complainant thereupon may prosecute
his said cause to a conclusion under the same.
« MUjtf compffitaE § 1902. In all suits brought in any of the district courts
MOe~ry,°""6- °f the Territory of New Mexico, it shall hereafter not be
necessary for any purpose whatsoever to serve upon the defendAL.i88ilCh»p.1o,U: ant or defendants in said suit any copy of the declaration,
petition, or bill of complaint, filed by plaintifff or complainant.
~cfira^,r¿hnp 27, § 1 90S. All original process in any suits shall be returned
( 37; amy is, 186i.
on the first day of the term next after its issuance.
£ § 1904. Whenever any sheriff shall return that the defend
ground for^attafc ant is not to be found in his county, or that he secretes himself
or absconds, so that he cannot make service upon him in the
w. i as.
ordinary way, the plaintifff may sue out a writ of attachment to
be governed by the laws and rules regulating other attachments.
Marshal to act,
£lnn~
*
,i hm8 I»U5. mi.
lhat whenever
the sheriff of any county of• tins
Territory,
shall
be
a
party
to
a
suit,
or
shall
be
absent,
dead,
or
when.
shall, in any other manner, be incapacitated from the discharge
oi tue duties of his office, the process, in any proceedings, shall
l'tábTMS5^? be directed to the marshal of the Territory, who is hereby
fully empowered to execute the same.
§ 1906. Until a vacancy shall be filled by the election and
qualification of a sheriff, or when the sheriff shall be a party to
the suit, or otherwise disqualified from serving the process, the
court or officer issuing the process shall have the power to issue
such process in all cases directed to some proper person, who
is hereby fully authorized to serve such process and return tie
same properly served, under oath, and such service shall have
«2; the same force and effect as if it had been made by any regnL. 1H67, chop. 32, »
,an- Mlar sheriff of the Territory

be8aShor'ted.° may

CHAPTEB VI.
SHOOS
PLEADINGS.
1)11
Section. Pleas of all matters pertinent admissible
Hi!
Suits commenced byfiling declaration; pleadings
IMS
Pleading,
extension
of
time
and practice as at common law
190? Reconvention and
"" HI!
Court shall determine sufficiency of
1V08
assigneeactum found, d on
Form not material
I'1111 Action
ofbyset-off;
Amendments allowed before decree
r911 Pleas
Hon.
arising
out of; fontral',5'ad,0¿¡Lie.*"™ ,:"
Pleats in abatement sbull bennderoath
1012 Hling necessary;
evmence no ad,
^
Order of
1013 Written instrument admitted in »
1«Signature, denial of
1914
lixecution of contract to be denied under oath . 1'.'!.-> proviso

926^§ 1907]

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. VI.

PLEADINGS.
§ 1907. All suits at law in the district courts shall be com
menced by filing a declaration in the office of the clerk of the
court, and the pleadings and practice shall be according to the
Pleadings
and
prac
tice as at common law. forms and rules of the common law; and all suits in equity
shall be commenced by filing a bill in the office of the clerk of
L. 1878, chap. 4, 5 1;
Feb. 15.
the court.
c/1.», 3S?S: t ^ 1 908. When any matter is plead by either party, at any
wnmae.
stRge of the cause, within the time of pleading, it shall be the
duty of the court, before the same is submitted to the jury, to
imw^SmT"' c°Ilslder an(1 determine upon the sufficiency of the matter.
' •
whether excepted to or not
[ Section 1MÍI substituted and omitted]
§ 1 9 1 0. No want of form shall be sufficient cause for abat
Form uot material. ing any matter plead, provided the court can see in it sufficient
matter upon which to base a decree or judgment; and when
legal exceptions are sustained, the opposite party shall have
Id. f 26.
leave to amend.
Seligman va. Armijo. vol. 1, page 151), N. M. Rep.
§ 1911. Each party, by leave of the court, shall have leave
Amendments
allow
¡ 27. ~
*° nmen'l. upon such terms as the court may think proper, at
ed beforo
any time before verdict, judgment or decree.
Heal] vs. Territory, vol 1, pane 507, N. M. Rep.
p<ie?on'h. °bolBU""" § 1912. All pleas in abatement, except pleas to the jurisi
- diction as to the subject, shall be under oath.
Heck vs. Shepherd, vol. 1, page3«, N. M Rep.
§ 1 9 J 8. The order of pleading shall be as follows, that is
to
say:
First—legal exceptions. Second—pleas in abatement:
Pleading, order of.
firsi—to the jurisdiction as to the subject matter; second—as
to local jurisdictions; third—as to the disabilitv or misnomer
of the person, either the plaintifff or the defendant Third-an
Id. 5 29.
swerDonalson
in barvs.ofSfin
theMiguel
action.
Comity, vol. 1. page 263, N M. Rep
Overland Dispatch Co vs. Wedeles, vol. 1, page 528. N. M. Rep.
§ 1914. When any party to a suit, either as principal or
Blgnature, denial oí. security, or endorser, founded on any written contract cove
nant or agreement whatsoever, shall deny his signature, he shall
Id. s 30.
do §the
same
1 91
5. under
In all oath.
cases where a suit has been instituted upon
any§ writing
obligatory, or may be so instituted, the execution
Execution
o
1
con1915.
tract,
to be denied un of the instrument shall be regarded as proven, and the plea of
rier oath.
non est factum shall be regarded as unavailing, until the per
son filing such piea Bhau hnve made oath tflat he never executed
the said instrument nor authorized any person to execute it for
hi. i
Limaet al.. ye. Mohr. vol. J, page B78, W. C. Rep
Htaab etid , vs Jaremillo. vol 1, page 57, W C. Bep

b/mSngdSSitoT1

PBOCEDÜRE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. YL

928—§ 1916J
«-.cu»**» §1916. Each party may plead as many ^«^7
s^£^^ think proper, provided that they are pertinent to the cause.
SI;iÍTÍL- § 1917. Upon good cause, supported by oath, the court
of time.
may extend the .time of pleading.
Td7i~«
8 1918. Each party may plead any matter arising out of
Reconvention a u il 6o 1910.
'"-J™»,finTi
r-_—- n.ll(i. set-oft.
íu± transaction
' iiauu in reconvention
TTTS:
the same
and set-oH.
§ 1919. In case of the assignment of a thing in action,
Action by nssismee the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any
set-off, counterclaim or other cause of action oi defense, whether
matured or not, if matured when plead, existing in favor of
the defendant against the assignor, before notice of the assign
ment; but this shall not apply to negotiable instruments trans
ferred in good faith, and upon valuable consideration before
L. 1830, chap. 6, 5 i
Feb- 12maturity
iturity.
§ 1920. A defendant may plead as a set-off or counter
Pitias of pet-off .
claim any of the following matters, and may recover judgment
thereon if proved, for any excess thereof over the plaintifffs
Action founded on
contract.
contract*: " " *
Action arising" out ofj
¡ontractp.
Id. i ll

First—When
the: action is founded on contract, a cause of
demand
as proved
action also arising on contract, or ascertained by the decision
or Second—A
a court, or, cause of action in favor of the defendants, or
some of them against the plaintifffs, or some one of them,
arising out of the contracts or transactions set forth in the
declaration or connected with the subject of the action.

U. 8.V8. Howl&nd,
vol. To11, page""eo
550.516, W. C. Bep.
0rtiz'
«Jí^ Btaab, et jal. When
any instrument
of writing upon which the
action or defense is founded is referred to in the pleadings,
ine original or a copy thereof shall be filed with the pleading.
«„rn
,6 P°wer or contro1 of the party wishing to use the
•
he? '
• SUCh originil1 or a copy thereof be not filed as
BibK^r01
J
Wqmred, or a sufficient reason given for failure to do
T:: i^EpTTpí. , °' SUÍ ™*™«»* of writing shall not be admitted in evidence
Filing neceMary.

" upon
dIpi /the trial."ben a written instrument is referred to in a
Marcni.
P eat
ing, andTTT,
the same or a copy thereat is incorporated in, or
Written
instrument
W riueu msirum«ui Í 8 1 Q, 91 Oto. suc"
pleading, the genuineness and due execution
admitted
when. in pleading i sucli written instrument and of every endorsement thereon
Miau be deemed admitted, unless in a pleading or writing filed
, . ,cause within the time allowed for pleading, the same be
aenied under oath: Provided, that if the party desiring tocosxnT
% S<Une is' uPon reasonable demand, refused an in
Proviso.
spection of such instrument, the execution thereof shall not be
seemed admitted by failure to deny the same under oathoucn demand must be in writing filed in the cause, and served
«pon the opposite party or his attorney: Provided, that the

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

¡>IT. XXXIII, CH. VII.

930—§ 1023 J
-TT^r^Tli provisions of this section shall not apply to deeds of conveyMflrchl
ance of real estate.

CHAPTER VII.
ATTACHMENTS.
Section.
Section. Attachment, probate clerk may iesne writs; re
Attachment, action by, available in what cases . . 1923 turnable, when
1
Procedure in cases begun by attachment
1H24
Affidavit, form of
Appearance, when; trial; procedure
form property,
of
Perishable
court may hear testimony
Torts, attachment may issue, when
1^26 Bond,
Attachment, procedure for commencing nuil. . . . 1927
concerning
Affidavit, substance of
1928 Bale may be ordered; conditions...
Bond, how executed; conditions
1929 Receiver, judge may appoint, when
Sureties shall be residents of Territory
1930 Proceeds, court to direct disposal of
1931 Compensation to receiver
Bond, clerk to approve
*'1932
Bond, who may sue on
Attachment, ancillary suit
!'/>'
1983
Writs, how directed; command of
suits, method of procedure
li
1934 Ancillary
Writs, service of; judgment, how rendered
Attachments,
dismissal,
when
i<>:;"> Corporate shares subject to attachment; endorse li»;!
Writs, how to be served
1936
Garnishee, who to be summoned
ment by officer; service, effect of
(iarnisliment, effect ol notice; what subject to . . 1937 Transfers void, when; sales, how made
1Ü38 Certificate, authority for transfer
Publication, when and how
11139 Jurisdiction acquired, when;procedure ifdefend 1*1
Publication, officer may make, when
1940 ant, dies
Judgment by default, effect of
1941 Additional security required, when
Possession retained, how
I'.'*
iy42
Ki'tnrn to include, what
when
justices, when
•
1943 Capias, by
Officer responsible, when
Defendant may answer; affidavit, facts of to be
Capias,
service of;how
discharge, when
Denial allowed,
■'"
proven and interrogatories; garnishee, an 1914 Trial,
when; exceptions, filing and determina Vir
Allegations
194S
swer of; judgment by default
tion to be filed, when
1946 Answer
Judgment by default, procedure
Denial by plaintifff, and trial
1947 Answer when no exceptions
Judgment against garnishee, when
1948
r.U'.i Pleadings subsequent
Costs, how adjudged .
ATTACHMENTS.
. f„ nne hundred
,
...
Creditors,
^hose
demands
^^¿¿^
by
Attachment,
action
1923.
dollars
or
more,
may
sue
their
debtors
m
the
district
by, when.
attachment,
ljfT.V.11 HIV.!' U, in
111 the following<_7 cases, to™d(jnt ^ nor resides"1
First—When the debtor is not a
Non-resident.
the deb r has concealed himself, or ab
thisSecond—When
Territory.
sconded,
or absented
Second—When
thehimself
debtorfrom his usual place of abode a
(J
ou
c
e
a
1
e
d
or
absi'imdeil.
this Territory, so that the ordinary process of law cannot be
Third—When
the debtor is about to remove his propert}' or
passed
upon
out ofhim.
this Territory; or has fraudulently concealed or
Removing property. effects
disposed of his property or effects so as to defraud, binder, or
delay his creditors.

932—§ 1924 J

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

y^olent" con- ' Fourth—When the debtor is about fraudulently to convey
or assign, conceal or dispose of his property or effects, so as to
hinder, delay or defraud his creditors.
otDT£ric££'c,ed OTt Fifth—When the debt was contracted out of this Territory,
and the debtor has absconded or secretly removed his property
i^emíü'iSe?-31'5 or effects into the Territory, with the intent to hinder, delay, or
his creditors.
TaXS"0"* °nt °' defraud
Sixth—Where
the defendant is a corporation whose principal
office or place of business is out of this Territory, unless such
corporation shall have a designated agent in the Territory,
upon whom service of process may be made in suits against
theSeventh—Where
corporation.
the defendant fraudulently contracted the
debt or incurred the obligation respecting which the suit is
brought, or obtained credit from the plaintifff by false pretenses.
an attachment may issue on a demand not yet due in any case
Dw.^iOTfp'"'M; wnere an attachment is authorized, in the same manner as upon

trJc"udnlei"

demands already due.
BpiMtelberg vs. Hirach 4 Co., vol. *. page 129, W. C. Rep.
Waldo vs. Bcckwith, vol. 1., page 97, N. M. Rep.
begun o,- attachment § 1 924*. In all cases commenced by attachment issued on a
Procedure In cases demand or demands not yet due, it shall be sufficient for the
piamtitt to file in the office of the clerk of the district court an
affidavit and bond as now required by law, but he shall not
hie m such office his petition or declaration until after said de
mand or demands shall become due. If such demand or de
mands become due during a term of the court from which the
attachment issued, said plaintifff shall file his declaration with
in such reasonable time thereafter as may be fixed by the court:
and if said demand or demands become due at any time when
the court from which the attachment issued is not in session,
said plaintifff shall file his declaration within twenty (lavs after
the last of such demands shall become due unless the judge of
Sf+ *?Urt Shn11 for &ood CilU8e shown enlarge said time, and
after the declaration is filed as hereinbefore provided, the suit
L.
1884,
chap.
2,
5
1;
April 3.
shall proceed the same as in ordinary cases.

Appearance, wheD.

Trial, procedure.

issued „„
,
term to which any writ of attachment
the« jdef/T 1 , and not yet due shall be made returnable,
case and f
Sha11 be re1uired to aPPear generally in the
truth ,,f
m!>y Put ln his answer, without oath, denying the
the rJ*Lr*7 matenal f«ct contained in the affidavit to which
the • ffi i I Tl r(,P'-v' n,ld thereupon a trial of the tnühoí
If u'om,
i 1 ''e had in tlle maimer now provided bylaw,
the „nl T
PH] thfi issue is fo'""l in fav«r of the defendant.
ment shall be dissolved, but such dissolution shall

FEOCEDUBE CIVIL.

[TIT XXXIIL OH. VIL

934—§ 1926]
l. 1884, ch«u "27 ¡T; not abate the suit, and the defendant shall be held to be in
'
court so that he may be ruled to plead to the plaintifff's declar
ation when the same is filed in the manner, and within the time
hereinbefore provided.
Staab y» Hirsch, vol. 2, page 425, W. C. Bep.
ra»j,4lué."'u":hn"i"t § 1926. Wherever an attachment may issue against the
property of any person upon any debt or other action founded
upon a writ of contract for the same causes, the attachment
may also issue upon any action founded upon a tort or other
l. ism, chap. 5, |T¡ action ex-delido, this law shall applv to actions which have
Mnrch '2
*•
heretofore or may hereafter accrue.
m f
. credit»r wishing to sue his debtor by attach
Attachment, proce ment, may place in the clerk's office of the district court of any
dure.
county m tins Territory a petition or other lawful statement of
i is cause of action, and shall also file an affidavit and bond; and
■oran» -"w? S,"Ch oreditors ma7 sue out an original attachment
! 2,- sépt. g W'
f1lnBt we lands, tenements, goods, monies, effects and credits
or the debtor in whosesoever hands they may be.
Bennett, eta]., „. Zabri.ki, vol. 2, page 8, N . M . Hep.
a—*.
§ 1928. The affidavit shall be made by the plaintifff, or
^OITti,eJrSO" for lnm' an(1 sha]1 state that the defendant is justly
or.
indebted to the plaintifff, after allowing all just credits and off
sets, irf a sum (to be specified in the affidavit), and on what ac
count; and shall also state that the affiant has good reason to
believe, and does believe, the existence of one or more of the
causes which, according to the provision of section 1923 will
Id. Í 3.
entitle the plaintifff to sue by attachment.
Bennett vs. Zabrfald, vol. 2, page 176, N. M. Rep.
§ 1 929. The bond shall be executed by the plaintifff or
Bond,conditions.
how to be exe some responsible person as principal, and two or more securi
cuted;
ties, residente of the Territory, in a sum at least double the
amount sworn to, payable to this Territory, conditioned that
the plaintifff shall prosecute his action without delay and with
effect and refund all sums of money that may be adjudged to
-I5-TJ
be ^funded to the defendant, and pay all damages that may
accrue to any defendant or garnishee by reason of this attachsurety *„„ ,,
re.we.„»

ment'
°r 8ny Tbe
Pn,cess
of judgment
thereon. bonds shall be resi
§ \ 93<).
securities
on attachment
dents of this Territory, and shall acknowledge the execution of
such bond by them, in the manner, and before such officer, as
.oap.i8,!2; may be prescribed by law for the acknowledgment of convey

8 1931.
clerk shall judge of the sufficiency of the pennnces
of real The
estate.
"ty and the security in the bond; if they be approved, he shall
■dorse his approval thereon, and the same, together with the
endorse his approval thereon, and trie- buuic,
cnn66 ot
■ • —* „f the cause
affidavits and petition or other lawful statemei
^
C.
L.
1H65,
chap.
,rí
¡
action
an ati
attachment snau v
!»; sept. -AitMfi.
action? Rl,„ll
shall he
be filed
filed before
before an

Bond, clerk to
prove.

936—§ 1932]

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[tit. xxxiii, chap, ra

on- '
-&19.^- The bond given by the plaintifff, or other person
d. — v
f1 ?, SU by att^ment, may be sued on by any party injured,
^epVinST31'' m?ie na,me °f the Territory, and shall proceed L in ordinary
suits, and shall recover such damages as lie may sustain. '
Holzman vs. Martinez, vol 2, paite 271, N. M. Bep.
Write,; command
how to be of.di +1 ^ l93« .°riSinal writs of attachment shall be directed to
rected
tne sheriff of the proper county, commanding him to attach the
defendant, by all and singular, his lands and tenements, goods,
monies, effects, and credits, in whosesoever hands the same
may be found, with a clause of the nature and to the effect of
Id. 5 7.
an ordinary citation to answer the action of the plaintifff
wnts »ervic« of.

§ 1934. Original writs of attachment shall be issued and
returned in like manner as ordinary writs of citation; and when
the defendant is cited to answer the action, the like proceed. .
lng.s sha11 be Lftd between him and the plaintifff as in ordinary
b.£S5S5.' h°w *° actions on contracts, and a general judgment may be rendered
TdTST
for or against the defendant.
Spiegelberg v«. Sullivan, vol. 1, pa«o 575, N. M Rep.
§ 1935. The manner of serving writs of attachment shall
Writ*, service of.
be First—The
as follows: writ, or other lawful statement of the cause of
As a citation.
action, shall be served on the defendant as an ordinary citation.
Second—Garnishees shall be summoned by the sheriff, de
Garnishees.
claring to them that he summons them to appear at the return
term of the writ to answer the interrogatories which may be
exhibited by the plaintifff, and by reading the writ to them if
Title to lands.

required.
Third—When lands or tenements are to be attached, the of
ficer shall briefly describe the same in his return, and state that
he attached all the right, title and interest of the defendant to
the same, and shall moreover give notice to the actual tenants,

if any
there be.
Fourth—When
goods and chattels, monies, effects, or enGoods,
etc.,
in
cus
dences
of debt are to be attached, the officer shall seize the
tody.
same and keep them in his custody if accessible, and if not ac
cessible he shall summon the person in whose hands they may

Id. $ 9.

be Fifth—When
as garnishee. the credits of the defendant are to be attached,
the officer shall declare to the debtor of the defendant that »
attached in his hands all debts due from him to the defendantor so much thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy the debt,
interest, and costs, and summon such person as garnishee.

Smith vs. Montoya, vol. 1, page 152, W. C. Rep.
§ 1936. All persons shall be summoned as gn™isuees who
§
1 9 36. All persons shall be summoiieu <•» e ■ ^ ufficers
heGarnishees,
summoned. who to are named as such in the writ,
—u and such
nnnrl others
otnere !

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. VIL
938—§ 1937]
o.l^^.»,i shall find in the possession of goods, money or effects, of the
jo; sep. 22, XM6.
defendant not actually seized by the officer and creditors o W
defendant, and also such as the plaintifff or his agent shall di
rect.
Zanzvs. Stover, vol. 2, page 29, N. M. Hep.
"itnto"ce;
what effect
"ub- fi?• 1 Q o 7V, JNotlee
OarnMunoit,
XT i- ofe garnishment shall have the effect of at
taching all personal property, money, rights, credits, bonds,
mils, notes, drafts, checks, or other choses in action, dne, or to
become due, from the garnishee to the defendant, or belonging
to the defendant and in the garnishee's possession, or charge,
or under his control at the time of the service of the garnish
ment, or which may come into his possession, or charge, or un•A i S ?°ntro1' or' for' or on account of which he may become
indebted to the defendant, between that time, and the time of
filing his answer; but he shall not be liable to a judgment in
money on account of such bonds, bills, notes, drafts, checks, or
other choses in action, unless the same shall have been con
verted into money since the garnishment, or he fail in such
time as the court may prescribe to deliver them into court, or
to the sheriff, or other person designated by the court Any
debt or legacy, due or to become due, by an executor, or ad
ministrator, and any goods, effects or credits in the hands of an
executor, or administrator as such, may be attached in his
hands by process of garnishment, and in like manner money,
—
effects, and credits, due or belonging, or to become due to an
5 3;i»™á,ciím.p-17' executor or administrator as such, may be attached in the
hands of the debtor or person holding the same.
amlPublication
*°w»*>». nn
W hen the defendant cannot be cited, and his pro
when Í28 11HOn
perty or effects shall be attached, if he do not appear and an
swer to the action at the return term of the writ, within the
first two days thereof, the court shall order a publication tobe
made, stating the nature and amount of the plaintifffs demand,
and notifying the defendant that his property has been attached,
and that unless he appears at the next term, judgment wül he
rendered against him, and his property sold to satisfy the same;
which notice shall be published four weeks successively in some
newspaper printed in this Territory, the last insertion to be not
less than two weeks before the first day of the next term: hut
if there should be no newspaper printed in this Territory, said
notice shall be published by not less than six hand bills put up
ui;s¿pt.aa,u5£:M- ,.S1X different public places in the county, at least six weeks
day
next
term. in regard to attachments.
ma, maké!™'heSfwr before
. § 1 Í)the
39. first
The
lawofofthethis
Territory
is so amended, that where the defendant cannot be served per
sonally with the process, and shall have no place of residence
in this Territory, and the property of the defendant shall have
'ii attached in time to make the necessarfpnblication as no»

940—§ 1940]

procedure civil.

[tit. xxxiii, ce. ra.

required by law, the officer executing the said process, or the
agent or attorney of the plaintifff in said case, is hereby author
ized to make publication of notice to the defendant in such
attachment in the manner now prescribed by law, which shall
have the same force and effect to compel the appearance of the
defendant in any such suit in attachment, as if such publication
of notice had been in conformity to an order of court as here
tofore required ; and upon satisfactory proof being made to the
court of the publication of said notice, the plaintifff may proceed
in said case as if the process had been served personally upon
the said defendant
tútfSESV.'" de- § 1910. When the defendant shall be notified, by publi
cation as aforesaid, and shall not appear and answer the' action,
judgment by default may be entered, which may be proceeded
on to final judgment as in ordinary actions, but such judgment
shall only bind the property attached, and shall be no evidence
C. L.Sept.
1868,22,cha]
of indebtedness against the defendant in any subsequent suit
5 12;
184
§1941. When property of the defendant found in his pos
Possession retained, session, or in the hands of any other person, shall be attached,
bow.
the defendant, or such other person, may retain possession
thereof, by giving bond and security to the satisfaction of the
officer executing the writ, to the officer or his successor in
double the value of the property attached, conditioned that the
same shall be forthcoming when and where the court shall
Id. ¡ 13.
direct, and shall abide the judgment of the court.
Hnlzmiui
vol. 2,Sheriff,
page 271,
N. M.
Wagner, etvs.al.,Martinez,
vs. Romero,
et bL,
vol.Rep.
2, page 26(1, W. C. Rep,
§ 1 042. The officer executing the writ of attachment shall
Return to include return, with the writ, all bonds taken by him in virtue thereof,
what.
a schedule of all property and effects attached, and the names
of all the garnishees, the times and places when and where
Id. Í 14.
respectively summoned.
§ 1943. If the officer willfully fail to return a good and
sufficient
bond, in any case where bond is required by this law.
Officer
responsible,
when.
he shall be held and considered as security for the performance
of all acts, and the payment of all money to secure the per
Id. S 15.
formance of which snch bond ought to have been taken.
wled the rW
C.aSes wheu Property or effects shall be atmay' at the court to *hioh the ,rrit is K'
Defendant may an- turnabie nut , i •
an7 materia) f t nnswer> without oath, denying the tmtli oi
«ff ma v renlv V?D, 6d t,le "«i'lavit, to ^yhieh the plaiust the same tV "
°f the trnth of tIle affidavit shall be had
to Prove thn Tml aDdonsuoh tria] the plaintifff Ml beheld
Aflidavlt,
facts
of
to
be proven.
existence of the facts set forth in the affidavit, as

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[tit. xxxiii, ch. ra

942—§ 1945 I
-c^m^Tm the ground
He; sip" a,iMi. for
tor ]lim
mm the
tne
fendant, the
,,

of the attachment, and if the issue shall be found
cause
shall piWDOU,
proceed, but
cause sunn
, if, it be found or tneaecause. shall be
t_ dismissed
j:
.hu
at the i-natsof
costs of the
theDlaiMüt
plaintifff.

§ 1 945. The plaintifff may exhibit in the cause, written
Allegations and in allegations and interrogatories at the return terra of the writ,
terrogatories.
and not afterwards, touching the' property, effects and credits
attached in the hands of any garnishee. The garnishee shall
exhibit arid, file his answer thereto, on oath, during such term,
Garnishee, answer unless the court for good cause shown shall order otherwise.
nf.
In default of such answer, or of a sufficient answer, the plain
Judgment by de tiff may take judgment by default against him, or the court
fault.
may, upon motion, compel him to answer by attachment of his
~Id. ¡ it:
V■
body.
§ 1 946. Such judgment by default may be proceeded on
Judgment
fault,
procedure.by de to final judgment in like manner as in cases of the defendant
in actions upon contracts, but no final judgment shall be ren
dered against the garnishee until there shall be final judgment
Id. S 18against the defendant.
, § 1 947. The plaintifff may deny the answer of the gar
Denial by plaintifff. nishee in whole or in part, and the issue shall be tried as
ordinary issues between plaintifffs. If on such trial the proper
ty or effects of the defendant be found in the hands of the
•garnishee, the value thereof shall be assessed and judgment
shall be rendered for the proper amount' of money. If the
answer of the garnishee be not excepted to or denied at the
same term at which it is filed, it shall be taken to be true and
Id. ! 19.
sufficient.
§ 1 948. If by the answer not excepted to nor denied, it
shall
appear that the garnishee is possessed of property or
Judgment
a
g
n
i
n
s
t
garnishee, when.
effects, of the defendant, or is indebted to the defendant the
value of the property or effects, or of the debt, being ascer
Id. { '20.
tained, judgment may be rendered against the garnishee.
i' .-m CftS6S
■•.■„,., °f contro,rer8y hetween the
he pi
plaint
nd gániishee1"
or recover
Costs, how adjudged. and
c°stsgarnishee,
as in ort the parties may be adjudged
< . to
< .. pay
wor
rdinary cases between plaintifff and defendant.
Id. f 21.
debtor by attachmett1
there
WÍ8hÍn«
to sueexceeds
h" ' the sum of one
hundred
dnii thfffT*
or 8nm
claimed
Attachment,
probate
clerk, may issue writs. ^strict court i^"7 d° S° ^ fir8t m™8 *ith the eleA o{ tt'
the clerk n t
°mmty in which the debtor )ives' or before
is brourr],/
£,Hte conrl of tJ]e county in which the suit
before the el i *
* Rnd bond> as now squired to be done
clerk before I
lilstrict court, which shall authorize the
Wits of aft l
8Wd affidavit »n'l '>ond shall be filed to issue
which att»!íü
fDt' the snme as clerks of the district cwt.
•went, together with the affidavit and bond, when

PROCEDURE CIVII,.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. TO.

944—§ 1951]
issued by clerks of the probate court, shall be by them made
returnable to the next term of the district court for the proper
county, and shall be by them returned to said district conrt on
C. I,. 1865, chap. :ll
5 23; Feb. 6, 1856.
or before the first day of said term.
Wagner, et al., vs. Somera, Sheriff, et «1., vol. 2, page 269, W. C. Rep.
§ 1951. The form of said affidavit shall be as follows, toAffidavit, form of.
wit:
Territory
County ofof New Mexico, |^ ssThis day personally appeared
before me the undersigned, clerk of the (district court or pro
bate court, as the case may be,) A. B. (or C. D., agent for A
B, as the case may be,) and, being duly sworn, savs that E.
F. js justly indebted to the said A. B. in the sum of
dol
lars, after allowing all just off-sets, and that the said E. F. is
(setting forth one of the causes of attachments.)
A. B
or C. D., agent for A. B
to and
dayJ of —,
A. Sworn
D.
. subscribed before me this
Id. 5 25.
Clerk
Returnable, when.

§ 1 952. The form of said bond shall be as follows, to-wfc
Know all men by these presents, That we (A B., prin
cipal, or C. D., agent for A. B., principal, as the case may be.)
and N. N. and M. M. his securities, are held and firmly bound
unto the Territory of New Mexico, in the sum of
hi
lars, for the payment of which, well and truly to be made, we
bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators, firmly
by these presents, sealed with our seals and dated this dayThe
of condition
A. D.of the . above obligation is such thai whereas
the above named A. B. has this day sued out an attachment
before J. J., clerk of the I district court or probate court, «*
the case may be,) against E. F., for the sum of
dollars.
returnable to the next
term of the district court for the
Now, ofif the said. A. B. shall prosecute his said action without
county
delay, and with effect, and refund all sums of money that ms;
be adjudged to be refunded to the defendant, and pay all dam
ages that may accrue to any defendant or garnishee by reason
of said attachment, or any process of judgment thereon- then
this obligation to be null and void, otherwise to remain in fu
force and effect.
Id. $ 20.

A. N
B
N.
M. M

p'
L s^L s,;

946—§ 1953]

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[tit. XXXIII, CH. TO.

tyf"o'Srtb'mn?rohear § 1053. In all suits in the district courts by attachments
testimony.
wheu the property attached shaU bg of fl perighabie Eature
and hable to be lost or diminished in value before the final ad
judication of the case, and the defendant shall not give bond
to retain the possession of the same, the plaintifff or defendant
may make out a petition in writing setting forth the kind, na
ture, and condition of the property, and present said petition
to the judge of the district in vacation; and if he shall find
it sufficient in form and conditions, he may hear the testimony
of witnesses as to the property, and if he shall believe that the
interests of both plaintifff and. defendant will be promoted by
~enrmiCc5¡¿rsr ™?e sale of tne property, may order such sale to be made, and
r¡ reb. 2, 1869. Tr. direct the manner thereof.
luoní order" § 1954. In such case the judge may appoint some one to
make such sale, and require such bond and security to be
ed; conditions.
given for the faithful performance of the same and the ac
counting for the proceeds and paying the same over, as the
Id. } 28.
nature of the case may demand.
§ 1 955. The judge may, if he shall find the safety of the
Receiver, judge may property or the security of the proceeds shall require it, ap
appoint.
point a special receiver to take possession of the same, after
Id. } 29.
giving such bond and security as the judge shall approve.
§ 1 95(5. All such proceeds of sale of property shall be deProceeds,
direct
disposalcourt
of. to livered to such person as the judge or court shall determine
entitled to the same upon the final disposition of the suit
§ 1957. The judge or court may allow to the receiver, or
Compensation to re person making said sale, a reasonable compensation for his
ceiver.
services, and the necessary costs for keeping and preserving
Id. S 31
the
property.
' any civil
•■—'' —i*
which in»j
may
hJLoft
. ^^""er in
suit nendinsr.
pending, or wlncn
ant )
u brongK when the summons against the defend
attorn 8
^turned "executed," the plaintifff, his agent, or
wifl, ti ,™a7 at ™y tinie before judgment file an affidavit
witii the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending, ad
TW^S-tSiS^r nS *j
security as in cases of original attachments;
; "f thereUpon the clerk must issue an attachment, returnable
as in other cases of original attachments.
Un l ^ü¡?' 1,1 n11 cases wllen attachments are sued out ancilProcedure
°"Sllml suit, the suit must thereafter proceed in all
litry
suits. in nncll- res t
specie as if it had been commenced originally by attachment,
~i7i7Ta¡T
"
in v !
1,1 n11 cases hereafter commenced by attachment.
m,tP " i ., trnth of the affidavit for attachment, or of any
isa.Z it aJ1fgatlon therein contained shall be denied, and the
fen 1 if,
"led sha11- uPou the tiüú be found for the deiut, the attachment shall be dismissed, and all po^}348—§1961 J

PBOCEDUItE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. TIL

D¿í.1M.'p-l7>,ai n^ lts' effects- nnd credits held or affected thereby, or thereunder shall be released and discharged from the operation
thereof; but such dismissal of the attachment shall not abate
We suit, but the same shall proceed as in ordinary cases.
rab?ecTtoStach£em! § 1961. When the process of attachment shall issue against
a party, who shall have or own any interest or amount of shares
in any company doing business in, or corporation incorpórate!
under the laws of this Territory, or any foreign corporation
__o-~— * doing business in this Territory, the same may be attached in
«E*—**-" the Allowing manner: The officer in whose hands the attachinent is placed shall endorse an entry thereon of his levy, on
the corporate shares or interest of the defendant, and "shall
forthwith serve a copy of the attachment so endorsed upon the
president of the company or corporation at the office of the
company, or by leaving the same at the usual and most noto
rious place of doing business of such company or corporation
in this Territory, which entry and service shall amount to and
Service; effect of. be considered a seizure 'of said corporate interest or shares, to
Feb'. iT' chop- ! I; nf' 111tents and purposes, and under an execution issued on such
attachment, may be sold as in other cases of ordinary execution.
whe£.°'leíer" void§ 1 962. Any transfer by the defendant of the stock or in
terest so attached after the levy of such attachment shall be
void, and when an execution is issued the said stock or interest
., „
?hn11 be S°M by the sheriff or his deputy, according to the Mg^howtobe^e. jstmg provisions of law in this Territory in regard to the sale
m. 5 aof personal property under attachment. '
ro?Sr!antl,ori* § 1963. Certificates of purchase shall be granted by the
officer selling, which, on presentation to the proper officer of
the company or corporation, shall authorize a transfer of the
stock to the purchaser and it shall be his duty to make such
transfer on the proper books of the corporation or company, if
________ necessary; and afford the purchaser such evidence of title to
s 3*he stock purchased as is usual and necessary with other stock

Procedures f
cidle».
0'end__________
l. isa», cb.ip. a,»;
,sroha9Ammonal .ecuritf

holders.
tachment, the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdic
tion and to have control of all subsequent proceedings in re atÍ<>n thereto; and if after the issuing of the order, the de
fendant being a person, should die, or a corporation, nnd »
charter should expire by limitation, forfeiture or otherwise, the
proceedings shall be carried on, but in all such cases other than
1
<W«.H»T.t. was a foreign corporation, his legal rep
where the defendant was a foreign c°TPora"u '
resentatives shall be made parties to the actl0D .
« 1 965. The defendant may at any time e
£r¡u].
after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move, tne
^ „1(,
ditional security on the part of the P1"".4*" „WutiffS lo
tion the court is satisfied that the surety m the p

950—§ 1966 J
I¿i8Vh*t"3' !2; ^klI,S llas removed from this Territory, or is not sufficient for
tne amount thereof, it may vacate the order of attachment and
direct restitution of any property taken under it, unless in a
reasonable time to be fixed by court, sufficient security is given
by the plaintifff.
3 6
§
1966.
Any
creditor
whose
demand
amounts
to
fifty dol
Capias, when.
lars or more may sue out a writ of capias in the district court
by tiling an affidavit stating that the defendant is justly in
debted to him after allowing all off-sets, in a sum specified in
the affidavit, and on what account; that the affiant has reason
to believe and does believe, that the defendant is about to abscond from the Territory, so as to endanger the collection of
C. L. 1865, chap. 2), Ins debt, and by also filing a bond as is required in attachments.
S 6; Jan. 12, 1862.
*? 1 96 7. Creditors whose demands amount to less than fifty
Capias, by justices, dollars
may sue their debtors before justices of the peace, by
when.
wits of capias, subject to the same rules as are prescribed in
Ici. ! 6.
the preceding section concerning such writs.
§ 1 968. A writ of capias shall be served by taking the
Capias, service of. body of the defendant and retaining the same in custody until
discharged by due course of law, but the defendant shall be
Discharge, when. discharged at any time by giving bond and security to the
sheriff or constable that he will render himself in custody to
"" li.i'l.
abide the judgment, order or decree of the court.
§ 1 969. The defendant may, at the return term of the writ,
Denial allowed, how. deny the truth of the affidavit by answer without oath, and the
same proceeding shall be had thereon as in case of attachments.
_Id. j~S.
§ 1970. If the petition and writ shall be served ten dap
Trial, when.
before the first day of the next term of said court, the defend
ant shall, on or before the second day of said term, file h'g
legal exceptions to said petition, if any he have, which excep
„, filing tions shall be determined by the judge in a summary_manner.
and, ... determination.
Id. i 9.
§ 1971. If the. exceptions be overruled, the defendant
Answer to he filed, shall forthwith file his answer under oath, fully admitting or
when.
denying or confessing or avoiding every material part of said
Id. f 10.
§ 1972. If no such exceptions be filed, the defendant shall
Answer, when
exceptions.
file such answer on or before the second day of said term.
Id. { 11.
§ 1 9 7 3. All subsequent pleadings shall be filed under oath,
Headings, subse
quent
and
in such time as the court shall prescribe.
Id. ! 12.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. Till.

952—§ 1974]
CHAPTER VIII.

Cross replevins
lawful ..
Action,
maynot
bring
Againstwho
corporations
Affidavit, required
Bond, conditions of..
Service
I'leaof
defendant..........
Judgment,
effect of..

."'
Value
plaintifff' when
Injury,collectable
action for from
on bond

REPLEVIN.
! Bond. defendant may bring action on
1181
"""IS:
8«™»19'5 1 sheriff responsible, wlien
N0
'"J8 pr°b it« clerks may issue writs
m
1{n~' Affidavit and bond to be filed; form
MM
3978 Writs to issue, when
1WS
1979
Writs
of,
filing
and
docketing
1980 Beploviaed property, return of, when; bond, con- 1»
í£¡ ¡' Snenfi.
di,ionBresponsibility
°'
1HS8
■ of; additional bond, whea «
1»!

REPLEVIN.
B.M 9 ' *• Any person having a right to the immediate posAction, who may fullI ? f°- "y g°°ds 0r chiittels, wrongfully taken or wronguy detained, may bring an action of replevin for the recover/
tZ&fStr*--- *uereot. and for damages sustained by reason of the unjust
C. L. 1865, chap. 36,
caption or detention thereof
«oren is. Brown, vol. 2. page 11, N. hi. Rep
i,„8 i i0, JNo cross replevin, or replevin for prorierij in the
'■ohands of an officer shall be brought.
corporations.
3 J < b. Hurts of replevin may be commenced and earned
Replevin,
agains
t
£ co.ncluflon
¿Í a against any incorporated company in this Ter-,
■resanar
ritory m all cases that may be begun and carried against an/
Feb. 8. Tr.

ordinary
defendants.
§ 1977.
Before the writ of replevin be issued, the plaintifff
or some creditable person in his stead, shall file in the office of
me clerk of the district court an affidavit alleging that the
plaintifff is lawfully entitled to the possession of the properrr
mentioned in the declaration, that the same was wrongMj
iZtA?1"'-*- tak.e"' f wrongfully detained by the defendant, and that the
Affidavit required.

right of action accrued within one year.
. «>n itions of. £ ***J8. The plaintifff, or some responsible person shift
oetore
enter into bond with sufficient
Bond conditions
S the execution of the writ, &
securities, to the officer to whom the writ is directed, in double
tne value of the property, conditioned for the prosecution of
Ta-n——SU! With effect' and without delay make return of the
property if a return is adjudged, keep harmless the officer and
serwee.

^ \9 7C0StS
!M!CrU6be executed by delivering the goods
»vf
9' ***
.The ^
writ sha11
chattels in the declaration mentioned, to the plaintifff, and
oy summoning the defendant to appear on the return of the
wit, to answer the action of the plaintifff.

PROCEDURE CIVIL*
Pk« of rferena.»,.
¡WSJ^W^
1
Judgment, effect of.

Id. ! 7.
Value,
collectable
from
plaintifff,
when.
Id. § 8.
^niurj.aeuouforon
"id. {9.§ 1 980. The defendant may plead that he is not guilty of
the premises charged against him, and this plea will put in
issue, not only the rightful ownership of the property mentioned
declaration, but also the wrongful taking and detention
thereof.
§ 1981. In case the plaintifff fails to prosecute his suit
with effect, and without delay, judgment shall be given for the
defendant and shall be entered against the plaintifff and his se
curities for the value of the property taken, and double dama
ges for the use of the same from the time of delivery, and it
shall be in the option of the defendant to take back such prop
erty or the assessed value thereof.
§ 1982. If such property be not returned and accepted
within thirty days after the judgment, the sheriff shall collect
the assessed value thereof from the plaintifff and his securities,
as on other executions,
£ 1 983. Any officer damnified by the execution of a writ
°* replevin, may maintain an action therefore on the bond bj

him taken.
a^oA«,iS5i<!*'" § 1 984. The defendant 'may, for any violation of the bond,
id. ¡ lo.
bring an action thereon in the name of the officer for his use.
^Sheriff response,
1 u§ , 90,5
sheriff for ^.j.^ fa ^ ^ or ^ ^
insufficient bond from the plaintifff, shall be responsible on his
official bond for all damages sustained thereby, recoverable bj
action of debt in the name of the party injured.
Archibeque vs. Miera, vol. 1, page«9, S. M. Rep.
£££ § 1986. The clerks of the various probate courts in this
Territory are hereby authorized to issue writs of replevin for
the
by any
recovery
person
of any
or persons,
goods orsubject
chattelstounlawfully
the same seized
rules or
andheld
re

s' J*«,rch«p.i6, ( ij sfcrictions as the clerks of the district courts in this Territory.
Jan. 29. 'Tr.
Holzman vs. Martinez, vol. 2. page 271, N. M. Rep.
§ 1987. Any person desiring to bring an action of replevin
-1 of „„„
before the clerk of the probate court
any m„rfv
county in
1 u this Ter^
beAffidavit
filed. and bond to ritory, for the recovery of any goods or chattels iuw ; &
tained or taken from their possession by any person. r - ^
shall file in the office of the clerk of the probate co ^(
county in which the action of replevin is brougm,
and bond in the following form and tenor, to-witAFFIDAVIT IN REPLEVIN.
r'orniB.
Territory of New Mexico, ( Ag¿nvjt.
County of
• )
fasni
Before me the undersigned, clerk of the Proba^*¡*ioned, on
for the county of
, and Territory above menu

956—§ 1988 J

PROCEDUUE (JIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. VIII.

thisi the
day of
, A. D. 18—, personally ap
L. M6S,~cliap.
Jan.
29. Tr. 16, } 4"; A. tt. (here the name of the person applying for the writ), who
being duly sworn, declares and says, that he has the legal right
to the possession of (here the property to be replevied is de
scribed), that the said property is unlawfully withheld from
him (or was illegally seized, as the case may be) by C. D. (here
the name or names of the person or persons complained against),
and that the right of action originated within one year.
(Signed)
A. B
Complainant
Sworn to and subscribed before me this the
dav of
, A. D. 18—.
Clerk of the Probate Court
BOND IN REPLEVIN.
Know all men by these presents, that we. A. 'B., as principal.
and
¡ ns his sureties, are held and firmly bound
unto C. D. (here the name of the officer to whom the writ is di
rected), in the sum of
dollars, for the payment of which
sum well and truly we hold ourselves and our heirs, executors
and administrators firmly by these presents, signed with our
hands and seals, and dated this, the
day of
, A-'D.
18—. The condition of the above obligation is snch that
whereas the above mentioned A. B. has applied for a writ of re
plevin from the clerk of the probate court of the county of —•
which writ is directed to (here the name of the officer to whom
the writ is directed), returnable to the next term of the district
court to be begun and holden at the town of
, in and for
the county of
the (here the day on which the term of
the district court commences). Now if the said A. B. shall
prosecute his said action without delay and with effect, and
shall deliver the property replevied toC.'D. in the event of the
restitution being so adjudged by the said court, shall keep
harmless tho said (here the name of the officer), and shall pay
all the costs which may arise from the said replevin, then this
obligation shall be null and of no value, otherwise the same
shall remain in full
forcethe
and
effect. and his sureties sign.j,
[Here
principal
§ 1988. The clerks of the probate court shall, upon the
Writs to issue, when. filing in their offices of the affidavit and bond in conformity. «1»
the forms prescribed in the foregoing section, issue writs o
replevin applied for by the complainant directed to the snerm
of the county or his deputy, commanding him to replevy
Id. 1 8.
property described in the affidavit of the complainant,
§ 1 989. Hereafter in suits in replevin, when the writ shall
Replevin,
writs o be issued by a clerk of a probate court, it shall not be »*»
fihiiK
nud docketing.
sary or requisite for the defendant to file any protest; but

/
PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. IX.

958—§ 1990 ]
clerk issuing the writ shall forward all the papers filed with
L. 1880, chap. !>, Í 1 him in the cause to the clerk of the district court at the nest
Feb. 13.
regular term of the district court within or for the county, who
shall docket the cause, and thereupon said cause shall proceed
as if it had been commenced in said district court before the
clerk thereof.
§ 1 990. The defendant, either in person or by his agent
Replevied property or attorney, at any time within five days after the service of a
retorn oí, when.
writ of replevin on him, and the replevin of the property there
under, may require the return of the property replevied upon
Bond, condition, ot giving to the sheriff a bond with two or more sufficient sureties
in double the value of the property as sworn to in the affidavit
for replevin, conditioned for the delivery of the property to the
plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for payment to him
of such sum as may for any cause be recovered against the de
Id. Í 2.
fendant
in theThe
suit.sheriff shall judge of the sufficiency of the
•§ 1991.
Sheriff, respnnsibil sureties on the bond of the defendant, and shall return the same
ity of.
with the writ of replevin into the district court; and shall be
responsible on his official bond on returning any property
replevied ; but any party interested in the result of any such
cause may move the court on cause shown to require the de
fendant in such cases to give additional security, when that
Additional bond, taken by the sheriff shall be deemed insufficient, or to return
when.
the property to the sheriff to be delivered over to the plaintifff
if the plaintifff has given a good and sufficient replevin bond, as
Id. ( 3.
required by law.
Achibecme vs. Miera, vol. 1, page 419. N. M. Rep

CHAPTEB IX.
EXTRAORDINARY REMEDIES.
MANDAMUS.
gKSto*19»
Section. Writ peremptory if no answer
■ ' ¡ttT
Regulation ol
Pleadings as in civil action.
_
tf«
Writ may issue, when and for what
1998 Plaintiff may recover, what
Í»
Writ prohibited, when
]f¡^
Mcer
refusing
duty;
P«¿*.
^
^
W»
1965 Jurisdiction; procedure before W
Writ, alternative and peremptory
*»
LMO
Peremptory writ to issue first, when
199; DWrlctcourtopen'at'airtimee
Writ, endorsement of
Answer, how to be made . .
PROHIBITION.
■jili'
Procedure, when return is not adopté
Jurisdiction exclusive in nupreme court; writ,
Judgment, how rendered
command of
,
Prohibition absolute, when
Writ, service and return of
Party defendant, when
2008

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TU. XXXIII> 0IL

960—§ 1992 1

u""üflm'U8'

§ 1992.

MANDAMUS.
The writ üf mandamus is regulated as in this

"ETaei, chop, i, s 37; chapter prescribed.
wK'andfoi ,¿1"§ 1 993. It may be issued to any inferior tribunal, corpora
tion, board, or person^ to compel the performance of an net
which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an
office, trust and station ; but though it may require an inferior
-¡g-pgtribunal to exercise its judgment, or proceed to the discharge
of any of its functions, it cannot control judicial discretion.
Territory
Ortiz, vol-.
Arraijo vs.vs.Territory,
vol.1.1,page
page5.80,N.N.M.M.Hep.
Rep.
§ 1994. The writ shall not issue in any case where there
Writ prohlblte d, is a plain, speedy and adequate remedy in the ordinary course
when.
of law. It shall issue on the information of the party bene
Id. { a9.
interested.
peirmptory?*""""1 ficially
§ 1995.
The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The
Alternative, to state alternative writ shall
- j—i.
state
i„ concisely
—.f.™ trie
the act
factsand
showing
his omission
the obli-to
gation of the defendant to perform' the act, and In-,>,,,»«.• .
periorm it, and command him, that immediately after the receipt ol the writ, or at some other specified time, he do the act
requirecl to be performed, or show cause before the court, out
01 winch the writ issued, at a specified time and place, why
ne Has not done so; and that he then and there return the writ
witu nis certificate of having done as he is commanded. The
peremptory- writ shall be in a similar form, except that the words
Peremptory writ. requiring the defendant to show cause why he has not done a
Id. I 40.
commanded
bethe
omitted.
§ 1 996. shall
When
right to require the performance of the
act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be given
Peremptory
w
r
1
1
e first,when. ,Trl? «P?ÍUg i4' n Peremptory mandamus may be allowed
in tüeürst instance; in all other cases the alternative writ shall
Id. } 41.
oe Rnrst
issued.The court or judge, by an indorsement on the
^997.
-jsrfa.
Writ, endorsement wit, shall allow the same, designate the return day thereoi
of.
A„wer' >w '° be and§ dlrect
of service
made.
1 998. theOnmanner
the return
day of the alternative writ, or snch
Tarm
mrther day as the court allows, the party on whom the writ is
served may show cause by answer, made in the same manner as
an answer to a complaint in civil action.
Erant,
1, page 57».-isN. M.
Rep a peremptory mandamus
§|Branford
1999. vs. If
novol.answer
made
snail be allowed against the defendant: if an answer is made
containing new matter, the plaintifff mav, on the trial or other
tfSgmu .n,™ Proceedings, avail himself of any valid "objection to its suffi-iarnr
ciency, or may countervail it by evidence either in direct denial

noWrt
answer.

u

or by way of avoidance.

962—§ 2000J

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[tit. XXXIIt, CH. IX.

actioS'n,!1f' °" in clv"

§ 2000. No other pleading or written allegation is allowed
than the writ and answer. They shall be construed and amend
ed in the same manner as pleadings in a civil action, and the
TTissi, chap, i, r*Si issues thereby joined shall be tried and further proceedings
Ap™' L
had in the same manner as in a civil action.
(x>vlr111wh!1tm " * T*~ § 200.1. If judgment is given for the plaintifff, he shall re
cover the damages which he has sustained, together with costs
id. ¡ 46.
" and disbursements, and a peremptory mandamus shall he
awarded without delay.
§ 2002. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed to
a public officer, body or board, commanding the performance
of any public duty specially enjoined by law, if it appears to
the court that such officer or any member of such body or
board, without just excuse, refuses or neglects to perform the
duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine not exceeding
two hundred and fifty dollars upon every such officer or mem
ber of such body or board; such fine, when collected, shall be
paid into the territorial treasury, and the payment of such fine
is a bar to an action for any penalty incurred by such officer,
W.T"T "
or member of such body or board, by reason of his refusal or
neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.
a1^!°ü<"11 proc*- 8 2003. The district court has exclusive original jurisdicdure
before
supreme
° in
. all cases of„ mandamus, except where suchP writ., .is to
, r,De
amntion
directed to a district court or a judge thereof in his official ca
pacity, in which case the supreme court has exclusive original
jurisdiction, and in such case the supreme court or a judge
thereof shall first make a rule, returnable in term, that such dis
trict court or judge thereof, show cause before the court why a
peremptory writ of mandamus should not issue, and upon the
return day of such rule such district court or judge may show
cause against the rule by affidavit or record evidence, and upon
the hearing thereof the supreme court shall award a peremp
tory writ or dismiss the rule. In case of emergency, a judge
of the supreme court, at the time of making the rule to show
~IdTTSi—
cause, may also appoint a special term of the court for hearing
the motion, and at which the rule shall be made returnable.
^P"**1'
§ 2004. An appeal lies in the supreme court from the disjmr'péiJit)tu''""í

id- 1 *9.
trict court in mandamus as in civil actions.
«tunumUourt' ope" § 2005. For the purpose of hearing application for and
issuing writs of mandamus, the district courts shall be regarded
! so.
- as open at all times, wherever the judge of such court may w
within the Territory.
PROHIBITION.
isuedout of
jurudicuon «d«. § 2006. Writs of prohibition sh,al\°¿yubue0USaní^by
Bivein8upren>e court. ^ gupreme court) and shall be applied for upon

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CHAP. IX.

964—1 2007 J
motion to the court or a judge thereof in vacation, and if the
cause shown appears to the court or judge to be sufficient a
writ shall be thereupon issued, which shall command the court
Writ, command of. and party, or officer to whom it is directed, to desist and refrain
from any other proceedings in the action or matter specified
therein, until the next term of said supreme court, or the fur
ther order of the court thereon ; and to show cause at the next
term of said court, or some day to be named in the same term
at the option of the court, if issued in term time, why they
should not be absolutely restrained from any further proceedL. 1884,
Aprü
*■ chap. 1, ; 51; ings in such action or matter.
tam1V.8erv1oeiu"1I'e" § 2007. Such writ shall be served upon the court and
party or officer to whom it is directed, in the same manner as
a writ of mandamus, and a return shall be made thereto by such
Id. ! 52.
court or officer, which may be enforced by attachment
§ 2008. If the party to whom such writ is directed shajl,
Party defendant, by an instrument in writing, to be signed by him and annexed
when.
to such return, adopt the same return, and rely upon the mat
ters therein contained as sufficient cause why such court should
not be restrained, as mentioned in said writ, such party shall
thenceforth be deemed the defendant in such proceeding, and
the person prosecuting such writ, may take issue or demur to
Id. ( 53.
the matters so relied upon by such defendant.
h.raTs'ío'.doSSi.'*"
§ 200)). If the party to whom such writ is directed, shall
not adopt such return, the party prosecuting such writ, shall
bring on the argument of such return, as upon a rule to show
cause ; and he may, by his own affidavit and other proofs con
Id. S 54.
trovert the matter set forth in such return.
§ 2010. The court, after hearing the proofs and allega
Judgment, how to be tions of the parties, shall render judgment either that a pmrendered.
tions
of absolute
tlle partleS(
snau ii.the
^
hibition
restraining
¿1 said
:j court
„„„vt
and party,
nartv, or officer,
officer.
irom proceeding in such action or matter, do issue, or a writ of
consultation authorizing the court and party, or officer, to pro
ceed in the action or matter in question, and may make and
enforce such order in relation to costs and charges and the
Id. i 55.
amount thereof as may be deemed just.
, §2011. If the party to whom such first writ of prohibition
Prohibition a b a o- is directed adopts the return of the court thereto, and judgment
hite, when.
is rendered for the party prosecuting such writ, a prohibition
H j 56.
absolute shall be issued, but if judgment is given against such
party, a writ of consultation shall be issued as above provided.

I

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. X.

966—§ 2012]
CHAPTER X.
HABEAS CORPUS.
Section. I
ami
in other cases
2012 Procedure
2082
Writ, who may prosecute
Cnstody
pending
judgment
Writ, who may not prosecute; execution, term
2033
Notices
to
be
given
2013
for persons refused bail; proceedings not
defined
2014 Writ
3(U
Application, how and when made
subjectpattoinreview
2015 Return
Proof required
issue
or
new
matter
alleged
Petition, substance of
- 2016 Proceedings if party is sick; hearing may proceed
2017
Writ, form of
when; discharge granted, when
201H Obedience
3'.17
Writ sufficient, when
to writ, how enforced
2018 Arresta second
203*
Refusal
to
grant
writ;
penalty
time permissible, when
Return shall state, what
v.
20211 Transferor concealment;
2189
penalty
2021 Refusal of copy of order; forfeiture
204ÍI
Person to be produced; exception
it'll
2022 Writ returnable, when
Writ, disobedience of; penalty
202Ü Writ, service of when complete; bond required,
Attachment, coroner to execute, when
2024
Precept to Bheriff
conditions
202". Service,
3tf*
líeturn, proceedings on
how to be made
2044
Party discharged, when
Service
on
party
concealed
2i '27 Return, when to be made
2045
Party remanded, when
Prisoner by virtue of civil process discharged,
2028 Writ, court may issue in certain cases
when
•
3129 Fees of sheriffs
legality of judgment not to he inquired into
Person legally committed let to bailor remanded 2i«o
HABEAS CORPUS.
8 20 1 2. Every person imprisoned or otherwise restmned
Writ, who may pros- of liberty, excepUn the cashes in the «dk^mg-J-Ji ecnte.
fied. may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus. ««W^
n,T.; provisions of this chapter, to obtain relief from such impn
L. lH§i,
ment or restraint if it proves to be unlawful.
April
1. chap
„„.. \
fcl »■
VI Han
McDonald vs. Carlton, vol.r1 1,. PW^
Green vs. Ewell, vol. 1, page 186. N. M. R«P
>, - 0 1 3. The following persons are not entitled to prosecute
such writ. Persons committed or detained by virtue of the
Writ,
who
may
uol
prosecute.
final judgment, conviction, or decree of any competent tribunal,
or by virtue of an execution issued upon such judgment or de
cree; but no order of commitment for any alleged contempt, or
Ei«.,,ti„„ ,
uP°n proceedings as for contempt, to enforce the rights or
remedies of any party shall be deemed a judgment, conviction
■ ~*
section ; nor shall any ator decree within the meaning of this ^X^derbe
tachmentor other process issued upon any such order
Id. ft.
an execution within the meaning of this section.
nn<1Application,
when to he how
made.

8 -2014. Application for such writ ^J*¿j£¡¿¿
I to any judge of the supreme ^^^SS^;
tion
tbe-pwres-^j-fe^^ where ths f^^^lief it is in
signed and verified either by the party for whose re
^^
tended, or by some person in his behalf, « t°" ^ withul
supreme or district court, or to any judge tie
^ ^ n0
the district where the prisoner is detained o
^ wy
such officer within such district, or if he is absen ,

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. X.

968—§ 2015]
■LM»
Ap,:il '
Proot required.

Id. 5 *■
Petition, nubstiuice

cause is incapable of acting, or has refused to grant nub**
then to some officer having such authority residing in any otner
district.
§ 2015. Whenever application for any such writ is made
to any officer not residing within the district where the prisoner
is detained he shall require proof by the oath of the part)- ap
plying. or by other sufficient evidence, that there is no officer
in such district authorized to grant the writ; or, if there is one.
that he is absent or has refused to grant such writ; or, for some
cause, to be specially set forth, is incapable of acting, and if
such proof is not produced the application shall be denied.
§ 2016. The petition shall state in substance:
First—That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied
for is imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, the officer or per
son by whom he is so confined or restrained, and the place
where, naming both parties if their names are known, or de
scribing
them if they
not. is not committed or detained by
Second-—That
suchare
person
virtue of any process, judgment, decree, or execution, specified
in Third—The
section 2013. cause or pretense of such confinement or re
straint according to the knowledge or belief of the party veri

Id. i 5.
Writ, form ni.

id. 5 I!.

fying
the petition.
Fourth—If
the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any
warrant, or order, or process, a copy thereof shall be annexed,
or it shall be averred that by reason of such prisoner being re
moved or concealed before application, a demand of sucli copy
could not be made, or that such demand was made, and the
legal fees therefore tendered to the officer or person having such
prisoner in his custody, and that such copy was refused.
Fifth—If the imprisonment is alleged to be illegal, the peti
tion shall state in what the illegality consists.
§ 201 7. Every writ of habeas corpus issued under the pro
visions of this chapter shall be substantially in the following
form : "The Territory of New Mexico to the sheriffof, etc. or
to A. B. You are hereby commanded to have the body of C.
I>., by you imprisoned and detained, as it is said, together with
the time and cause of such imprisonment and detention, by
whatever name the said C. D. shall be called or charged, before
E. F., Judge of the District Court, as etc., (or immediately after
the receipt of this writ), to do and receive what shall then anil
there be considered concerning the said C. D.. and have yon
then and there this writ.
„
Witness,
etc.
§ 201 8. Such writ of habeas corpus shall not be disobeyed

Writ BDHclent
wheu.
forFirst—If
any defectthe
of person
form. having
It is sufficient,
the custody of the prisoner is

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. X.

970—§ 2019]
designated either by Lis name or office, if he has any, or by
L. Í«M, chap. 1. Í 7; his own name, or if both such names are unknown or uncer
April L
tain, he may be described by any assumed appellation, and any
one who.may be served with the writ shall be deemed to be the
person to whom it is directed, although it is directed to bim by
a wrong name or description, or to another person.
Second—If the person who is directed to be produced is
designated by name, or if his name is uncertain or unknown,
he may be described in any other way so as to designate the
person intended.
§2019. If any officer herein authorized to grant writs of
Htfusal Ui grant habeas corpus willfully refuses to grant such writ when legally
writ; penalty.
applied for, he shall forfeit for any such offense, to the party
Id. í 8.
aggrieved, one thousand dollars.
§ 2020. The person upon whom such writ is duly served
Keluni fliall *tate,
what.
shall state in his return plainly and unequivocally:
First—Whether he has or has not the party in bis custody,
or control, or under his restraint, and if he has not, whether he
has had the party in his custody, or under his control or re
straint, at any and what time prior or subsequent to the date
of Second—If
the writ. he has the party in his custody, or control, or
under his restraint, the authority and true cause of such im
prisonment or restraint, setting forth the same at large.
Third—If the party is detained by virtue of any writ, war
rant or other written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed
to the return, and the original shall be produced and exhibited
on the return of the writ to the officer before whom the same is
returnable.
Fourth—If the person upon whom such writ is served has
had the party in his control or custody, or under his restraint,
at any time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ, but has
transferred such custody or restraint to another, the return
shall state particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause,
and by what authority such transfer took place. The return
shall be signed by the person making the same, and except
where such person is a sworn public officer, and makes his re
Id. 5 9.
turn in his official capacity, it shall be verified by oath.
§ 202 1. The person or officer on whom the writ is served
shall bring the body of the person in his custody, according to
Person
tobe
pnv
duced; exeeptiou.
the command of such writ, except in the case of the sickness of
Id. 1 10.
such
person, If
as the
hereinafter
provided.
§ 2022.
person upon
whom such writ is duly served
refuses or neglects to obey the same, by producing the party
W
r
i
t,
disobedience
ut; penalty.
named in such writ, and making a full and explicit return to
every such writ within the time required by the provisions ol
this chapter, and no sufficient excuse is shown for such refusa

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

f TIT. XXXIII, CH. X.

972—§ 2023 J
APLriiT'cl,"p-1,1U; or neglect, the officer before whom such writ is returnable.
upon due proof of the sen-ice thereof, shall forthwith issue an
attachment against such person, directed to the sheriff of any
county in this Territory, and commanding him forthwith t'o
apprehend such person and to bring him immediately before
such officer, and on such person being so brought he shall be
committed to close custody in the jail of the county in which
such officer is, until he makes return to such writ and complies
with any order that may be made by such officer in relation to
the person for whose relief such writ was issued.
§ 2023. If a sheriff neglects to return such writ the at
Attachment, coroner tachment may be directed to any coroner or other person
to execute when.
designated therein, who shall have full power to execute the
same, and such sheriff' upon being brought up may be com
In. 5 12.
mitted to the jail of any county other than his own.
Precept to sheriff.
§ 2024. The officer by whom any such attachment is issued
may also at the saine time or afterward issue a precept to the
sheriff, or other person to whom such attachment was directed,
commanding him to bring forthwith before such officers the
party for whose benefit such writ was allowed, who shall thereafter remain in the custody of such sheriff' or person until he
is discharged, bailed or remanded, as such officer directs.
^Return, proceedings
' id. { H.

& 2025. The officer before whom such party is brought on
such writ shall immediately after the return thereof, proceed
to examine into the facts contained in such return, and into
1 *ne cause of the confinement, or restraint of such party.
whether the same was before commitment for any criminal

edTwSn0bed'*ch"g'

charge or not.
§ 2026. If no legal cause is shown for such imprisonment
or restraint, or for the continuation thereof, such officer shall
discharge such party from the custody or restraint under which

Id. i 16.
he §is2027.
held.

The officer shall forthwith remand such part), if
Party to be remand it appears that he is detained in custody, either,
ed, when.
Firsi—Ely virtue of process issued by any court or judge of
the United States in a case where such court or judge has ex
clusive
jurisdiction
; or,of the final judgment or decree of any
Second—By
virtue
competent court, or of any execution issued upon such judg
' Third—For
ment
or decree;any
or, contempt, specially and plainly charged in
the commitment by some court, officer or body having author
ityFourth—That
to commit for the
the time
contempt
so which
charged;
during
suchand,
party may be le
Id. i 16.
gally detained has not expired.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

I TIT. XXXIII, CH. X.

974—§ 202S ]
§ 2021Í. If it appears on the return that the prisoner is in
Prisoner
by virtue
custody by virtue of civil process of any court legally constitu
of
civil
process
to
be
discharged, when.
ted, or issued by an officer in the course of judicial proceedings
before him, authorized by law, such prisoner can only be dis
charged in one of the following cases:
First—When the jurisdiction of such court or ofticer lias
been exceeded either as to matter, place, sum or person.
Second—Where, though the original imprisonment was law
ful, yet by some act, omission or event which has taken place
afterward, the party is entitled to be discharged;
Third—Where the process is defective in some matter of
substance required by law rendering such process void;
Fourth—Where the process, though in proper form, lias
been issued in a case not allowed by law;
Fifth —Where the person having the custody of the prisoner
under such process is not the person empowered by law to de
tainSixth—Where
him ; or,
**
the process is not authorized
by any judg
ment, order or decree of any court, nor by any provision of law.
L. l»%chnp.~lt i 1";
April 1.
to bSdi£ § 2029. But no officer on the return of any habeas corpus
Legiility of j ■ ■ ~
^ _ . ■ _ ■ ■ inTn
- ■ • the legality or justice of any judgment, deShL.'" "° m" can. inonira
inquire into the
legality or justice
- cree or execution specified in the section ¿Vló.
Id. ¡ 18.
^, 2030- If it appears that the party has been legally com
Personto legally
for any criminal offense, or if he appears, by the testi
mitted,
be let tocom
t>all mitted
mony offered with the return upon the hearing thereof, to be
or remiinded.
guilty of such an offense, although the commitment is irregu
lar, the officer before whom such party is brought shall proid; ( i9.
- ceed to let such party to bail, if the case be bailable, and good
bail is offered, or, if not, shall forthwith remand such party.
§2081. In other cases the party shall be placed in custody
Procedure
id. far-iu other- ?' tne person legally entitled thereto, or if no one is so enti
tled, he shall be discharged.
?, ->(!'!•)
-"'>¿- r.
Until
upon the action, the
Custody pending ncer
,•, judgment
. , partyisisgiven
, of-,
betore whom
such
brought may eitber commit
iKlgmeut.
such party to the custody of the sheriff of the county in which
such officer is, or place him in such care or under such custody
Id. 5 21.
as his age and other circumstances require.
Noticesto be given.
fc8 •>(!•(■!
• • i cases, notice of the time and, place
, ati
-"•>•»■ TIn criminal
which the writ is made returnable shall be given to the di^trkt
or county attorney, if he is within the county; in other cases
notice shall be given to any person interested in contínolike notice shall be given to any "person *~ Peking. Uie
sit of
the aid
ing the custody or restraint of the party seeiung
Id. ! 22.
said writ.

976—§ 2034]
§ 2034. Persons to whom bail has been denied, or who
are con^nec^ f°r fa-ilure to give bail, may have the benefit of a
writ of habeas corpus for the purpose of being admitted to bail
or having the bail reduced, but no court or judge shall upon
habeas corpus review the proceedings or action of a committing
,
r having
m
t
r t
o for the purposes nienmagistrate
jurisdiction,
except
ApLrtu!4'ch"p-,,52S; tioned in this section.
§ 2035. The party brought before any such officer on the
Return
put in return of any writ of habeas corpus, may deny any of the ma
issue,
or tonewbe matter
alleged.
terial facts set forth in the return, or allege any fact to show
either that his imprisonment or detention is unlawful, or that
he is entitled to his discharge, which allegations or denials
shall be on oath ; and thereupon such officer sliall proceed in a
summary way to hear such allegations and proofs as are legally
produced in support of such imprisonment or detention, or
against the same, and to dispose of such party as justice re
Id. i U.
quires.
§ 2036. Whenever from the sickness or infirmity of the
Proceedings if party person directed to be produced by any writ of habeas corpus,
in sick.
such person cannot, without danger, be brought before the of
ficer, before whom the suit is made returnable, the party M
whose custody he is may state the fact in his return to the
writ, verifying the same by his oath; and if such officer is sat
isfied of the truth of such allegation and the return is other
wise sufficient, he shall proceed to decide upon such return
Hearing may pro- and to dispose of the matter; and if it appears that the person
(redd, when.
detained is illegally imprisoned, confined or restrained of
liberty, the officer shall order those having such person in wen
custody to discharge him forthwith ; and if it appears that sue ^
Disc barge
is legally detained, imprisoned and confined, and is n
granted,
when. to b« person
entitled to be bailed, such officer shall dismiss the proceedings.
Id. } 25.
§ 2037. Obedience to any order for the discharge of any
Obedience
to
writ,
prisoner
granted pursuant to the provisions of this cliaP. '
how enforced.
may be enforced by the officer issuing such writ or gnurtwg
such order, by attachment, in the same manner as herein p
vided for a neglect to make a. return to a writ of habeas c°rP'^
and the person guilty of such disobedience shall forfeit to
party aggrieved one "thousand dollars in addition to an) P8
Id. j -X.
cial damages such party may have sustained.

Writ 2Coi- persons
re
t*f
hired bail.
/¡■MxA-cJ^v *'
Proceedingsnotimbject to review.

Arrest second
permissible,
when.time

§ 2038.

No person who has been discharged upon^
emitted

PBOCEDUEÉ CIVIL.

["TIT. XXXlH, OB. t

978—§ 2039J
aW*w,m *"; lle is HSahl arrested on sufficient proof and committed by legal
process.
§ 2039. If any one who has in his custody or under his
control a person entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, whether a
writ has been issued or not, transfers such prisoner to the
custody or places him under the power or control of another
person, or conceals him, or changes the place of his confinement,
with intent to elude the service of such writ, or to avoid the effect
thereof, the person so offending shall forfeit to the party agf as.
grieved thereby the sum of four hundred dollars to be re
covered in a civil action,
order; forwtníe!' "§ 2040. Any officer or other person refusing to deliver a
copy of any order, warrant, process, or other authority by which
.
.
lle detains any person, to any one who demands such copy and
IS j as.
- tenders the fees thereof, shall forfeit two hundred dollars to

rJurve^^

the person so detained,
when. ' ' relurn*ble§ 2041. Every writ of habeas corpus may be made return"TdTTaS
al,le at a day certain, or forthwith, as the case may require, and
shall be under the seal of the court
§ 2042. It can only be served by an elector of this Terricompiete.
se
rve; service, when toryi and the service thereof shall not be deemed complete
unless the party serving the same tenders to the person in
whose custody the prisoner is, if such person is a sheriff, coro
ner, constable or marshal, the fees allowed by law for bringing
»henr¿míi'i™ír,>"' nP 9Uch prisoner. The officer granting the writ may, in his
discretion, require a bond in a penalty not exceeding one
thousand dollars, with sufficient sureties, conditioned that the
obligators will pay all costs and expenses of the proceeding,
and the reasonable charges of restoring the prisoner to the
person from whose custody he was taken, if he is remanded.
§ si.
Such bond shall run to the" sheriff of the county and be filed in
the office of the clerk of the court from which the writ issues.
JJgvioo, how l0 be § 2043. Every writ of habeas corpus issued pursuant to
this chapter may be served by delivering the same to the per
son to whom it is directed. If he cannot be found, it may he
.
served by being left at the jail or other place in which the
~~urm.
- prisoner is confined, with any under officer or other person of
proper age having charge for the time of such prisoner.
»o5££to*e on |,nrtJ§ 2044. If the person on whom the writ ought to be served
conceals himself, or refuses admittance to the party attempting
to serve the same, it may be served by affixing the same n
w, s as.
some conspicuous place on the outside either of his dwelling
house or of the place where the party is confined.
J^tan,, -her, to be § 2045. If the writ is returnable at a certain day, such return shall be made, and such prisoner produced at the tune
and place specified therein ; if he is returnable forthwith, and

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. XI.

(180—§ 2046 J
l. 1884, chap. i. } ¡H; the place is within twenty miles of the place of service, such
return shall be made and such prisoner produced within twentyfour hours, and the like time shall be allowed for every addi
tional twenty miles.
§ 2046. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be con
Writ,
court
may
la
me In certain cases. strued to restrain the power of any court to issue a writ of
habeas corpus when necessary to bring before them any
prisoner for trial, in any criminal case lawfully pending in the
same court, or to bring any prisoner to be examined as a wit
ness in any action or proceeding, civiUor criminal, pending in
such court, when they think the personal attendance and ex
Id { 36.
amination of the witness necessary for the attainment of justice.
§ 2047. The sheriff or person who shall be required to
Fees of sheriffs
bring up a person on habeas corpus, if the person be held by
virtue of any legal process directed to such person as an officer,
shall be entitled to the same fees and allowances as are allowed
Id. { 36.
to sheriffs for removing prisoners in other cases.

CHAPTER XI.

Continuances, bow to bo granted
Continuance, motions to be founded on affidavit;
affidavit, statements of
Continúanoe not to be granted, when
Continuance, motion to be made, when
Continuance, amendment to application
Trials, order of; rules of argument
Instructions to jury shall be in writing unless
waived
Instructions, limitations of
Instructions, form of
Instructions, given or refused
Instructions, filing of; exceptions
Charge to jury, how to be given
Jury trial waived, when

ail'J
■J 60
2u.il
a a¿
2053
2054
3kVj
3»)
JW
2058
ad'J
3HI

Sectios
Judgment by default; computation: da mages,
how assessed
Default may be set aside, when
^
Jury
take, aswhat
Trial,may
in order
docketed
-• ^
Time, court may limit, when
aM
Argument,
court
may
limit
Exceptions to be taken and filed, when
Arbitrators, appointment of; umpire may be
selected
«■
Arbitrators, oath of; how to be taken and filed.. **•
Agreement for arbitration, form of
Agreement, how to be executed
~¡
Questions may be submitted and settled
*'
Award, final

**

TRIALS.
§
2048.
A
continuance
shall not be granted fo any
toContinuances*,
be grauted. how growing out of the fault or negligence of the party ITlying
^
therefore; but, subject to this rule, it may be allowet
^
cause which satisfies the court that substantial
L. 1880,
Feb.
12. chap. 6, S 15; thereby be more nearly obtained.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XI,

982—§ 2049 J
§ 2049. Motions for continuance on account of the ab
Continuance,
tions
to be foundedmoon sence of evidence must be founded on the affidavit of the part)*,
affidavit.
his agent or attorney, and must state:
First—The name and residence of such witness, or if that
Affidavit, statements be not known, a sufficient reason why not known; and, also, in
either case, facts showing reasonable grounds of belief that his
attendance or testimony will be procured at the next term.
Second—Efforts, constituting due diligence, which have been
used to obtain such witness or his testimony.
Third—What particular facts, as distinguished from legal
conclusions, the affiant believes the witness will prove, and that
the affiant believes them to be true, and that he knows of no
L. 1HH), chap, 13, $ 1G other witness by whom such facts can be fully proved.
Feb. 12.
Tilomas va. McCormick, vol. 1, un 3fiy, N . M. Rep.
Dpld v». Dold,
vol.
page *„..
'197, N. M. Kep.
voi. i,1,vol.
imK„
<A«¿oía
nido v».ixua,
Beckwith,
1, page 182, N .
*5 2050. If the application for continuance is insufficient it
Continuance not to shall be overruled ; if held sufficient the cause shall be con
be granted, when.
tinued, unless the opposite party will admit that the witness, if
present, would testify to the facts therein stated, in which event
the cause shall not be continued, but Jhe party may read as
evidence of such witness the facts held by the court to be pro
Id. i 17.
perly stated.
§ 2051. The motion for continuance must be filed on the
Continuance,
motion
second
day of the term, if it is then certain that it will have to
to be made, when.
be made before the trial, and as soon thereafter as it becomes
certain that it will so need to be made, and shall not be allowed
to be made when the cause is called for trial, except for cause
which could not, by reasonable diligence, have been before that
time discovered; and if made after the second day of the term,
the affidavit must state facts constituting an excuse for the de
lay in making it. If time is taken when the case is called to
make such motion, the motionshall be made and determined
as soon as the court opens after the next ordinary adjournment
Id. Í 1«.
hnt r£!i52' The nPI)li(!nti°n for continuance shall be ame-ided
' '
adve^r !Üept *° "ti1* a clericaI e™r> by permission. The
Continuance,
amend
ment t o appUcatlon. conrt iPíi }nmfly Stonce' or within such reasonable time as the
wherpf, .
°-V' filp Written objections to such motion, stating
tinlT
ImS that the same ^ insufficient. If the oonSf the tem
^ applyil^ therefore sha" ™
Id. 5 19.
% 20o-5. In trials by jury, when the jury has been sworn,
Trials, order of.
the court shall
proceed
order
the following
Hie party
on inawhom
rests theorder:
bm-den of proof may
First—The
party
on
whom
rests
the
^
'
Statement
a
n
il
evi
state his claim and the evidence by winch he ni-npcts
expects to sustain
dence of plalntlfT.
it, and shall then produce Ins evidence.
and the
Second-The other party may then state his deie
Defense
and
e
v
i
dencc.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

|TIT.

0H' 11

984—§ 2054]
evidence by which he expects to sustain it, and must then pro
duce his evidence.
JtvMeuoe on r-butThird—The parties will then be confined to rebutting evi
dence, unless the court, for good reason, in furtherance of jus
tice, permits them to offer evidence in their original case.
ooumei, order ot
Fourth—But one counsel on each side shall examine the
same witness and open interlocutory questions. The part)'
moving the court or objecting to testimony shall be heard first;
the respondent may then reply and the mover rejoin, confining
his remarks to the points first stated and a pertinent answer to
respondent's argument. Debate on the question shall then be
closed, unless the court request further argument
Argument, míe» ot.
Fifth—The parties may then either submit or argue the case
to the jury. In the argument the party having the burden of
the issue shall have the opening and closing, but shall disclose
in the opening all the points relied on in the cause, and if in
the close he should refer to any new material point or fact not
relied upon in the opening, the adverse party shall have the
right to reply thereto, which reply shall close the argument in
the case.
Sixth —If the party holding the affirmative waive the opening, he shall be limited in the close simply to a reply to his ad^uraso.ohw.í,}»; versnry's argument, otherwise the other party shall have the
concluding
argument.
Nont—Chapter
i, section 7, of the laws of 1882, makcB'the above applicable «s w'11
in criminal as in civil cases.
• fi J!
UPon t,le triaI of any case either civil or criminal
t
I*
%ainct
courfa held within and for the various counties
Instructions
to
jury
shall
be in writing unlefiH waived.
lbe ler«tory, all instructions to the jury asked bv either
party whether given or refused, shall be in writing, and all in
structions given by the court at the request of either party or
upon its own motion, shall be in writing; and it is hereby made
tue duty of the court in all cases, whether civil or criminal, to
instruct the jury as to the law of the case, and a failure or reiusai so to do shall be sufficient ground for a reversal of the
~L no», chap, ¿-n-- 3pd^mJen* by the supreme court upon appeal or writ of error:
Apr.,,.
■ • . Provided, however, that the parties to the suit or their attor
neys may waive upon the record the instructions in writing.

^Instructions;

§ 2U55. Before the argument is concluded either party
q qnirr
may
request instructions to the jury on points of law, winch
snail be given or refused by the court. All instructions asked
tne ehflrge of the court shall be in writing. The court

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XL
l. is*, chap. 6, ¡ 23; shall instruct the jury as to the law of the case, hut «hall not
comment upon the weight of the evidence.
Herrara
ve. ftChavea
al . , vol.vol.2,page86.
D.
& R. tí.
R. vb.etHarris,
1, page 826, W. C Rep.
§ 2050. If the court refuse a written instruction, as de
Instructions, form manded, but gives the same with a modification, which the
of.
court may do, such modification shall not be by interlineation
or erasure, but shall be well defined, and shall follow some
such characterizing words as "changed thus," which words
shall themselves indicate that the same was refused as de
Id. ! 24
manded.
2057. The court must read to the jury all the instruc
given
Instructions,
or refined.to be tious
. o-o ayu
-< iti i ,intends
'. • J- lietowuit
— — Jand1 must1 announce
. .ih.mlVi
give muov
and none others,
them as given, and shall announce as refused without reading
to the jury all those which are refused, and must write the
u.~i &.
■ words "given or refused," as the case may be, on the margiu of
each instruction.
ut!'«cepuo?,».,i''UB § 2058. If the giving or refusal be excepted to, the same
■
M
may be without any stated reason therefore, and all instructions
demanded must be filed, and shall become a part of the record.
,o™'K1,r,'to* § 2059. After argument the court may, also, of its own
motion, charge the jury. Such charge shall be in writing in
motion,
cnarge
me juij paragraphs,
consecutively
i. numbered
»™1v»b)
namffranhs. and no oral explanation
thereof shall be allowed; and the provisions of this section
Id. } 27.
shall also apply to the instructions asked by the parties.
Leitensdorfer, vb Webb, vol 1, page 31, N. M. Rep.
t «¿Ved, When.™ •
§ 2060. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties
Jury trial may be
¿í*^>^
o/. / y*7
to
a,n issue of suffBring
feet in the"following
cases:
trial'*™'default or by
failing to appear at the
Second—By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed
id. i :
with the clerk.
Zbm ve. Stover et al., vol. 2, page 28, N. M. Rep.
§ 2061. In case of default adjudged against a party for
J u dg
m e n t by de non-appearance or for failure to plead or amend his pleadings,
fault;
computation.
as required by law or the rules of the court, when the action is
for a money demand, and the amount of the proper judgment
is a mere matter of computation, the clerk shall ascertain the
amount. When long accounts are to be examined the court
may refer the matter. In other cases the court shall assess the
damages, unless a jury be demanded by the party not in de
Damages, bow to be fault. The proper amount having been ascertained by either
itsseesed.
of the above methods, judgment shall be rendered therefore.
~Id. I 30.
§ 2062. Default may be set aside on motion on such terms
as the court may deem just, among which must be that of pleM"
Default
may
be
sel
uíitle, when.
>ng lssuably and forthwith, but not unless an affidavit of merit*

988—§ 2063]

PROCEDURE civil.

[tit. xxxiii, CH. XI.

l. 1880, chap. «. §i; be filed, and a reasonable excuse shown for having made such
default, nor unless application be made therefore at the term in
which such default and judgment thereon was entered.
Metzgor vs. Waddell, vol. 1, page 400, N. M. Rep.
jury may take, what. § 2063. When the jury retires to consider its verdict it
shall be allowed to take the pleadings in the cause, the instrucia. }33.
tions of the court, and any instruments of writing admitted as
evidence except depositions.
a ^L.™ order " § 2064. In all cases in which an answer lias been filed, or
docketed.
m Owhich
.w_~ the sum is uncertain or unliquidated, or in
, wlucli, dam
,
ages are the object of the suit, the same shall stand for trial
c. l. 1866, chap. 27, in the order in which they are docketed: Provided, that all
i «o. July u,i85i.
8Uits shall be docketed as they are filed.
m'tTw'hen""' °""
§ 2065. The court may restrict the time of any attorney
limit,
when.
l.L. 18», chap. e, 5 ü; in nny argument to itself.
§ 2066. The courts of this Territory shall have power to
Feb.
Argument,
court limit the time of counsel in arguments to the jury to one honr
A r limit.
b—
may
each, but such time may be extended when, in the opinion of
L. 1H80, chap. 7, 5 l; the judge, it is necessary in furtherance of justice.
Feb. 13
rSection 20U7 substituted and omitted.j
ARBITRATIONS.
§ 206». All litigants in the Territory of New Mexico shall
Arbitration, right of. have by this act the right, whenever they shall so desire, to
terminate their suits, in whatever condition they may be. in
i^í'i^V'' ,any. court of this Territory, by means of arbitrators, in the fol
lowing
manner:
pointment of.
S ¿"o».
ü.ach party may appoint one person to serve on
Arbitrators, np- ins& part
9AAQin the
T? suit
i or difficulty,
¿
but such appointment shall be
made by means of an instrument in writing, mutually, which
shall express the persons selected; the cause submitted to their
arbitration ; the power given to them in regard to the manner,
place and timo at which they shall proceed in the business sub
mitted to them; the agreement to abide by their decision and
amicable settlement. Also, the parties may empower the arbi
Umpire may be ee- trators, in case it be necessary, to select an umpire, who shall
ected.
torm his opinion as shall appear to him most just and right
Id. t 2.
between
the arbitrators.
§ 2070.
The persons appointed as arbitrators, to decidp
and settle any matters submitted to them amicably and in good
Arbitrators, oath oí. taith, shall consider in the most serious manner the matter in
question ; but, before they shall act as Mch, they shall take an
oath, as well the arbitrators as the umpire, that neither for
hatred, enmity, affection, fear, gifts, promises, nor for any other
cause, will they fail to comply faithfully with their function
accordrng to the best of their'knowledge and abilities; which
oath shall be taken before some justice of the peace, judge of
Oath,
how
to
be
takeu and filed.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XI.

990—§ 2071 J
h. i»», chap, n, f probate or district judge, and the judge before whom it is taken
in.... lf>. 186(1. Tr. shall
t 1 1 file
i* i the
1 1 same.
3; c.Jan.
Agreement, (onn of. £ 207 1. The form of the instrument of writing which the
parties shall execute shall be as follows, to-wit:
"We, A. and B., having a suit pending in (here name the
court ), on a demand which the said A. commenced against B.,
( here state the cause of demand ' , taking into consideration the
doubtfulness of its termination, and that great costs may accrue,
with delays and vexations ; to avoid these, we have determined
to compromise, by these presents, our claims and demands in
('. and I)., whom we appoint as arbitrators and amicable adjust
ers, conferring upon them as full power and jurisdiction ns they
may require, within
, to examine into, determine and ad
just finally our said suit, in view of truth and good faith, taking
into consideration, not only the principal matter submitted, but
also all things incidental to the same, until the whole cause
shall be completely adjusted. And in case the said arbitrators,
or amicable auditors, shall not agree in their decision, that they
select an umpire, who shall vote in favor of the opinion that lie
may think most just and right for the said arbitrators, to which
decision or amicable settlement we obligate ourselves to abide,
and that for no reason whatever, although it might otherwise
be admissible, shall we ask for reduction, exception, or appeal,
nor make other claim for the whole or any part thereof; there
fore, by these presents we do now approve in all its parts, re
nouncing the aid of the laws: and we desire, and it is our will,
that"In
it be
executedwhereof
withoutwe
anyhave
delay.
testimony
hereunto set our hands and
seals, in the precinct of
, colmty of
, tins
Id. S i.
Agreement, how I
ecuted.

day§ of
. ofthe
thecontending
year
." shall have drawn op
2072. When
parties
a writing in the manner and form specified in the foregoing
section of this act, the same shall be signed before some com
petent magistrate, who shall sign as made and executed in Ins

Id. { 5.
§ 2073. Any question or difficulty that might result in a
presence.
m a y tie suit may be submitted for decision and amicable settlement, in
Question,
submitted.
the manner prescribed by this act, before an action shall o
Id. S 6.
§ 2074.
The arbitrators shall proceed, in the exercise -of,
brought
thereon.
the powers given to them in the submission of the causeth()
Hearing.
hearing and receiving the proofs and argumente of each o
parties, and render sentence as the majority of the arm a

Award Anal,

may
decide. The sentence or amicable award of the ^["t^
§ 2075.
upon the matter submitted to their inspection, shall be ca
into full and faithful execution ; and any court of thislieri
to which application shall be made for such execution.

I

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. XII.

992—§ 2076]
order the same to be satisfied, inasmuch as by the submissiou
«ttWrtfi1 3E by the parties litigants it has been so agreed upon.

CHAPTER XII.
EVIDENCE—GENERAL V KO VISIONS.
Sicnox
Section. Conviction of felony, proof how to be adduced. **
Interest not to exclude witness
2076
howandto map*
be regnlated.
. . . .evidence.
Evidence may be given, by whom
2Ü77 Impeachment,
Copies of record,
competent
Witnesses may be compelled to testify; husbands
how authenticated
•
;•
,JlS
and wives competent witnesses
2078 Copie» lrnve same force as origínale; proviso
^
Crimination of self not compellable
2079 Account books B8 evidence, when....
■■■ ^
Exception in certain cases
2080 Subpcenas, who may issue
■• ^
^
Testimony not compelled, when
2081 Bnbpcana, to contain what
Evidence not sufficient, when
2062 Capias, when
"«i Vñto M.a ^
Admission pro confesso; judgment may be ren
Interrogations^ be annexed; to" "."be ""
sworn
dered
2083 material; proviso
Cross-examination, how to be conducted
2084
Proof of statement, when
2085
DEPOSITIONS.
Package by mail, requirements.. f taken, when aiis
H»
Depositions lawful, when
Aged and infirm persons, testimony taKen.
^
How to be taken
Interrogatories,
new,
when
j»
if7
Testimony subject to objections ... . . . . • ■• ••
,nt
Notices
20ÍM Depositions may be taken beyond count) Umi» ^
Testimony, when
Interrogatories, filing of; service; cross interro
Depositions, how to be taken . . . . . . • • •_■ ■ —
aM
Testimony of non-residents, how to be taken.. ^
gatories
Commission, how to be taken
Refusal authorizes judgment or non-suit
^
Testimony, bow to be taken; signed, sealed and
21H1 Examination, by written interrogatories
returned
PERPETUATING TESTIMONY.
Interrogatories; cross-examinations
2131
Depositions to perpetuate testimony may be
to be signed
~J
taken, when
^111 Testimony
Commission, how to be granted
2112 Adjournments
Certificate of officer; delivery' under seal
Commission, how authenticated and directed.. . . 2113 Transmission, how to be made
"
Notice, thirty days required
2114 Endorsement and record; certificate; delivery ...
Notice, service of
^™ Depositions used as evidence, when
Notice to non- residente
'-116 Exceptions
Notice by publication
211i
Costa, expenses and fees
m
2[a
•2118 Fees
Subpcenas, issue of
2118
Attendance
EVIDENCE—GENERAL PROVISIONS.
§ 207 6. No person offered as a witness shall
excluded, by reason of any alleged incapacity
BCCOrdfrom giving" evidence, either in person or by deP^^]0iiied,
ing to the practice of the court, on the trial
{„ ftny
or of any matter in question or on any inquiry ^
an}.
civil suit, action or proceeding in any comí, ^
judge, coroner, justice of the peace, officer or ¡*>

994—§ 2077]

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

f TIT. XXXIII, CH. HI

rrt s"0' °"ap- 1% ! * ^ ^aw or ^7 consent °i parties, authority to hear,, receive and
examine evidence in this Territory.
§ 2077. Every person so offered shall be admitted to give
Evidence may be evidence on oath or solemn affirmation in those cases wherein
given.
affirmation is#by law receivable; notwithstanding that such
person has an interest in the matter in question, or in the event
of the trial of any issue, matter, question or inquiry, or of the
suit, action or proceeding in which he is offered as a witness.
Id. ! 3
§ 2078. On the trial of any issue joined, or of any matter
Witnesses, may be or question, or on any inquiry arising in any civil suit, action
compeUed to testify . or other proceeding in any court of law or equity in this Terri
tory, or before any person having, by law or by consent of
parties, authority to hear, receive and examine evidence, the
parties to such proceedings, and the persons in whose behalf
any such suit, action or other proceeding is brought or institu
ted, or opposed or defended, shall, except as hereinafter ex
cepted, be competent and compellable to give evidence, either
viva voce or by deposition, according to the practice of the
court, on behalf of themselves or of either of the parties to the
Hnabands and wives 8Uit> action or proceeding; and the husbands and wives of such
competent wiowe.. parties and persons shall, except as hereinafter excepted, be
competent to give evidence, either viva voce or by deposition,
"iarp:
" according to the practice of the court on behalf of either or
any of the parties to the said suit, action or proceeding.
§ 2079. Nothing herein contained shall render any person
^g—-Crimination ol self compellable to answer any question to criminate himself or to
not compellable
subject him to prosecution for any penalty or crime.
^caption in certain § 9 080. Nothing herein contained shall apply to the trial.
in any action, suit or other civil proceeding, of the question of
the adultery of any party, or the husband or wife of any party
id. ! 6
to such action, suit or other proceeding.
§ 2081. No husband shall be compelled to disclose any
Testimony not to be communication made by his wife during the marriage, and no
compeUed.
wife shall be compelled to disclose any communication made to
_Id. 5 7.

her by her husband during the marriage.
•- -j. «,„ Vinirs. executors, admifífr t i i S' °r aSSÍg,ls
8 Sult hy
"gainst the
heirs,an<a opposite or
infer!
of ora deceased
person,
Evidence
not
suffi
nterested party to the suit shall not obtain a verdict, judgment
cient.
.am—
tei.
on thereni, on his own evidence, in respect ol any matsunk ?Tlng before the death of tlle deceased person, unless
e^rtence is corroborated by some other material evidence
S -083.
¿¿£X»I<M, pro conWhenever any party in any civil suit desires to

996—§ 2084]

Judgment m a y be
rendered.
FebL. 1880,
s- chap. 12, S 9;
hi>S^bIoradMto!!!s;

id. i is.
^tooioiMtmut,

_____
w- ! "■
«ni,°pr^fho°w°!of?i
adduced.

"•sis.

[tit. XXXIII, CH. XII.
call the opposite party as a witness at the hearing or trial, he
shall subpoena him as another witness in the cause; and if such
party does not attend on such subpoena and testify, if called
on by the adverse party, such non-attendance or such refusal
to testify shall be taken as an admission pro confesso against
him in any such suitor action, unless otherwise ordered bv the
court or judge, in which or before whom such examination is
pending; and a general finding or judgment may he had
against the party thereon, or the plaintifff may be non-suited,
or the proceedings in the action or suit may be postponed bv
the court or judge on such terms as the court or judge sees fit
to impose.
' 6
8 2084*. I pon the trial of any cause a witness may be crossexamined as to previous statements made by him in writing, or
reduced into writing, relative to the subject matter of the
cause, without such writing being shown to him; but if it is
intended to contradict the witness by the writing, his attention
must> before such contradictory proof can be given, be called
to those parts of the writing which are to be used for the pur
pose of so contradicting hirn.
§ 2085. If a witness, upon cross-examination as toa
former statement made by him relative to the subject matter of
the cause, and inconsistent with his present testimony, does
not distinctly admit that he did make such statement proof
may be given, that he did in fact make it, but before such
proof can be given the circumstances of the supposed statement, sufficient to designate the particular occasion, must lie
mentioned to the witness, and he must be asked whether or not
he did make such statement.
§ 20»C. A witness may be questioned as to whether he has
been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor, and upon being
so questioned, if he either denies the fact or refuses to answer,
the opposite party may prove such conviction ; and a certificate,
the substance and effect only—omitting the formal part—of the
indictment and conviction for such offense, purporting to I*
signed by the clerk of the court or other officer having the
custody of the records of the court at which the offender was
convicted, or by the deputy of such clerk or officer under the
seal of said court, shall, upon proof of the identity of the wit
ness, as such convict, be sufficient evidence of his conviction.
§ 2087. The credit of a witness may be impeached by gen
eral evidence of bad. moral character not restricted to his repu
tation for truth and veracity ; but a party producing a witness
shall not be allowed to impeach his credit by general evidence
of bad moral character, but in case the witness, in the opinion
of the judge, proves adverse, such party inny prove that U>«
witness made at other timas a statement inconsistent with nM
present testimony ; but before such last mentioned proof ™n M

PROCEDURE CIVIL.
998—§ 2088 J
ru mo, ch*p. a, ¡16; given the circumstances of the supposed statement, sufficient to
designate the particular occasion, must be mentioned to the
witness, and he must be asked whether or not he did make such
statement.
aiSi'mip" SómsSént § 2088. Whenever it shall be necessary to use any of the
evidence. '
archives, records, files, or official maps, or plats in the offices
»
of the surveyor general, or secretary of this Territory, as evi
dence in any of the courts of this Territory, it shall be com
petent^ instead of the originals in said offices, to use a transcript
copy, or tracing thereof, or of such part of the same as may he
required, duly certified to be true, and correct, as taken from
the said original archives, records, files, plats or maps, in said
office: and when taken from the originals in the office of the
to'ii'm™ie™'lon' h"" secretary, signed by him and authenticated under his seal of
office ; and when taken from the originals in the office of the
surveyor general, signed by him, and his signature certified to
1 -- his said caul
by the secretary of the Territory
under
seal.
§ 2089. Such transcripts, copy or tracing, as provided for
same
ni the foregoing section, shall be received, taken, and allowed
BeCopley
origínale.
the same force and effect in evidence, as would be allowed to
the originals, should they be used: Provided, however, that
for good cause shown, the court may require the production of
Id. i" 2.
the originals of such transcript, copy or tracing.
evidence,
Account when.
books an §
o ¿U»U.
-Mimi Hereafter
tt
n in the trial of civil causes in the courts
of this Territory, the books of account of any merchant, shop
keeper, physician, blacksmith or other person doing a regular
business and keeping daily entries thereof, may be admitted
in evidence as proof of such accounts upon the following con
ditions:
First—That lie kept no clerk, or else the clerk is dead or in
accessible.
Second—Upon proof (the parties' oath being sufficient) that
theThird—Upon
book tenderedproof
is the(by
book
original entries.
his ofcustomers)
that he usually kept
books.
TngTeHpTsrrn correct
Fourth—Upon
inspection by the court to see if the books
are free from any suspicion of fraud.
Btaab, et al., vk. Jnroniillo, vol. 1, page 57, W. C. Rep.
.^ubKenai,.hotna,
§ 2091. In all cases where witnesses are required in any
• cause pending in any court having a clerk, such clerk, and in
n11 othel' «'ases tlie person holding the court, shall issue a subl«¡'¿¡*?SÍaS?- Pfua for such witnesses, stating the day and place, when and
where, the witnesses are to appear.
§ 2092. Such subpoena shall contain the names of all wit
Hub|><jL-uu
tocnntuhi,
nesses
for whom a summons is required by the same party, at
what.
1 e same time, in the same cause, and who reside in tlie same

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

|>IT. XXXm- 0H- m

1000—§ 2093]
county, and may be served in any county in this Territory, iu
C. L. 18(55, chap. 32, the same manner as a citation or a summons for a defendant.
¡ 7; Sept. 22, 1846.
§ 2093. A witness summoned in any cause pending in any
Capias, when.
court, and failing to attend, may be compelled to appear by
writ of attachment against his body, which may be served in
1.1. ) 8.
any county in this Territory.
§ 2094. When either party to any suit in any court within
Interrogations
to
be
said Territory may wish to avail himself of the testimony of
annexed;
to
be
sworn
to as material.
the adverse party, he shall annex the interrogations which he
wishes answered to his petition or answer (as the case maybe),
and serve the opposite party or his attorney with a copy there
of; but no party shall be bound to answer the same, unless the
party filing them, or his attorney, shall swear that he believes
the same are material to his cause or defense: Provided always.
proviso.
that the party shall have a reasonable time to file his answer
as may seem just, and that such answer shall in like manner
C.
I..
1855,
chap.
32,
5 9; July 12, i«5i.
^e macje under oath.
DEPOSITIONS.
§ 2095. It shall be lawful to take declarations of witnesses,
Repositions, lawful to be used in any court in this Territory, in all civil cases,
when.
when the witness or witnesses may be sick or absent from the
lemtory, or when it is impossible for them to present tkemsiTim-is/HS:
selves before the court which tries the ense to which said
U. L. 18H6, chap. 32,
betaken.0""'110""0 declarations
§ 2096. relate.
Said declarations may be taken before any judge.
or justice of the peace, in the Territory, and when they are
taken they shall be enclosed and sealed by the same judge, or
justice of the peace before whom they were taken, and by him
delivered to the court which tries the case to which said declar
ation relates, or they may be delivered to the clerk of said court
Id. ! 2.
§ 2097. Before taking said declarations, the party who
Notices.
desires to take them shall notify the other partv interested three
days before that, iu which said declaration may be taken, when
the other party resides less than eight leagues from the place
in which they may be taken, and one day for each eight
leagues that said other party may reside from said places,
baid notice may be served by a sheriff, constable, or by the
party himself, or by any one for him. and in such notice the
other party shall be notified of the time and place in which
Id. 5 3.
said
declarations
are taken.or depositions taken in conformity to
§ 2098.
Declarations
Depositions
ns
testl
this
act
shall
be
received
as legal testimony under the follow
nionj-, when.
ing circumstances:
First—When
theunder
witness
may circumstances,
be sick.
becond—When,
existing
it is impossible
that he can present himself before the court
ltiird—When the witness is out of the Territory.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XII.

1002—§ 2099 J
c i lete, cap-^2
Fourth—When the witness has died after giving this declar,4;Jan.l3,'lBKI.
fttion
,n,erroga.oru», «- 8 2099. Each party to any suit in any court within this
tai °'Territory, desiring the testimony of any officer of government,
whose attendance in court would interfere with the discharge
of his official duties, or of any witness residing within the ImW
„, his interrogatories,
• ,
l —:„„ ™.™,iumied
of this Territory, may file
propounded to
such witness, with the clerk of the court in which the suit is
pending, serving the opposite party or his attorney with a copy
Service
of the same, and a notice of at least five full days, and one ad
ditional day for every twenty miles the opposite party or his
attorney, (as the case may be, naming it), Jives from the place
of taking out such commission, that he will on such a day ap
ply to the clerk for a commission to take the answer to such m.
terrogatories; during which time the opposite party, his agent
'
1°m'Bl0- °r attorney, may also file his cross-interrogatories which shall
ries 1 lube embraced in the commission.
oit."' how to , §¿100. On the day specified, either party, after having filed
interrogatories, may apply for and take out said commission,
which shall be issued by the clerk, appointing one or more
commissioners, who shall be either a district judge, chief judge
*
of th.e county, commissioner of deeds for this Territory, notary
public, or two justices of the peace,
beckon;"??I»í?ied° § 2101. Such commissioners shall cause the witness or witdretunled- nesses to come before them, at such time and place as they
may think most convenient and expeditious, and take the an
swers to the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories contained
in the commission, the witness being first sworn to depose the
truth. The witness shall sign the same and they shall also be
certified and signed by the commissioners, enveloped and sealed,
and the names of the commissioners, as such written across the
!E ~
seals. and directed to the clerk of the office from which the
qtUTTOMrt» ioru,u' ™"

commission was issued.
§ 2102. The package may be sent by mail or by private
hand. If by mail, the postmaster at which the same is mailed
shall endorse on the back thereof as follows: "Received of—
, one of the commissioners," and if delivered by private
hands, the person delivering the same into the court or the
clerk shall make affidavit that he received it from one of the
commissioners, that he has had the same in his possession ever
since, and that it has undergone no alteration. The package
shall not be opened but by the court during the session of the

Id. 1 13.
same, or by leave of the clerk in vacation.
„<■ nr of
„r,£?i § * 1 0 3. The testimony of aged « "J^jJ'taken in
beta*™, when.
persons about to depart from this Territory, m»J
^
like manner in regard to any suit pending, or w

1004—§ 2104]

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XIL

c. l.Jan.1866,
chap. 32, son
anticipate,
testimony
this
S 14;
13, 1863.
v nniay
ibe regarded
i n as which
, ,
, bene
,
J in and
, shall
,section
„ not. specified
Íbe used,
shall
taken
de
esse
when the witness can be conveniently brought into court
iiew,'wIhe°n?a,orle"'
.
terrogatories
§ 2104. Any
may party
propound
dissatisfied
others, with
and take
the out
answers
a newtocommis
any insion for the same and other witnesses.
obTMUm<mj- subject to § 2 1 05. All testimony shall be read as evidence, subject to
"cTETisa, chap. 32, all objections as if the witness were in court in person.
¡ 16; Jan. 16, 1858. Tr.
Depositions may be § 21 00. Hereafter in all civil actions pending in the distoken bejond county
COUI^ depositions of all witnesses who may reside beyond
ld. 1 17,
the limits of the county in which the court is held, shall be
taken under the same rules and provisions as above.
u.'SuSeS*' how §2107. The deposition of witnesses maybe taken in all
suits in this Territory acccording to the above provisions by
any disinterested person ; such person upon being conimisioned
~E 1878, chap, i, j i; for such purpose shall take and subscribe an oath faithfully to
perform his duties before proceeding therewith.
§ 2101!. In case a party to any civil suit or action is resi
Testimonyhowrf tononbe dent out of this Territory, or out of the county where such ac
residents,
taken.
tion is brought or to be tried, and in case the opposite party
desires to examine such non-resident party as a witness, a com
mission may be issued for the examination of such non-resident
l. 1880, chop. 12, s io; party in the same manner as a commission may be issued tor
rebthe examination of other witnesses.
iufu»ai authorize. 8 2109. If such party refuses to attend and testify before
judgment or non-suit. the
- O commissioner,
.
r refusal
J
. proved by affidavit
_,
,i
such
being
or. u»
commissioner or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court m
which the suit or trial is pending, shall authorize a verdict or
judgment to pass against the party, or he shall become non
suited: Provided, that a copy of this section shall be attached
Id. } 11.
to the commission when issued.
wítítfo'SSiíS&S: § 2 1 1 0. All examination of witnesses before commissioners
riM'
shall be upon written interrogatories propounded to the wit
ness annexed to said commission, and neither party shall be
present at said examination unless reasonable notice is given
M- ¡ la°y the party desiring to be present and either party desiring
to be present at said examination may examine upon notice.
Ayere, executor, etc. , vs. Chisum, vol. 1. page 520. W. C Rep.
PERPETUATING TESTIMONY.
pe'rú'SX&S- § 21 J
Depositions of witnesses to perpetuate testimony
m«y be taken, when! may be taken, whether the person desiring the taking of ül°
same is a party, or expects to be a party, to a suit pending of
about to be commenced, or not, in any court of this Territory,

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XII.

1006—§ 2112]
and the object is to perpetuate the contents of any lost deed or
L. 1882, chap. 12, 5 1: any other instrument of writing, or the remembrance of any
Feb. 8.
fact, matter or thing necessary to recovery, security or defense
of any estate or property, real or personal, or any interest
therein, or any other personal right.
§ 2 1 1 2. A commission shall be granted to take such depo
toCommission,
be grunted. how sitions, by any chief justice or associate justice of the court, on
the presentation of a petition in writing, of one or more parties,
supported by his or their affidavit, or the affidavit of some cred
ible person, setting forth the nature of his or their interest
right or claim, the facts intended to be proven, the names of
id. j 2.
the individuals whose testimony is desired, and the place or
places of their residence,
commission, how to & 2 1 1 ¡). The commission shall be issued by the clerk of
directed.
tie authenticated nnd the
, , ° district
,. . court in
. which
, . . the judge
. , granting
, . the
,, same pre
sides, and, being witnessed by the clerk and the seal of the
court, shall be directed to any judge, justice of the peace, no
tary public or clerk of any court of record or any other respon
sible person named by the judge being in the judicial district
where such testimony is to be taken, requiring such judge, jus
tice, notary, clerk or other person to take the depositions of the
witnesses therein named, or in case the witness or witnesses
whose testimony is desired, reside out of this Territory, such
commission may be directed to and executed by any clerk or
id. [ 3.
judge of a court of record, or notary public in any of the United
States.
§ 2 1 14. The party applying for the commission shall gi«
Notice, thirty days notice, in writing, of the time and place of taking such deposi
required.
tions to every person who may be known to be interested, or
his or their agent or attorney, at least thirty days before tlie
taking of the same, and a copy of .the petition and affidavit upon
which the commission was granted shall accompany the notice.
Id. ; A.
§ 2 1 1 5. In case the person interested be a married woman
Notice, service oí the notice shall be served on her and her husband if they a «
living together; if a minor on the guardian of such mulor:,™
on such minor if over the age of fourteen years and residíug
i¿7íT.
within this Territory. A guardian ad lifem may be »PFin
by the judge granting the petition when there is no guara
§ 2 1 1 6. The publication of this notice in some n«w^8^
Notice to non-reei' printed in this Territory at least three weeks consecutively,
dent*.
last insertion to be twenty days before the day of tak,nP,.
depositions, shall be sufficient notice to all persons resu 6
without the Territory and to unknown persons living in tn
Id. { 6.
13.
u Notice b, „ni>iic«- ritory.
§ 2 I I 7. Parties applying for commissions, shall, H>
tion to the notice required in the last three preceding seen

1008—§ 2118 ]

Procedure civil.

[tit. xxxtii, CH. XII.

give a general notice in the nearest newspaper to the place
L. 1882, chai». Mf 5 7; where the depositions are to be taken for four consecutive
Feb. 8.
weeks, of the time and place of taking the depositions, and the
object thereof. When depositions are to be taken in two or
more places in the same case, then notiee to be published in
some newspaper published nearest to some one of the places,
and only one publication shall be required.
§ 2118. The officer or person named in the commission
Subpoenas, issue of.
may issue a subpoena to such witnesses, requiring them to ap
pear and testify at a time and place therein named and may en
"id. 5 8.
force obedience thereto by attachment
§ 2119. Such officer shall attend at the time and place for
Attendance.
taking
such depositions.
Id. 5 9§ 2120. If it shall appear to sucli judge, justice, clerk or
Interrogatories.
person named that notice has been given as required by this
act, such officer shall then and there reduce to writing all the
questions put to witnesses by the party desiring such deposi
tions, and also all the questions put by all and every person at
tending who shall feel interested, who shall be at liberty to ex
Cross-examinations.
amine and cross-examine all the witnesses.
§ 2121. Such officer shall also reduce to writing all the an
Testimony to be swers of the witnesses to such questions, and all such answers
signed.
and questions shall be written in the English or Spanish lan
guages, and being distinctly read to such witnesses, shall be
Id.
sworn to and subscribed by them.
§ 2122. The officer shall have power to adjourn from day
Adjournments,
to day the taking of such depositions when the same shall be
Id. J 12.
necessary.
§ 2123. The officer taking such depositions shall attach
Certificate of officer. thereto his certificate stating the time and place, when and
where such depositions -,vere taken, that the witnesses were
duly sworn as to the truth of their depositions, and that they
subscribed the same; and shall enclose them together with the
commission and the evidence of notice, and the whole being
carefully sealed up shall be delivered by the officer to the re
Delivery under seal. corder of the county in which the suit is pending or in which
the property or matter is situate or belongs to which such dep
Id. 5 13.
ositions
relate.If the officer taking such depositions resides at
§ 2124.
Transmission,
how
such
distance
from the recorder's office where such depositions
to be made.
properly belong, as to prevent an immediate delivery thereof,
then it shall be lawful to send the same by mail or other sate
Id. 4 14.
conveyance.
§ 2125. The recorder of the county where such deposi
Endiwmem
and
tions
properly belong shall, on receiving the same, endorse tne
record.

1010—§ 2126]
manner of their transmission to him, and immediately record
the depositions with the accompanying papers in a book to be
kept by him for that purpose, and shall be known as the book
of depositions, and his certificate as to the manner of their
transmission, and shall make his certificate on the back of the
Certificate.
depositions, that the same, together with the accompanying pa
pers, naming them, were by him duly recorded, and deliver the
Delivery.
i5{'FeDS28.cl'°p**• 5 or'g'nal depositions and accompanying papers to the party on
"~L. 1882, chap. VI, 5 whose petition the commission issued.
u¿dPat"eTi"de?c1ee §2126. Depositions taken and certified in conformity to
»ben.
• the preceding provisions, or duly certified copies of the record
of such depositions, may be used and read as evidence in any
cause or judicial proceeding to which they relate in favor of
any parties thereto, or any or either of them, or their executors
or administrators, heirs or assigns, or their legal representa
tives: First—if the deponent is dead; second—if he be unable
to give testimony by reason of insanity or imbecility of mind;
third—if he be rendered incompetent by judgment of law;
Tjrns
fourth—it he be removed out of the Territory so that his testi
Eioeptioiu..
-,d 8 „ ■

cannot All
be obtained.
• mony
§2127.
legal exceptions may be taken and allowed to
the reading of such depositions in any trial in which the same

be offeredThe
in evidence.
tee,08"' (""",n«* ""i may
§ 2128.
costs and expenses of taking the depositions
shall be audited and allowed by the officer taking the same;
and such costs and expenses, together with the fees of record
ing and copying the same, shall be taxed in favor of the party
or parties paying the same, and collected as other costs iu the
suit or suits in which such depositions or any part thereof may
Id. } 18.

"Id. i 19.

§ 2129. The fees of the probate clerk and ex-officio re
be*used.
corder for recording said depositions and certifying the same,
shall be the same as are now allowed by law for recording and
certifying deeds; and the fees of witness shall be the same as
are now paid to witnesses in the district court in civil cases;
and the fees of the officers taking the depositions shall be five
per day for each day of actual and necessary service.
- - dollars
an

CHAPTER Xlll.

lb-default
In vacation, «linsand entry
Docketing; effect
Certain declared liens
Become liens, when

JUDGMENTS.
SECTION
213!
Section .
""
™» ^r8t°'r™W,;:r «rdict
■• ,','bow21ESJ
2l*
tW
X&^L:-----''*
21Ü
¿™¿ ,UHí .
2133 Effect of
2134

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

f TU. XXXIII, CH. UL

1012—§ 2130]
JUDGMENTS.
judgment „y de- § 2 1 30. On the third day of the term, if ™ ^^fl*
and if the demand be for a sum certain («
J
TOST^; plaintifff may take his judgment fina :
, St, U $ «iiendant shall have the right to file his answer at any tune Defore judgment is entered.
Stewart vs. Maxwell, vol. 1, page M3, N. M. Rep.
8 2131. Cases which are argued or submitted to the suJudgments
vaca mime court during any term thereof, may be decided in ™tlon,
Sltng andinentry.
Ltton by a judgment in'writing filed by the judges hereJ
any two thereof and thereupon the clerk shall enter Buc ,ud
inm^ñ; ment nunc pro lune as of the terms at which such cases
l_d. J.OO.1,
f«>>iR- CUO,/" *Ot * argued or submitted.
U. B. vb. Lewis, vol. 2, page 459, N. M. Rep
■ Ü jjudgments hereafter rendered and now pend
ingJudgments,
of; effect. docket ing in the district courts of this Territory, shall be docketed bv
tne clerk of the court in a book to be kept by him for that pur'Pose- J udgments heretofore rendered may be docketed as here¿ Wí.oSip^Tí in and as hereinafter provided, and shall become liens on real
estate from the date of docketing.
§ 21 33. Judgments rendered in tlie district courts held in
Judgments,
for the counties of Santa Fé, Bernalillo and Doña Ana.
declared
llene. certain and
respectively, shall become, and are hereby declared to be liens
upon the real estate of the judgment debtor, situated in the
county in vhidi the judgment is rendered, from the date of the
" Id. § 2.
rendering
§ 2 1 34.thereof.
Judgments rendered in the district courts held in
and for the other counties of the Territory, shall become liens
Judgments
become
liens, when.
upon the real estate of the judgment debtor upon filing in the
office of the clerk of the probate court of the county in which
such real estate is situated, a certified copy or transcript of the
id. i 8.
docket
of the The
judgment
§ 2135.
clerks of the probate courts of the several
counties of the Territory, except the counties hereinbefore
Judgments,
coplee
entered.
to be entt
named, shall enter in books to be kept by them for that pur
pose, the copies of judgments filed in their offices, designating
in such entry the day and the hour of the day on which the
Id. 5 4.
transcript docket of the judgment is filed
veí § 2135-A. If either party to any suit shall die between
Judgment,
when a ver«lct nnfl judgment, the judgment shall be entered ns if both
party
dies after
diet.
i».JTu7nia,,.
were living.
r4™y b0 parties
§ 213(5.
When any execution issued by a justice of the
peace is returned nulla bona the judgment sought to be en
forced thereby may, upon the application of the judgment credPROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. XIV.

1014—§2137 J

Execution may
sue, how.
Proviso.

itor, or his agent, be docketed by the clerk of the district court
for the comity within which the justice is holding office, and
acting as such justice, in the same manner in which judgments
of the district court are docketed in accordance with the pro
visions of the preceding four sections, and thereupon the clerk
of said district court may issue execution on said judgment in
the same way and with the same force and effect as though
said judgment had been recorded in said district court: Pro
vided, that the judgment creditor making such application, as
aforesaid, shall file with the clerk of the district court a duly
certified transcript of the judgment, and also a duly certified
copy of the execution issued by the justice and of the return

L.'lSSJ, chap. 31, f 1;
Aprils.
-"• ' ' thereon.
§ 2137. All provisions of sections 2132 to 2135, relative
to judgments of the district courts, shall be held to apply
..f
equally to judgments of justices of the peace, which may be
Id. { 2.
docketed in the manner provided in the next preceding section.

CHAPTER XIV.
ABATEMENT ANT) REVIVOR.
8KT10S
Section.
death of plaintifff.
■■
Revivor,
in
whose
name
on
j0,„n(1anl
Action* additional which acrvive
2ISH Revivor, in whose name on death of defendant ^
Actions pending shall not abale, when; excep
Revivor, against heirs, when.... .. •
■•■ ajll
^
tions
21»» Revivor, unless by consent, limited
Procednre if either party dies
2140 Revivor, limitations of
ayJ
Procedure in discretion of court
2141 Stricken from docket, when
•• ■ •
^
Revivor after death of party, when
2142 Stricken from docket, after notice. WW— -- &
Trial
not
to
be
postponed,
when
'
■
2)S
Revivor, how mude
214g
Ortler
how
made
2144
Actions
do
notábate,
how
Action stands revived, when
214*i
Service by publication, when
2140
ABATEMENT AND REVIVOR.
§ 2 1 38. In addition to the causes of action which survive
Actions
addition
at
common law, causes of action for mesne profits, or for an
al which survive.
injury to real or personal estate, or for any deceit or fraud.
T; shall also survive, and the action may be brought, notwithstand
L.
1881,
chap.
5,
}
ing the death of the person entitled or. liable to the same.
March 31 .
§ 2 1 39. No action pending in any court shall abate by tie
death of either or both the parties thereto, except an action for
Actions
pending
shall
not
abate;
excep
libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault, or assault and
tions.
battery, for a nuisance, or against a justice of the peace for
misconduct in office, which shall abate by the death of the
Id. S 2p¿5*S2r " ^ defendant.
S 2 1 40. Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants in
hii action, and one of them dies, or his powers as a personal

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

I TIT. XXXIÍI, CH. XIV.

1016—§ 2141 J
L. IBS lMarch

representative cease, if the right of action Burmes J oragau^
the remaining parties, the action may proceed, the death of the
party or the cessation of his powers being stated on the record.

§ 2141. Where one of several plaintifffs or defendants (lies,
Procedure
tion
of court.in discre or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the cause of
action do not admit of survivorship, and the court is of opinion
that the merits of the controversy can be properly determined
and the principles applicable to the case fully settled, it may
proceed to try the same as between the remaining parties, but
the judgment shall not prejudice any who were not parties at
Id. ¡ i.
the time of the trial.
•*Sn£¿E£L
§ 2142. When one of the parties to an action dies, or his
powers as a personal representative cease before the judgment,
if the right of action survive in favor of or against his repre
sentative or successor, the action may be revived and proceed
III. s 5.
in their names.
Revivor, how to be §2143. The revivor shall be by a conditional order of the
court, if made in xterm, or
— by
»»- .a judge
inrlo-o tWeof.
thereof, if in vacation,
nmde
that the action be revived in the names of the representatives
or successor of the party who died, or whose powers ceased
Id. f 0.
and proceed in favor of or against them.
§ 2144. The order may be made on the motion of the ad
Order, how may be verse party, or of the representatives or successor of the party
who died, or whose powers cease, suggesting his death, or the
cessation of his powers, which with the names and capacities of
his representatives or successors, shall be stated in the order.
Id. i 7.
§ 2145. If the order is made by consent of the parties, the
Actionwhen.
stands re action shall forthwith stand revived; and if not made by con
vived,
sent, the order shall be served in the same manner, and re
turned within the same time as a summons upon the party ad
verse to the one making the motion, and if sufficient cause be
not shown against the revivor, the action shall stand revived
Id. 1 8.
§ 2 1 46. When the plaintifff shall make an affidavit that the
representatives of the defendant, or any of them, in whose name
Service
tion,
when.by publica the action may be ordered to be revived, are non-residents of
the Territory, or have left the same to avoid the service of the
order, or so concealed themselves that the order cannot be
served upon them, or that the names and residence of the heirs
or devisees of the person against whom the action may be or
dered to be revived, or some of them are unknown to the affiant,
a notice may be published for four consecutive weeks in some
newspaper published in the county, notifying them to appear
on a day therein named and show cause why the action should
not be revived against them ; and if sufficient cause be not shown
Id. ! 9.
to the contrary, the action shall stand revived.

i0*8—§214? 1

Í-ROCBDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. XIY.

§ 2 147. Upon the death of the plaintifff in an action, it may
Revivor
í n whoseof be revived in the names of his representatives to whom his
nume
on death
plaintifff.
rights have passed; where his right has passed to his personal
representatives the revivor shall be in his name; where it has
M«¿achap-Mll,; PassecJ to his heirs or devisees who could support the action if
brought anew, the revivor may be in their names.
n™e'onriieath orS . §2148. Upon the death of a defendant in an action, where
in the right or any part thereof, survives against his personal
representatives, the revivor shall be against him, and it may
also be against the heirs or devisees of the defendant, or both,
when the right of action or any part thereof survives against
Id. § 11.
them.
§ 214Í). Upon the death of a defendant in an action for
Revivor against
heirs, when.
the recovery of real property only, or which concerns only his
rights or claims to such property, the action may be revived
against his heirs or devisees, or both ; and an order therefore
may be forthwith made, in the manner directed in the preced
Id. { 12.
ing sections.
§ 2150. An order to revive an action against the repre
itevivor,limited.
unless by sentatives or successor of a defendant, shall not be made with
rnuHent,
out the consent of such representative or successor, unless in
III. i 13.
one year from the time it could have been first made.
§2151. An order to revive an action in the names of the
Revivor, Unlltatinns representatives or successor of a plaintifff may be made forth
ot.
with, but shall not be made without the consent of the defend
ant, after the expiration of one year from the time the order
might have been first made; but where the defendant shall also
have died, or his power have ceased in the mean time, the order
of revivor on both sides may be made in the period limited in
Id. } 14.
the last section.
stricken,™ dock- § 2152. When it appears to the court by affidavit that
either party to an action has been dead, or where a party sues,
et,strickei
when.
or is sued as a personal representative, that his powers have
ceased for a period so long that the action cannot be revived
in the names of his representatives or successor, without the
consent of both parties, it shall order the action to be stricken
id. ! IS.
from the docket.
M"3toÍM¡£T¡rt£2r
§ 2 1 5 3. At any term of the court succeeding the death of
Stricken from dock- the plaintifff, while the action remains on the docket, the de
fendant having given to the plaintifff's proper representative, m
whose names the action might be revived, ten days notice ot
the application therefore may have an order to strike the action
from the docket, and for costs against the estate of the plaint*,
Id: j 16.
unless the nction is forthwith revived.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

| TIT. XXXIII, CH. XV.

1020—§ 2154]
póSSí1 wíen

pí>f<t"

§ 2154. AVhen, by the provisions of the preceding sec
tions, an action stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be
postponed by reason of the revivor, if the action would have
stood for trial at the term the revivor is complete, had not death
L. 1884. chap. B, f I?
March 31.
or cessation of powers taken place.
^Actionsdo not«bate,
§ 2155- No action shall abate by the transfer of any inl. laso, chap. 6, j 9; terest therein during its pendency.
[Section 2156 transferred to section 2135-a.]

CHAPTER XV.
EXECUTIONS.
Bectios.
Section.
.... an
Value,
ascertainment
of
2157 Appraisers, how to be chosen
.... Ml
Execution to follow judgment
2158 Appraisers, substitution of
. 2171
Execution rune against, what
2159 Appraisers to value list furnished
2175
Levy, notice to debtors
2160
BN
Schedule to be sworn to
t
list of, how to be furnished
2161 Encumbrances,
31T3
Schedule, trial upon
Appraisers,
oath
of;
to
schedule
2UiÜ Encumbrances, purchaser may clear; redemption,
Bond for property
2168
Officer liable, when
right of
217*
2164 Return
Sales, how to be regulated
failure
to sell execution again to
2167 Lien of after
the levy
continues;
Executions by justices
2W
2168 issue
Executions, how returnable; salee under
Principal to be first exhausted; issue simultane
Property may be re-offered; re-valuation
2170
Property
conveyed
fraudulently
•««■
^
ously, when
Real property to realize two-tbirds appraised
Execution
against
body,
when
2171
value

Execution to follow
judgment.
chap. 34,
L. WÍ !, 1846.
t ljC. Sept.*.
Exe outlon
against,
what. rune
Id. Í 2.
or?.Levy, notice to debt

EXECUTIONS.
§ 2157. The party in whose favor any judgment, order or
decree in any court may be returned, shall have execution
therefore in conformity to the order, judgment, or decree
Delgado,
vol. 1, pageshall
376, N.beM.against
Rep.
§ Crenshaw
2 1 58. vs. The
execution
the goods, chattels,
lands and body of the defendant against whom the judgment,
order or decree shall be rendered: Provided, that executions
from justices of the peace shall not go against lands.
§ 2159. When any execution shall be placed in the hands
of any officer for collection, he shall call upon the defendant
for payment thereof, or to show him sufficient goods, chattels,
effects and lands whereof the same may be satisfied; and if fl»
officer fail to find property sufficient to make the same he shall
notify all persons who may be indebted to said defendant not
to pay sai.l defendant, but to appear before the court out of
which said execution issued and make true answers on oath
concerning his indebtedness, and the like proceedings shall be
had as in cases of garnishees summoned in suits originating by

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[tit. xxxin, ch. xv.

1022—§ 2160 1
attachments. If the officer shall not find sufficient goods, chat
L. 1H65,
chap. 5M, tels, effects, lands or debts to satisfy the execution, he shall
9 3;C. Sept.
22, 184G.
arrest the body of the defendant, and in default of payment
commit him to jail. § 2 ICO. Any defendant so committed to jail may, at the
Schedule to be sworn expiration of five days from the day of his commitment, be
to.
discharged upon rendering a schedule, under oath, of all his
property, money and effects, and delivering the same to the
sheriff of the county ; the sheriff shall have power to administer
Id. [ 1.
the oath aforesaid to said defendant.
§ 2161. The truth of such schedule may be tried on the
Schedule, trial upon. return of the execution before the tribunal which issued the
same, and if it be found untrue the body of the defendant may
be retaken and committed to jail to await his trial for perjury.
Id. ¡ 5.
§ 2162. The person whose goods are taken on execution,
Bond for property. may retain possession thereof until the day of sale, by giving
bond in favor of the plaintifff with sufficient security to be ap
proved by the officer in double the value of such property, con
ditioned for the delivery of the property' to the officer at the
time and place of sale, to be named in such condition, which
Id. i 6.
bond shall be returned with the execution.
§ 2163. Upon the failure of the officer to return such
Officer liable.
bond, or in case of its insufficiency, the officer shall be sub
jected t<> the same liability as is provided in the case of simi
Id. ! 7.
lar bonds in suits commenced by attachment.
§ 2 1 64. No goods and chattels, or other personal effects
Sales, how to be reg taken by virtue of an execution, shall be sold until the officer
ulated.
having charge of the writ shall have given ten days notice of
the time and place of sale, and of the property to be sold, by a
least three advertisements put up at public places in the county
Id. Í 8.
in which the sale is to be made.
[ Sections 2Wt and 21(16 substituted and omitted. 1
§2167. All executions issued by justices of the peace shall
ces.Executions by Justi be returnable in thirty days from their date.
§ 2 1 68. All the executions taken out of said district courts
Executions,
how
re
shall
returned within sixty days from the date of the a
turnable; pales under. livery be
thereof, to the sheriff or other officer, or person wto'se
duty it is, or who may be designated to serve the same; ana
such
such sheriff
sheriff or
or other
other officer
officer or
or person,
person, may
m»j offer
- tor ,sa
be desig.
sell at public auction, at such time and place, a
^
naten
appraisenated. anv real estate taken by virtue ot Bncn
the provisions of the law ?^dmg » ^ ^
plvmg witl bv giving twenty days public notice of
meats, and by giving twenty days puouc
^ A„
A11
place of the sale, in the manner now ProvulJ maybesold
personal property token by virtue of any exec'u
aplicá
is now provided by law. All executions may issue

PROCEDÜRÉ CIVIL.

[TIT. XXÍIU, CH' Xt'

1024—§ 2170J
j l. ím^chap. us, { 2; tion, and the service and return thereof shall be controlled by
the plaintifff or his agent.
[Section 2169 obsolete and omitted.J
eihauit«iBl 10
§2170. No execution shall issue against any security on
any promissory note, bond, bond for costs, appeal bond, or other
obligation for the payment of money or property, until execu
tion shall have been first issued against the principal in any
such note or obligation, and levied upon all the real estate or
other property of said principal, which may be within the juris
diction of the court, in which the judgment may have been
rendered: Provided, that whenever the plaintifff in any such
execution shall file in the court in which the judgment is pend
ing an affidavit in relation to such security or securities similar
to the one required by law, to be filed previous to issuing an
attachment, then in such case execution shall issue simultane~~iri,*MM
chap at ously against the principal and the security against whom the
Issue simultaneousus; Jan. if, 1867. ' said affidavit be filed.
dSSTi^Hfi&iStSZ § 2171. No real property shall be sold on any execution
issued out of any court in any case at law for less than twol. i88i, chap, li, fii thirds of the appraised cash value thereof, exclusive of liens
April 3.
J
i
r
ana encumbrances.
§ 2172. The sheriff between the days of levying the exeJp^TcSii^jr
Value, ascertain ?, n ,and the sale of the property, shall proceed to ascertain
ment of.
i * Feb. 4 w. t,. the cash value of such property as Mlows:
tafi*"1 bov «° §■2173. For that purpose two disinterested householders
of the neighborhood where the levy is made shall be selected
as appraisers, one of whom shall besel ected by each of the
parties or their agents, or in the absence of either party or his
agent, or upon the refusal of either party, after three days' no
tice by the sheriff to make the selection, the sheriff shall pro
ceed to select the appraisers, who shall proceed to appraise the
property according to its cash value at the time, deducting liens
and encumbrances; and in case of their disagreement as to the
value thereof, they shall select a like disinterested appraiser,
and with his assistance shall complete the valuation, and the
appraisement of any two of them shall be deemed the cash
value.
§ 2 1 74. In case any appraiser shaU'fail to «j* *J* M
uorfSt
pl(fte such valuation, another shall be chosen
—idTs^
" above provided.
,
a
§ 2175. The sheriff shall ^,^jS^^
hedule of the property levied on with thei
the, ene
^ op.
listAppraisers
furnished.to value schedule
known to him, and they shall proceed to ta, a
^ vftlue,
posite
of ™a\ef**\ule shall be re^lUSlbC to
M\J each
T5n\Ji± tract, lot
a.~~ or parcel
£rWI ..nt/incr liens
Hens and
and encumbrances,
encumbrances, wliicn s
u, ¡ g:
deducting
turned to the sheriff.
.u^tituPBOCEDUBE CIVIL.

\™- XXXIII, CH. XV.

1026—§ 2176]
.,,
litis
ftEncumbrances,
»ow * be Ornishg 9 1 7 fi It shall not be the duty of the sheriff or appraisS3 ¿ I I O.rtain
" ^ ftmount
uu" o£...lieM 0r
J encumbrances
i.,-™, Vint
bu Plther
eith
party may furnish the sheriff with a list thereof, with the

i ^FeK'iOTf'TÍ: amount and nature of each.
§ 111 t. The appraisers shall take and subscribe an oath
Appraisers, oath of; annexed to such appraisements, to the effect, that the property
u> schedule.
mentioned in the schedule is, to the best of their judgment
worth the sums specified therein, that the same is the fair cash
value thereof, at the time, exclusive of liens and encumbrances;
winch oath the sheriff is authorized to administer and attest
Id. ! 2!.
when taken and subscribed by the appraisers.
§ 2178. When any property shall be sold subject to liens
Encumbrances, pur and encumbrances, the purchaser may pay the liena and encum
chaser may clear.
brances, and hold the property discharged from all claims of
the defendant in execution ; but the defendant may redeem the
property within one yeara fter the sale thereof, paying to the
purchaser, his heirs or assigns, the purchase money with inter
est; when redeemed, the purchaser shall have the growing
M
Kedeiuptiou,
right croPs' aud shall not be responsible for rents and profits, but lie
JSST "'ter mui«
■ti t a

shall account for wastes.
§ 21 79. When any property levied on remains unsold, it
shall be the duty of the sheriff, when he returns the execution,
to return the appraisement therewith, stating in his return the
failure to sell, and the cause of the failure.

Ü ""

Execution again
issue .
id. ¡ 30.
offered; re-vduation.

-¡¡¡rm

¿SO,?™-■
id. 5 ;

. § 2180. The lien of the levy upon the property shall con
tinue until the debt is paid, and the clerk, unless otherwise di
rected by the plaintifff, shall forthwith issue another execution,
reciting the return of the former execution, the levy and failnw
to sell, and directing the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of
the property unsold, if the same is sufficient, if not, then out
of any other property of the debtor, subject to execution.
§ - 181. Whenever any property levied upon remains flo
re off* J"?
buyers' the Plaintiff may cause the same to be
at hZ
, any tlme before the return day of the execution,
the n,
Jt8 °uten 08 he may direct> but in case of the s8lP "f
a-,;,, , ??rty' the costs of such offer and sale shall be taxed
^a ist the defendant; each party may have one re-valuation
the property, at his costs, after the first offer to sell.
§ 2182. Property conveyed by a debtor with inteni to
praisement ^ defrnud cre'l"ors, shall be sold without apPBOCEDURE CIVIL.

[TFT. XXXIII, OH. XVI.

1028—§ 2183]
.......

§ 2 1 8 3. No execution shall be issued «F*^ J^6°
against the body of any execution debtor,
fraud and personal injuries: Pravided, that the detadurt n
^b^Tsí execution, shall present under oath a schedule, containing
¡33; Feb. 4, 1867. Tr. of hig property; money, rights and credits.

CHAPTEB XVI.
APPEALS AND WRITS OF ERROR.
8ICTI0S.
, , ••■
.. 2191
Section.
, , .
2184 Damages, how tobe awarded...
M„
Appeals,
conduct
of
..
|
^emlnatioii.
how
to
be
executed
From district and supreme court
JWj I Appeal, all cause, subject to
«"
Appeals, wheu tobeallowed
— M ^1 how to be taken; writ- of error, how
Executions, when stayed by appeals; bond, con- ^ | ^3'.
allowed to execute bond
■ ¿«
.... of,
218Í Exceptions, how tobe taken.... ■ •■
m
ditions
Exceptions
■■ "
Bills of exception tobeBetÜed,wl.en..^_
Appeals, when returnable; transcripts, tiling of;
Writs of error, grant of limited to ons' «
judgment to be affirmed, when; appeal to be
Record of lower conrt to be printed, when
dismissed,
Record
facts when
alone to be considered
'¿19ü
APPEALS AND WRITS OF ERROR.
-&TT&^"°1°'¿ «fi?*m*' • Á^ °ivil cnuses that may be appealed, in any court
fui jan. so, un»? tÍÍ of thls Territory, shall be conducted as hereinafter provided.
prem°courtrict *° "u~ § 2185. AH suits brought in the district courts, in this
Territory, which suits shall have been determined in said court,
if either of the parties shall desire to take an appeal from the
judgment of said court to the supreme court, on complying
with the provisions of the law regulating appeals, said appeal
may be granted, which, on being taken to the supreme court,
tbe snme shall be there final and conclusive, without recourse
id. iffi
or appeal, when the amount in litigation does not exceed one
thousand
dollars.
Huntington
vs. Moore, vol. Ijpage 47LN . M^Rep.
Pino
vs.
Beckwitb,
vol. 1, P»B?1%N
^b™
„. J
Aubryvs.
Nangle,
vol.1,
US, N.M.Kep.
,„W ñr
fWl-bryvs.Nangle,
page
U3,
theSaDIi6i'u Ií°,eUCh
appeal
shaI1 be allo™d. unless:
Appeals, when to be decision *™ ^ at the Same term at which' the judgment or
allowed.
appellantW fpom Was ^dered: and, seconds-Zee* the
ffi líVf Sha11' dnlinS the same term, file in the
Zlse\f tSt'ltmS U»t ™ch fppeal is »ot taken for the
Í that the »n lif*^11 °r dela^ but because the affiant believes
" e court
18 "8*™*** b7 the judgment or decision of
C. L. 1865, chap. 16, v
S 8; Sept. 22, 1846.
.
,
the
sha»court.
m«L Cp°", the !1PPeal being ««de, the district court
stay the pv
°ri.ier illlol™)g the same; such allowance shall
when L
!im m Ule follo™g cases and no others: ÍWw appellant shall be executor or administrator, and the

1030-§ 2188 I

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. XTL

Bond, condition. of. aetiou by or against him as such; second—when the appellant,
or some responsible person for him, together with two sufficient
securities, to be approved by the court, during the same term
at which the judgment or decision appealed from was rendered,
enter into a recognizance to the adverse party in a sum suffi
cient to secure the debt, damages, and costs recovered by such
judgment or decision, together with the interest that may grow
thereon, and the costs and damages which may be recovered in
the supreme court, conditioned that the appellant shall prosecute
his appeal with due diligence to a decision in the supreme court,
and that the judgment or decision appealed from be affirmed, or
tüe appeal be dismissed, that he will perform the judgment of
i i- sSpt^Ü §3?' 161 file district court, and that he will also pay the costs and damages
that may be adjudged against him upon his appeal.
F"re"""u-"Id- 5 r§ 2 1 88. No exception shall be taken in an appeal to any
proceeding in the district court, except such as shall have been

expressly decided in that court.
§ 2189. All appeals taken thirty days before the first day
Appeale, when re- of the next term of■* the supreme
armmme court, shall be
l>, tried
tr„,. at
,u that
ieim and appeals, taken in less than thirty days before the
nrst day of such next term, shall be returnable to the next term
Hereafter; the appellant shall file in the office of the clerk of
, s"Pre"'e court, at least ten days before the first day of
Tr&njtcript filing of.
Mien court to which the appeal is returnable, a perfect tran
script of the record and proceedings in the case. If be fail to
ao so, the appellee may produce in court such transcript, and if
•i..dpnen, „, „, ÍÍ "PPeal' thereby that an appeal has been allowed in the cause,
n™eJ,.hen.
" the court shall affirm the judgment, unless gocxl cause cm be
snown to the contrary. On appeals and writs of error, the ap
pellant* 1 plaintifff in error shall assign errors on or before
me tost day of the term to which the cause is returnable; in deAppoai io be di*u B?°h nssignment of errors, the appeal or writ of error
mi«ed,»hen.
may be dismissed, and the judgment affirmed, unless good
cause for such failure be shown ; joinders in error shall be filed
within four days after the time required for the filing of the
Id. s r>.
assignment
error.
§ 2190. ofThe
supreme court in appeals or writs of error
shall
examine
the record, and on the facts thereon contained
Record
fact,
nlone
to be considered.
____ alone shall award a new trial, reverse or affirm the judgment
01 the district court, or give such other judgment as to them
shall seem agreeable to law.
Bade.nl „. Bacn, ,ol. 2, page 194, N. M Rep
3 ¿191. And upon the affirmation of any judgment or
Damage., how to bo •lecision
p> • , the supreme court may award to the appellee, or deaward
11 Ut Iu em,r> such damages, not exceeding ten per cent on
ie amount of the judgment complained of, as may be just.
Id. i 8.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. XVI.

1032—§ 2192]
tob^SSSSS^** fcow

§2192. The supreme court, on the determination of the
cause in .appeal or error, may award execution to carry the
same into effect, or may remit the record with their decision
to the district court from which the cause came, and such de^■¿p,1^; gg1- 16' termination shall be carried into execution by such district
court.
§2193. All causes, either inlaw or equity, finally ad
judged or determined in the district courts, may be removed
^7i88o, ch»¿: w,TT; into the supreme court of the Territory for review, either by
■ i of* error.
appeal1 or writ
Kidder
vs. Bennett,
vol
page
N . M. Rep.
maaervB.
oeunen,
vu; . 2,-. shall
, .,. 37,be
*«>'•
§2194. Appeals
taken and allowed, as now pro
Appeals, how to be ved hY law- The clerk of the supreme court shall issue a
taken.
w™. „( error, how writ of error to bring into the supreme court any cause finally
adjudged or determined in any of the district courts upon a
prsecipe therefore, filed in his office by any of the parties to such
cause, his attorney or solicitor, at any time within one year
from the date of such judgment or determination, and giving
security for costs therein to the satisfaction of the clerk. But
there shall be no supersedeas or stay of execution upon such
judgment or determination, unless the party applying for such
allowed to T™' °^ error' or some responsible person for him, shall within
ond.
three months from the date of such judgment or determination.
Time
.execute a bond to the adverse party in double the amount of the
ecute bond.
execute a bondtothe
in ,i sureties
judgment
complainedadverse
of, withparty
sufficient
^ ~—*
onroHes to be approved
rl8U n
k' Conditioned for the payment of such judgment
ÍÍTT5
A n u j°Sts thnt may be Ridged, in case such writ of error
snail be dismissed or the judgment or determination of the dis
A"p**altrict court affirmed.
fbfeíioS I™ 8?b,fV»«i »nd omitid. |
I oecuon
executed.]
f?
' ¿1W
' obsolete,
ExcePtion
to the decision of the court upon any
Exceptions, how to matter of law arising during the progress of the cause, or to
be taken.
Wie giving or refusing of instructions, must be taken at the
time of such decision. In equity causes no exception shall be
Id. ) 5.
required.
■
1
Bills °f exception must be settled and signed with
in thirty days after the judgment is entered, unless the court
Bill»
ol
exception,
to
be settled, when.
M- 5 *•
or iudge shall enlarge the time.
J Wafner ve. Eaton, vol. 2, pamai. N. M. Rep.
U. B§. vs. Watts,
vol. 1, page
M. Rep
pap' 1,553,pageN. MS,
V",.
R
,
Rosenthal
vs. Ohisnm,
vol.
N. H. Kep,
llV the
Hereafter no writ of error shall be allowed
"' UmU»* toSinSi supreme
§ 2 1 99.court
Hereafter
no
writ
o
i
m
,
of this Territory, except within one year alter
the rendition of the judgment, on which said writ of error is
based; and that said supreme court shall make rules for the
government of the practice in writs of error in common taw
»¿P
¡¡I fases, which said rules shall not conflict with any of the taws
in force in this Territory.
ISection 2300 substituted and omitted.J

1034—§ 2201]
TOSrt,Ctóri¿i¡i-iiited.er

§ 2201. Appellants and plaintifffs in error in any criminal
case removed into the supreme court of the Territory for re
view shall not be required to print the record, nor any part
thereof ; and in civil cases removed into said supreme court for
review, appellants or plaintifffs in error shall not be required to
print the record nor any part thereof, unless the amount of the
l. 1884, ch«P. 7, si; judgment to be reviewed or the value of the property in dis1
pute shall exceed one thousand dollars, exclusive of costs.

CHAPTER XVII.
COSTS.
Section.
Sbotion.
Witness
fees,
limit
of
^
Costs, who shall recover
2202
books," how to be kept
Actions for debt or contract
2208 "Cost
Copy
of
costs,
clerk
to
make:
delivery
^
Costs on appeal, to be adjudged how
2204 Transcript of costs, effect of
■■•
Appeal from judgment in favor of appellant — 2205 Officer claiming exorbitant fees, penalty; eos», ^
Appeal in civil suite
2208 retaxing of
Estate to pay, when
Z&Tt
Plaintiff to pay costs, when
2208
COSTS.
§ 2202. For all civil actions or proceedings of any kind,
who shaU re* the party prevailing shall recover his costs against the
Costs
cover.
other party, except in those cases in which a different provision
L. 1886,
chap. «,
1 1;C. Sept.
22, 18*6.
is made
by law.
§ 2203.
In all actions founded on debt or other contract
Aotions for debt or if the plaintifff recover an amount which, exclusive of interest,
contract.
is below the jurisdiction of the court, he shall recover judg
ment therein, but the costs shall be adjudged against him un
less the plaintifff's claim, as established on the trial, shall be re
Id. i 2.
duced by off-sets below the jurisdiction of the court
§ 2204. When an appeal shall be taken from the judg
on appeal,
beCosts
adjudged,
how. to ment of a probate court or justice of the peace against the ap
pellant,
the costs
be adjudged
as follows:
First—If
the shall
judgment
be affirmed,
or the appellee on a
trial anew shall recover as much or more than the amount of
the judgment below, the appellant shall pay costs in both
Second—If, on such trial, the judgment of the appellate
courts.
court shall be in favor of the appellant, the appellee shall pay
Third—It
the appellant shall, at any time before the appeal
costs
in both courts.
is perfected, tender to the appellee anv part of the judgment
and he shall not accept it in satisfaction, and the appellee shall
not recover more than the amount as tendered, he shall pay

PROCEDURE CIVIL.
1036—§ 2205 j
o. l. le», ohap. 45, ! costs in the appellate court, but not in the court below, he shall
8; Bept. 22, 1816.
i. in
• l_both
it. courts.
i
recover costs
Martinez vs. Lucero, vol. 1, page 208, N. M. Rep.
Appeal from ludg- § 2205. If such appeal be from a judgment in favor of
ment
. ü appellant, costs shall\rbe adjudged
. _ _ as follows
* ° : T.
,,
peii^t.In favor of ap- the
If upon the
trial anew, the appellant shall not recover more than the judg
ment below, he shall pay the costs of the appellate court If
he recover nothing, the costs shall be adjudged against him in
id. ¡ 4.
both courts. If he recover more than the judgment below, he
shall recover costs in both courts.
Appeal in oivu suit.. § 2206. In case of appeal in civil suits, if the judgment of
the appellate court be against the appellant, it shall be ren1
dered against him and his securities in the appeal bond.
§ 2207. When any demand shall be presented to the pro
to pay when. bate court for allowance against the estate of any decedent, if
id. ¡ e.
the demand be allowed, the estate shall pay the costs; if dis• • allowed, the party presenting the demand shall pay the costs.
cofii°¿Se'n" 10 w
2208. If
any person
person comuieuuo
commence aa suit
in the district
§ 220b.
if any
a
court against an estate, within
from the date of
• twelve
■ -1 months trn
the administration, he may recover judgment but shall pay all
Id. t 7.
costs.
Um"
§ 2209. Hereafter it shall not be legal in any civil suit for
Witness fees,
the clerk of any district court to tax in favor of the prevailing
of.
party the costs of more than four witnesses, unless the court
shall certify upon the record that the attendance of more than
Id. ¡ 16.
four witnesses was necessary in the case.
toooepí00""'" how . § 2210. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the various
district courts to provide suitable bound books to be kept in
their respective offices, and to be called "Cost Books," in which
it shall be the duty of said clerks, at the conclusion of the term
of court, to enter the names of the parties to the suits and the
nature of the causes in which coste have accrued, or have been
adjudged or taxed during the term, together with each item of
the same and the name of the officer who performed the service:
and the nature and quantity and amount of costs so accrued
shall at all times be open for the examination of any pers011
Id. ! W.
mSe-'dSTv^11 interested
§ 2211.therein.
When final judgment or decree shall be renderCopy of cost", olera ed in any cause, and execution shall be issued thereon, the
clerk shall make a complete copy of all the costs taxed against
the defendant in execution, under his hand and the seal of the
court, together with a certificate that the said bill of costs is
correct. The said bill of costs shall be delivered to the officer
to whom the execution shall be directed for execution, andJ*4"
the writ shall be served, the officer shall deliver the said biU or

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XVIII.

1038—§ 2122 J
costs to the defendant in execution, and shall receipt the same
C. L. 1865, chap. 45, i when paid ; and the said clerk shall be entitled to fifty cents for
18; Sept. 22, 1846.
such copy, to be paid as other costs.
§ 221 2. In every cause in which either party shall become
Transcript of costa, liable to pay costs, the clerk may make out a transcript from
effect of.
the cost book as above directed, and the same shall have in all
respects the force and effect of an execution, and shall be served,
Id. 5 19collected and returned in the same manner.
§ 2213.» Any officer who shall knowingly claim for his
Offlcer fees;
claiming
ex services in any cause in the district court higher fees than pro
orbitant
penalty.
vided by law, or shall claim fees for services not rendered, shall
be liable to the party against whom such fraudulent charge is
made in three times the amount of such charge, provided that
the same has been paid by the party; and, when such payment
has been made, the party against whom the charge has been
made may petition the court to retax the costs, and if the court
Costs, retaxiug of. shall find that fraudulent charges have been made and paid, it
shall adjudge the officer in fault to pay to the party injured
three times the amount of the charges, and enforce the collec
Id. 5 20.
tion of the same by means of an execution as in other cases.

CHAPTER XVIII.
CONCERNING REAL ESTATE.
Beotion Costó; decree, how to be rendered
j _j
• ....
Action to quiet title, who may bring
2214 Actions in chancery
"
Bill of complaint to set forth, what; parties de
Mines deemed real estate
fendant
2215
ESTATES OK DECEASED PERSONS.
court to appoint when.
'
Administration in absence of claimants
22W Guardian,
Person interested may answer, when..
Sale of effect*, when; notice; return
8230 Hearing, procedure on
Debt* paid from effects, when
2221 Order to specify, what; mortgage l'"Dl"taken.
Proceeds to be turned into treasury; record
2222 when
* ■"*_*
Claims, collection of; administration; money to
Order to mortgage; Bpecilficatione.-.
be delivered, when: pro rata payment; prefer
Order to lease; specifications
red claims
2223
of eale, as an alternative
Money unclaimed one year belongs to county — 2224 Order
Hales, to
Order
howbetocited;
be made
conveyance to be approved. .
Accounts to be presented, when; actions, limita
tion of
2225 Sales, reports of, how to be made
Hales valid, when; survivors may sell, when
2226
after approval
Administrator may sell and convey, when
2227 Conveyance
void ifhow
not toapproved
Proceeds,
be administered
Real estate may be sold, when
222H Sale
Petition, substance of; defendants, who are
Payments to be completed, when
made
2229 Real estate, how to be disposed of
Summons to issue upon filing
2230 Probst*1 court may direct relinquishment
2231
Summons returnable when
2232 Procedure
Summons in each county, when
' »"»*"%ZZ¡¿^
if executor
or
2233 Mortgagee
Summons, service of
release, when
223 1 Terms usedmay
Notice by publication, when
in act d'>nned-„fn6e t„ ,ct.
223.-. Procedure when
Cause continued, when
executors refu" <»
Procedure, form of

s16
^
jnl
■:<- ■>'
.¿¡¡j
jjjj
22,0
®41
JJJfi
JJJ
"*V
™

1040—§ 2214]

PROCEDURE OITIL.

[TIT. XXXÍII, CH. XVIII.

CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY.
§ 2 2 1 4. An action to determine and quiet the title of real
property may be brought by any one having or claiming an inl. im, chap, e, j i; terest therein, whether in or out of possession of the same,
A|'"'
against any person claiming title thereto.

»hoc,S,'btf' UUe'

§ 221 5. The plaintifff must file his bill of complaint in the
Bill of complaint to district court, setting forth the nature and extent of his estate,
set forth, what.
and describing the premises as accurately as may be, and aver
ring that he is credibly informed and believes that the defend
ant makes some claim adverse to the estate of the plaintifff, and
praying for the establishment of the plaintifff's estate against
such adverse claims, and that the defendant be barred and for
ever estopped from having or claiming any right or title to the
premises adverse to the plaintifff, and plaintifff's title thereto be
forever quieted and set at rest. Any or all persons whom the
plaintifff alleges in his bill of complaint he is informed and be
lieves make claim adverse to the estate of plaintifff, the unknown
heirs of any deceased person whom plaintifff alleges in his bill
of complaint in his lifetime made claim adverse to the estate of
plaintifff, and all unknown persons who may claim any interest
Partí», defend- or *itle adverse to plaintifff, may be made parties defendants to
ant; name and rt»ie. said bill of complaint by their names, as near as the same can
be ascertained, such unknown heirs by the style of unknown
heirs of such deceased person, and said unknown persons who
may claim any interest or title adverse to plaintifff by the name
and style of unknown claimants of interests in the premises
adverse to the plaintifff, and service of process on, and notice of
Proceea, how tobe said suit against defendants, shall be made in the same man
served.
—Id. ¡ '2.
ner as now provided by law in other civil suits.
§2216. If the defendant, or any of them, shall appear and
disclaim all right and title adverse to the plaintifff, he shall re
cover his costs, and in all other cases the costs shall be in the
discretion of the court. If the defendant or any one of them
fails to appear and answer, the court may render decree against
. how to be such defendant so failing to appear in accordance with the
prayer of the bill of complaint, or such other decree in the
premises as to the court shall appear meet and proper.
§ 221 7. The action contemplated by this act shall be cou
Actions In chancery. nted as other actions by equitable'proceedings on the chauducted as <
"Id. 5 4.
eery side of the court
§ 2218. For thepurposesof this>«*,,a¿^"¡¡T'
Miiiep deemed real les,
mines shall be deemed and taken to be real
eBlate.
~~íd. ¡ s.
poses,

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[WT. "XHI, OH. XVIII.

1042—§ 2219 J
ESTATES OF DECEASED PERSONS.
§ 2219. When any person shall die within the limits of
absence of claimants. any county of the Territory of New Mexico, having in said
county, or in any other county of said Territory, any effects
or property belonging to such deceased, the probate judge of
the county where such person may have died, when he shall
know of his own knowledge or be informed that such effects or
property are abandoned, and that there is no heir to take charge
of the same, or that no person has made application for letters
of administration, and that no person desires to administer on
said estate, he shall order the sheriff of his county to take pos
session of such effects or property, and keep the same in his
custody and care, and to make out and return an inventory of
chap. as, ¡i; each and all articles thereof, which inventory shall be recorded
anu au muuto mj
L.Saie1866,
~~... t eacn
1 ' COUrt
—-* 118
»« iD
«•> My
otiv °th6r
other C88ecase.
& O8 derk °f
Pr0bate
Jan.
26. 01Tr.
hen! 0 ' eclB' $ 2220. When the probate judge shall have ordered the
enects or property to be taken possession of as required in the
cases referred to in the foregoing section, after the expiration
oi tnirty days from the date of such order, if no person shall
appear who desires or shall make application for letters of administration upon such estate or property, he shall order the
sneritt who shall have taken charge of such effects, to sell the
same at public auction, and said sheriff shall execute said order
by giving ten days public notice of such sale, stating therein
the articles to be sold, and the time and place of sale; and such
Notice.
steritt shall make a return, under oath, setting forth therein
the full sum realized from said sale, which report shall be re
sale as near to the inventory of such effects as may be P*"
Id. 5 2.
§ 2221. The probate judge may approve, and order to be
Debeffects,
t s to when.
be paid paid, all just debts owed by the estate of such deceased person,
from
mentioned in section 2219: Provided, that such debts be due
from said estates for services, expenses and costs accruing and
made after the death of such deceased; and the sheriff shall be
allowed and paid a just and equitable compensation for his
services and responsibility for taking possession and charge of
Id. 5 3.
and selling the effects of such deceased persons.
§ 2222. After the payment of all the accounts approved by
tiie probate judge, as provided in the foregoing section, the
Proceeds
to
be
turn
ed Into treasury.
residue shall be turned over by the sheriff to the treasurer of
his county, who shall receipt in duplicate in favor of the sheriff
or the sum he may have so received, one of which shall be reRecord
flal"ed hy the she»ff for his security, and the other shall be
Wed with the clerk of the probate court, who shall record the
same immediately following the return of the sale made by the
sheriff, and such treasurer and his official bond shall he held
responsible for the sums that may have been so received by
Id. { 1.
him.

1044—§ 2223]
cinime. collection of.

§ 2223. If any person or persons should have any claim or
claims against the estates of deceased persons as above stated,
and the same shall have been incurred or caused by said de
ceased during his lifetime, such person or persons, in order to
collect said claim, shall first petition the probate court to grant
Administration.
them letters of administration upon said estate, who shall first
enter into bond and take an oath to faithfully discharge his du
ties as such administrator, which shall have the same effect as
in other cases, and the treasurer who shall have in his pos
session the money of the estate, on the letters of administra
tion being presented to him, shall deliver to said administrator
Money to be deliver- the money belonging to such estate, and shall take receipts in
duplicate for such sum, one of which shall be filed with the
ed, when
clerk of the probate court; said administrator shall remain as
pro rat* payment, such for one year, and at the expiration thereof shall pay rjito
rata on all accounts approved by the probate judge that may
have been owed by such deceased during his lifetime, unless
preferred claims. there should be sufficient to pay all such accounts in full: but
it shall be the duty of such administrator to pay immediately
,^*ap. 23,
»■ suou »v
L. lS66fchap.
23, 15 5;5 all
preferred claims allowed by the probate judge.
Jan. 06. ™
™> °y<£f Mons?*to . §, 2224. Whenever there shall be any money in the bands
of the county treasurer, as provided in this act. if no application shall be made by any person to administer upon said es
tate as herein already provided in the foregoing section, after
the expiration of one year after such treasurer shall have re
ceived the same, then and in such case such money shall belong
to the county where the same shall be deposited, and all claims
ProTtao
P e.snme sha11 be proscribed and rejected by all courts:
Provided, that this act shall extend to all existing cases wherein
id. f e.
- the estates of deceased persons may be abandoned, and which
estates are not in the custody of any person.
rented,
.hen.to be pre--J/ $ OOO*
SJ.¿í). All
who now hold, or may hereafter hold.
Accounts
in persons
accounts or claims
against the estate of deceased persons, shall
<^«<^r
present the same for settlement to the proper person, and the
same either shall be settled or proceeding begun thereon
within one year from the date of the death of the deceased, and
no action at law or in equity shall be sustained in any of the
courts of this Territory against the estates of the deceased
persons which shall not have been commenced by proper proAction, limitation 06 a
f°r 016 enforcement of the collection of open accounts
*
ai?cij unsettled claims against the estates of deceased persons.
¿ Mi, ou»p.l,»I¡ Wlth,n two years after the date of the death of such person or
M-valid when
Halec

persons.
i cases where power is or may be given
•
SS ~-¿<). TIn all
m
any will to sell or dispose of any real estate, or any interest
therein, and the same be sold or disposed of in the manner and
by the persons appointed in such will, the sales shall be good

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

I TIT. XXXIII, CH. XVIII.

1046—§ 2227 j
™ mw
and valid; and when one or more executors AdMgri, to» Mfe
=^a_EiOT: before such sale be
be made, the
tne survivor
«uiviv or ^^ aB
the same power, and their sales shall be good and valid, as
April 2.
though they all joined in such sale.
§ 2227. Whenever any testator shall, by his last will, di
may rect that his real estate, or any of it be sold, or otherwise dis
pellAdministrator
and convey, when
posed of. for the payment of his debts, or for any other purpose,
and no executor be named therein ; or if the executor named
therein refuse such office, or be removed or die, the administra
tor with the will annexed, or de bonis non, may sell, convey,
and dispose of such real estate in accordance with the provisions
"ToTs 2.
of such will.
§ 2228. Whenever after inventory and appraisement there
Real estate muy be in, as herein provided, it shall appear that the personal estate
cold, when.
of auy decedent is insufficient to discharge the just debts allow
ed against his or her estate and the legacies charged thereon,
resort may be had to the real estate, and the same maybe sold,
mortgaged, or leased by the executor or administrator in cases
where power to that end is contained in the will, or otherwise
Td. § ;
upon the order of the court as follows, to-wit:
$5 222Í). The executor or administrator shall present to
Petition, substance the district court of the county, in which letters testamentary
or administration were issued, his petition, setting forth the
amount and value of the personal estate according to the inven
tory and appraisement thereof, and if sale has been made of
such personal estate, the amount received from such sale, the
amount of debts and claims allowed against the estate, and the
amount still existing and not allowed, so far as the same may
be known, the amount of legacies, if any, for the payment of
which resort must be had to the real estate, and describing
particularly the whole of the real estate whereof the decedent
died seized, or in or to which he or she. at the time of his or
her decease had any interest, claim, or right, the nature of his
or her claim, right, or title, the nature and value of the several
parcels of such real estate respectively, and if the same or any
thereof is encumbered, the nature and amount of such encum
brance, and pray the aid of the court in the premises. To such
petition the widow or husband, and heir-at-law of such decedeDt.
petition the widow
and he^^»
Qr any thereof
thereo
• ~*or husband,
*Aal estate,
if the same or
and the devisees of such real eetete, if ttw
¡a)is of
0{
Defendants, who are be devised in the will of the decedent and^
to be made.
such of them as may be minors, shall be marte
Id. S 4.
8 22 30. Upon the filing of such petition a «j^J^ u
Summon*
namert^ ^ appear ,nnd
inst the defendants therein >mu■
upon
tiling. t o Issue issue against
the
county,
requiring
the
h BaBUno».
sheriff of e ui«
uuuuwj,
* the
——0
oetition
upon
return clay
daj 'of euon
Id. S 5.
answer the petition
upon
the return

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XVIII.

1048—§ 2231 J
8 22 31 . Every such summons shall be made returnable on
b retu rn- theVrst day of the term of the court next succeeding the date
able, when.
hereof, uJess the first day of such next term be more ban fifty
days after the date of such summon^^ » —
April 2.
ghall be returnable fifty days after the date oi sum
§ 2232. If there are several defendants residing in differ
.^u.m... ¡ in each ent counties, a summons shall issue to each of such counties.
county, when.
:id. § 7.
§ 2233. Service of such summons shall be by reading or
Summons, service delivering a copy thereof to each of the defendants therein
of.
named; in the case of minor defendants, services of summons
may be made upon the legally appointed guardian of such
minor, or if there be none, then upon the father or mother of
such minor if either be living, and if there be no legally ap
pointed guardian of such minor and neither the father or
Id. 5 «.
mother be living then upon sucli minor defendant
§ 2234. If the executor or administrator shall file with the
Notice by pnblloa- clerk of such district court an affidavit that any defendant re
sides or has gone out of the Territory, or cannot be found, so
that process cannot be served upon him, such clerk shall cause
to be published for four weeks successively in some daily or
weekly newspaper printed within the county wherein the peti
tion is pending, or if there be no newspaper printed within
such county, then in some newspaper printed in the Territory,
a notice to such defendant of the filing of such petition, the
time at which the writ is returnable, or if such publication be
made after the return day of the writ, the time to which such
petition is continued, and requiring such defendant to appear
and answer the petition on such return day, or on such day to
which the petition is continued; but such affidavit and notice
shall not dispense with the issuing of summons or the usual
Id. ! S.
effort to make service thereof.
oed, when.
S ¿¿,6.3. If such summons be not served at least five days
Cause to I» contin- before the return
Tl
, thereof, or if in case where notice
* 3 by
day
publication is permitted by the last preceding section, the first
publication of such notice be not at least thirty davs before the
s appearance, the cause
day named
therein forto the
-—.
8hn11
starifl continued
suchdefendant'
time as may be fixed by the court
"r tLe judge thereof; alias summons may issue, from time to
••"tenure, form of.
-~
f

time, as to^any defendant'not served,
§ 2236. The form of proceeding upon such petition shall
conform to the proceedings of courts of chancery, and the issue
shall be formed, heard, and determined, as proceedings in
. onancery: Provided, that no defendant shall be allowed to put
- m issue the decedent's title or interest to or in the lands named
in the petition.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

f «M. XXXIII, CH. XVIII.

1050—§ 2237 I
ou»rdiiui court to § 2237. If it shall appear that any defendant is a minor,
uppoint, when.
.
i*
. such'
andü lias no guardian
resident
m this* _
Territory, or if
guardian, if any, fail or refuse to appear to resist such petition,
l. isa, chip. 29, ¡ i2; the court shall appoint a guardian ad liiem to such minor, to
Ap 1
appear in his or her behalf, and resist such petition,
person interested 8 2238. Any person interested in the estate as a creditor
may answer.
, and* not
*■ made defendant, may appear and1 answer
or *^otherwise,
—Id } u
such petition, and show cause against the prayer thereof at any
time before final decree.
§ 2239. Upon the hearing of the cause, upon the issue or
Hearing; procedure. issues formed, or where the petition may be taken for confessed,
it shall be the duty of the court to hear proofs touching the
matters alleged in the petition or in issue by the pleadings
subsequent thereto; and if by such proofs it shall appear that
the personal estate will be insufficient to discharge the just
debts and claims allowed against the estate and the legacies
charged thereon, and expenses of administration, the court
shall determine, as nearly as may be, the amount of such de
ficiency, and may thereupon direct that the real estate, or such
portion thereof as may be necessary, be sold or leased by the
executor or administrator, or that the executor or administra
tor raise money for the discharge of such debts and legacies
by mortgage, of all or any part of such real estate or that any
part of such real estate be sold, and the residue, or any thereof,
be either mortgaged or leased, according as may seem most for
the interest of all persons interested in the estate, due regard
Id. i H.
being had to the rights of all.
§ 224-0. If the court shall direct a sale of such real estate
Order to specify or any part thereof, the order shall specify the part to be sold,
what.
and whether such sale shall be for cash or upon credit, and if
upon credit the length thereof, and the rate of interest to be
paid
paid by
by the
the purchaser
purchaser pending
pending the
the same
same;; if
if any
any such
sucu sale be
upon credit, the executor or administrator shall, before the deelivery of a conveyance, take from the purchaser or purchasers
of the
sold, to
the
of
takén 'when8* to be aa•' mortgage
mortgage
the premises
premises
to secure
securethe
the due
due payment
]
■ ■ ■ '•■■ -of™->„Q„
nnlpss sold,
the
_
the purchase
money, unless
the order
order of
of the court
court direct that
'
other security be in lieu thereof.
§ 2241. If the court shall direct that the executor orjlministrator raise money by mortgage on any of the real es
Order
to
mortgage
specifications.
the order shall specify the part to be mortgaged, a rate M|
Tarns
terest not exceeding which, and a period for not less than
ttní

,pesuch loan shall be made.
, .
§ "^2. If the court shall direct the executor or «f"^
trator to lease the real estate, or any part thereof, we
shall specify the part to be leased, for what length of.tim ,
upon what rents and conditions the lease may be made.

1052—§ 2243 J
l. i«8t,chiip.29,¡ i7; vided, that no such lease shall be made for a term exceeding
April 2.
r* years.
°
five
»iS™rtive'.Ml<! ™ § 2243. The court may direct in the alternative, that if the
executor or administrator cannot upon mortgage of real estate,
borrow the sum of money necessary at a rate of interest, and
for a length of time to be named, or cannot lease the same at
id. { is. ■
"~ the rents and upon the conditions named, that then a sale
thereof, or any part thereof, shall be made, specifying the part.
• lei, how to be g 224-4. Every sale of real estate of any decedent, in pur
suance of this act. shall be made at such place and upon such
made
notice as the court may direct, not less than twenty days, and
every such sale shall be at public auction, unless in the opinion
of the court it would benefit the estate of the deceased to sell
the whole or any part of such real estate at private sale; in
which case the court, if the same is asked for in the petition
may order such real estate or any part thereof to be thus sold
by the executor or administrator, but such order of sale shall
not be granted until such executor or administrator shall have
made and returned into court an inventory of such real estate,
and caused the" same to be appraised in the manner, as near as
practicable, now prescribed for the appraisement of real estate
levied upon by execution, and such appraisement returned into
court, nor shall such executor or administrator become the pur
Id. { 19.
chaser.
er.
2245. In every such case the conveyance, mortgage, or
Order to be cited. lease,i- bv
the executor
executor or
shall w«»
recite in" subby the
or administrator,
administrator, shall
m.nM
stance the order of the court; and every su h■ conveja
-tgage, or lease, made in conformity with the order^of
court shall have the same effect to convey, encumber, and de
mise the estate which the decedent, in his or her lifetime had in
conve„be.p. K Pfo™- 88 if m«tfe by such decedent in his or her lifetime:
proved.
P- out no nnal conveyance of any estate so sold shall be made
id. ¡ sr.
until approval of the proceedings of the executor or administra
ho,
to be made.
Sales,
report!? of•

tor by the court, as hereinafter mentioned.
Within
is§-¿*u.
9 9 A (* tir-Ai
■ ten days or as soon thereafter as practicaWe succeeding any such sale, mortgage, or leasing, the execu
tor or administrator shall present to the court or judge thereof
n report of his proceedings in the premises, accompanying such
report in case a sale has been made with the advertisement
Í - « ' nnd Proof of the publication of the same, and also with
His affidavit that he did not directly or indirectly purchase any
I "t of the real estate sold, and has no interest, direct or indi

rect, in any such purchase.
^
§ 2247. If such report be approved by tbe ^Uhis° conveyConveyance
a.,
v.
^
^«-ri.
j
>
.Ju~~
t
,
,
approv.1.
thereof, the executor or administrator shall exec
, ase).s. 11S
ance of the premises sold to the purchaser or I
Id. 5 22.
hereinbefore provided.

FHOCEDURE CIVIL.

I TIT. XXXIII, OH. XVIII.

1054—§ 2248]
provldTOld i",0,
§ 2248. If such report of sale be not approved the sale
•L.ia»,ch.,p.!S,§3- SJl1a" "f, vold aml the court or judge thereof may order a reApr" 2.
' sale ot the same premises.
»omiS?,ed!,w ,0 *" . §2249. All monies arising from any such sale, mortgag.
mg or leasing of the real estate shall be assets in the hands of
the executor or administrator for the payment of debts and
.
legacies and shall be administered under the direction of the
id. ! m.
probate court, in the same manner as monies arising from the
sale of personal property. pi«*™Shmtob<'com" § 2 2 50. ' If any decedent shall, before his death, have pur
chased real estate, and shall die, before completing the payment
thereof, intestate, or without devising the same or provid
ing by will for the payment of the purchase money thereon
aue, or to accrue, and the completion of such payment would
be beneficial to the heirs or legatees of the deceased and not
injurious to creditors, the executor or administrator may, with
Id s atIle approval of the probate court, complete such payment out
of the proceeds of the personal estate.
b.XSaS.'"" t0 § 2251. Such real estate shall, whether payment thereof
_a__
_ be made from the personal estate or not, be disposed of in the
same manner as other real estate.
S 2252.* The probate court may in such case if it should
seem most advantageous to the persons interested in the estate
direct that the executor or administrator relinquish the interest
and estate of the deceased, upon such terms, as he may, with
the approval of the probate court, agree upon, and such relin
quishment when made shall be as valid as if made by the de
" III. i 27.
( .
cedent in his lifetime.
§ 2253. If any decedent shall have left lands encumbered
Laud*,
court may by mortgage, judgment, execution, sale or other lien, and shall
order
redeemed.
not have devised the same or provided by will for the redemp
tion thereof, the probate court shall have power, if it shall ap
pear to be for the interest of the heirs, legatees, and creditors,
to order the executor or administrator to redeem the same out
of the proceeds of the personal estate, or the district court upon
petition, as provided by sections 2228 to 2245, may direct
Id. i 28.
that other lands be sold to redeem the same,
tor or 'SinwiS § 2254. When any executor or administrator shall remove
from this Territory, or resign or die. before completing any
proceedings commenced under the provisions of this act. after
dice.
the sale of any real estate of his testator or intestate in pur
suance hereof, and before executing a deed thereof, or after an
order for the sale, mortgage, or leasing of any such real estate
has been made in pursuance hereof, and before the full execu
tion of such order, the district court or judge thereof may di
rect that the survivor or successor of such executor or admimsdrfeSreUnqSSLnmt!

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XIX.

1050—§ 2255]
TjnijMEp^TS; trator shall complete such proceedings, execute such convey
ance, mortgage, or lease, or complete the execution of sncli
order, and the resignation or death of any or all of such executes
or administrators or the death of any one or more of the de
fendants shall not abate the proceedings, but they shall proceed
against the surviving defendants and the legal representatives
and heirs of such defendants.
§ 2255. When the mortgagee of any land or tenements
Morttragee may re shall die leaving minor heirs, the executors or administrators
lease, when.
of such mortgagee shall be and are hereby authorized, on re
ceiving the amount due the estate of such deceased mortgagee,
to release to the mortgagor the legal title of the said mortgaged
Id. S 3».
premises* and such deed of release shall be valid.
§ 2256. Wherever in this act the district court or the judge
Terms used In act, thereof is referred to it shall mean and be construed to mean
defined .
the district court in a regular term or the judge thereof sitting
at chambers anywhere in the district, and the acts of said judge
sitting at chambers anywhere in his district shall be made a
matter of record in the record of the district court for the county
in which the proceedings shall be commenced, and his said acts
as such, at chambers, shall have the same force and effect as if
done at a regular term in the county in which proceedings may
be pending, and shall not for that reason be held or deemed
Id. 5 31invalid.
§ 2257. In case all the executors or administrators of any
Procedure
when
ex
ecutorw refuBe to act. will or estate shall refuse to commence and carry on the pro
ceedings authorized by this act in any proper case, when there
may be more than one executor or administrator, any one or
more of them may commence and carry on the same, making
the remaining executors or administrators parties defendants,
and alleging the fact that they refuse to join as complainants,
and in case none of the executors or administrators will com
mence and carry on said proceedings in any proper case, any
one or more of the creditors whose claim may have been allowed
properly in the probate court may do, by complying as near
as may be with the terms of this act and by making such ad
ministrators or executors parties defendant, and alleging the
fact of their refusal to commence the proceedings or carry
Id. i 32.
them on.

CHAPTER XIX.

Ejectment maintainable, when
Ejectment (or recovery win lie, when

EJECTMENTS.
Section
2258. Action, how to be prosecuted .
2258-A Defendant, who W ta' m

gICTtO*

i058-§ 2258]

procedure Oivit^^^^^
8ECTI0S.
Writ to issue
—^ Execution
Improvements and profits to be proven, when . . . 2269
2270
■an Verdict for plaintifff, how to be found; defendant's
rights
Plaintiff may elect
2272
Rule applies to equity suits
22*'

Section.
Petition, sufficiency of
Defendant's plea and testimony
Possession, right to
Ouster to be proven
Damages, limitation of
Title, expiration of
Judgment, form of

EJECTMENTS.
Ejectment.
§ 2258. The action of ejectment may be maintained in all
~c. i.. law, chap. 33, cases where the plaintifff is legally entitled to the possession of
¡ 1 ; Dec. 1847.
.i
•
A
°
the
file premises.
ulGlllloon.
§ 2258-A. An action of ejectment will He for the recova?
Ejectment for re of the possession of a mining clam, as well
**g
covery will lie
estate, where the party suing has been wrongft^ ouetedtro
1.. 18Íf>, chap, i
the possession thereof, and the possession wrongful^ tieta
Jan. 11.
8 2259. The action shall be prosecuted in theMred n»m«
of the parties, and shall be brought agamst the tenant m pos
Action,
he
prosecuted.
c. l. iH6i>, chap. :b, s gession
ssion.
§ 2260. Any person claiming such premises may, on moa. Defendant.
Dec. 1B17.
7Hrr5

iaon,
be made
defendant.
§ 2261
. Ita shall
be sufficient for the plaintifff to declare in
his petition that on some day in such petition named he was
Petition, sufficiency entitled to the possession of the premises, describing them; ami
of.
that the defendant, on a day named in the petition, afterwards
entered into such premises, and unlawfully withheld from the
plaintifff the possession thereof, to his damage, for any sum he
TuTs 4.
»p.
Defendí . te8t,mon),■

■

may
ay name.
„ má iul(ier
§ 2262. The defendant may pleadI not gmlty, ^ ^
fl
ich plea
give
testimony
s thes title is¡g mi
such
in evidence
tesuuiunplea
giveentitled
plaintifff
is not
to suchany
possession,
or that

id. } 5.
some
other person.
§ 2263.
It shall be sufficient to entitle the plaintifff to recover
to show that at the time of the commencement of the
possession, right to.
action the defendant was in possession of the premises claiawi,
Id. 5 B.
" and that the plaintifff had a right to the possession thereof,
ouster to t» proven. § 2264. In any action brought by a joint tenant, or tenant
' Id. ¡ 7.
in common, against a co-tenant, he shall be required to pro
an
or plaintifff
act equivalent
thereto.
in §actual
„„-,.
, recoverfor damages
2 2 6 5.ouster
If the
prevail,
he
shall
••
■ such
-1—1 premises
the
value
of
the
rents
and
profits
of
to the time
Damages, limitation
of the verdict or the expiration of the plaintifff's title, under
of.
Firsi—It
the defendant had knowledge of the plaintifff's
these
limitations:
claim or title, then for the whole time he had such knowledge.
Second—If ]le had no such knowledge, then from the com
Id. } 8.
mencement of the action.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XIX.

1060—§ 2266 1
Title, expire of.

§ 2266. If the plaintifff's title expire after the action is
brought, but before its determination, the verdict and judgment
L. 1865,
¡9;C.d«.
is". chap. 33, shall be for damages and costs only.
judRment, form of. § 2267. If the plaintifff prevail, the judgment shall be for
"id. ! 10.
the recovery of the possession, and for the damages and costs.
Montoya vb. Donohoe, vol. 2. page 214, N. M. Rep.
§ 2268. Upon judgment for the recovery of possession, a
Writ to iBsae.
writ of possession shall be issued, and the sheriff shall deliver
to the plaintifff the possession of the premises, and also collect
Id. 5 11.
the damages and costs, as on execution in other cases.
Romero vh. Muñón, vol. 1, page 314, N. M. Hep.
§ 226 !(. If the judgment be for damages and costs, an ex
Execution.
ecution shall issue as in personal action.
Id. 5 12. ~
§ 2270. Hereafter in all actions of ejectment which are
Improvements
and
now
pending or which may hereafter be brought, when the de
profits to be proven, fendant
or tenant in possession in such suit shall have title of
when.
the premises in dispute either by grant from the governments
of Spain, Mexico or the United States, deed of conveyance
founded on a grant or entry for the same, such defendant or
defendants may file at the time of the filing of the pleas in said
cause, a notice to the plaintifff, that on the trial of said cause,
he or they will prove what improvements he or they may have
made on the said lands in dispute and the value thereof. After
which notice being filed, the said plaintifff may at the same
time, file a motion to the said defendant or defendants or tenant
in possession, that in like manner he or they will prove the
amount of the mesne profits of the said premises: ProniW.
that no improvements shall be taken into valuation and allowed
Provino.
for, that shall have been made after the execution of the origi
nal summons in such suit or after the plaintifff, his agent or at
torney shall have served said defendant or tenant in possession
with a written notice that he or they claim title to the land
specifying in said notice the nature of the claim; nor shall any
mesne profits be valued and recovered except such as may li»ve
accrued after the commencement of the suit, or notice given as
C.
L.
1S66,
chao.
33,
u,y
S 13; Feb. 3, 1858. Tr. atoresaid.
«*
.j
Pino vs. Hatch, vol. 1, poRC 125, N. M. Rep
how ,o be toraSdaIn"ff§ 2271. When the jury shall find a verdict for the plain
tiff m such action, they shall also find the value of the improve
ments in favor of the defendant or tenant in possession, proved
in the manner aforesaid, and further shall find the amount of
the mesne profits proved to have accrued as aforesaid, as also
the value of the land in its natural state without the improve
ments, and if the value of the improvements should exceed

PKOCEDURE CIVIL.

[«T. SXX1II, CH. XX.

10(52—§ 2272J
amount of the mesne profits, the balance or overplus thereof
Defendant's rights. shall be found by the jury in favor of the defendant or tenant
in possession, and such plaintifff or plaintifffs shall not have a
writ of possession awarded or issued against the defendant or
defendants until he or they shall have paid to the said defend
ant or defendants, their agent or attorney the full amount of
the balance or overplus, which the value of the improvements
is found to exceed the mesne profits as aforesaid. And if the
mesne profits as aforesaid, shall exceed the value of the im
provements, as aforesaid, the jury aforesaid shall find the
amount of such balance or overplus against the defendant or
tenant in possession and judgment shall be entered up against
u%tb Tw^'if'1 Salcl c,efencla"t or tenant in possession for such balance or over
plaintifff majr elect.

Id- « K

plus so found against them,
§ •> 2 7 2. If upon the rendition of any judgment in any such
suit, the value of the improvements put upon the land by any
defendant or tenant in possession as aforesaid shall exceed the
net mesne profits of said land, the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall at
the term of the court at which said judgment is rendered, elect
whether he will take his judgment and pay for the improve
ments so assessed against him or take pay from the defendant
or defendants for the net profits and the value of the land in
its natural state without the improvements, and if he elect to
take pay for the net profits and the value of the land without
the improvements as aforesaid, the said plaintifff or plaintifffs
■shall tender a warrantee deed to the defendant or defendants
for the said lands, upon the payment of its value as found by
the jury in its natural state without the improvements, which
payment shall be made to the plaintifff or plaintifffs in such rea

term The
as theprinciples
court may
.•,íuü';«uiL?"eB "> sonable
8 227.'}.
of allow.
the provisions of this act shall
—iarn¡¡;
"Pply and extend to all suits in chancery when the object of the
bill or answer is for the recovery of lands and tenements
Perea vs. (¡allego», vol, 2. page 123, W. C. Hep.

CHAPTER XX.

Partition in chancery; petition.
Parties, who are made and how.
Parties unknown
Interpleading
Decree, effect of

r.UtTITlON.
Section.
2274
2275
division
2276 Suits
do notofabate, when
2277
2278

sern05re 8^

PBOCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XX.

1064—§ 2274]
PARTITION.
§ 2274. When any lands, tenements or hereditaments
Partition i n chan shall be owned in joint tenancy, tenancy in common or copar
cery.
cenary, whether the right or title be derived by donation,
grant, purchase, devise or descent, it shall be lawful for any
one or more of the persons interested, whether they be iii pos
session or not, to present to the district court their petition in
Petition.
chancery praying for a division and partition of such premises,
according to the respective rights of the parties interested
therein, and for a sale thereof, if it shall appear that partition
L. 1876, chap. 3, ¡ l; cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners.
Jan. U.
Bent, etml., vs. Maxwell Land Grant and Railway Company, vol. 8, page 8, W. C. Rep
§ 2275. Every person having an interest in the premises,
beParties,
made andwhohow.are to whether having possession or otherwise, shall be made a party
to such petition, and in cases where one or more of such parties
shall be unknown or the share or quantity of interest of any of
the parties is unknown to the petitioner, or when such share or
interest shall be uncertain or contingent, or when there may be
any other impediment so that such parties cannot be named,
Id. 5 2.
the same shall be so stated in the petition.
§ 2276. All persons interested in the premises of which
Parties unknown. partition is sought to be made, whose names are unknown, may
be made parties to such partition by the name and description
of unknown owners or proprietors of the premises, or as un
known heirs of any person who may have been interested in
Id. ) 3.
et a]., vs. Maxwell Land Grant and Railway Company, vol. 3, page 8, W. C. B«ptheBent,
same.
§ 2277. During the pendency of any such suit or proceed
Interpleading.
ing any person claiming to be interested in the premises may
appear and answer the petition and assert his right by way of
interpleader, and the court shall decide upon their rights as
though they had been made parties in the first'instance.
Id. f 4.
§ 2278. The court shall ascertain and,de^d^and
-^ ,
parties .to
to such ^TriS* of *
titles and interests of all the P«faM
j
,n,r Vwa
render such decree
as may
be immured
required by the
tne ngm*
«
^
parties, which said decree shall be binding upon all
Id. i IS.
parties whether they be adults or not.
r ^
§ 2279. The court when it shall decree a P"¡J£led with
Coinmitwlonerfi, ap premises shall appoint three commissioners not con _ _
pointment
poWCfH. of; duties; S^SaS^a^^"consanguinity or affinity," and enBomeperso,6
^ of whom shaU take an oath before
partiX to m I
Z6d to admil»ster the same, fairly and un
tie decrep „f f. 6 Partltlon of said premises in ac<iordance mtii
if the same the,co"rt !,s to tbe rights and interests of partía
estate • and tr,0""- ,
ne consistently with the interests of the
>"»ke' oarHt; 6 * comniissio»era shall go upon thepremises and
I - tion of said lauds, tenements and hereditaments, asDecree, effect of.

1066—§ 2280]
signing to each party his share, by metes and bounds; and shall
L" WTO, chap. 8, 5 fi; make report in writing; under their hands, to the court, with
Jan. U.
all convenient speed, or within the time which may he pre
scribed by the court; and the court may upon the coming in
and filing of such report, make all such orders thereon, as may
be necessary, to a final disposition of the case.
§ 2280. When any lands, houses or lots are so circum
Sale 111 lieu uf parti stanced that a partition thereof cannot be made without mani
tiOD.
fest prejudice to the owners or proprietors of the same, and
the commissioners appointed to partition the same shall so re
port to the court, the court shall thereupon make an order for
the sale of such lands, houses and lots, in such manner anil
upon such terms, and by giving such notice of the sale as the
court shall direct, and the person or persons who shall be ap
pointed by such order to make sale thereof, shall make and
execute good and sufficient conveyance or conveyances to the
purchaser or purchasers thereof, which shall operate as an ef
Conveyances.
fectual bar both in law and equity against such owners and
proprietors parties to the proceedings, and all persons claim
ing under them ; and the person or persons making such sale
- shall report their proceedings to the court and shall pay oyer
the monies arising therefrom to the parties entitled to receive
■IonProceeds
of.
'
the same under the direction of the court.
§ 2281. No suit for a partition shall abate by the death of
Bulla
do
not
abate,
any
tenant, but upon the death of any tenant being a party to
when.
fdTTT
said suit the heirs or devisees of the said tenant may, on mo
tion, be made parties in his stead:

CHAPTER XXI.
IHVORCF
fctECTlO*.
Section. Order only to be issued by a judge of the supreme ^
Applicant must prove six monthtT residence
2282
court; summons, service of
8 2282. Hereafter no DIVORCE.
person shall commence any action
for divorce in any court of this Territory unless such person
Applicant
must
prove six mouths, re has been a bonafide resident of the Territory for the period of
sidence.
six months. Evidence of such residence, satisfactory to the
judge trying the case, shall be required by such judge before
L. 1884,
April
1. chap. 15, \ l; granting any judgment of divorce.
§ 228 ii. Sen-ice of process in actions for divorce, by pub
lication, can only be made after obtaining from a judge of the
Order
only
to
\yts
iwr-ueil
Judge oí su supreme court an order allowing the same. The affidavit or
premebycourt.

PKOCEDURE CIVIL.

[TU. XXXIH, OH. XXII.

1068—§ 2284]
affidavits on which such order is asked must show the pres
ent residence of the defendant, if known, or the last known
place of such residence with its date, and the efforts made to
ascertain the present residence ; and the order shall direct in
addition to the publication provided by law in the case of non
resident defendants, that a copy of the summons shall be
Summons, se r- mailed, postpaid, to the present or last known place of residence
Tice of.
of the defendant, and may direct such other means of bringing
the action to the knowledge of the defendant as to the judge
shall seem proper under the circumstances of any particular
L. 1881, chap. IB, i 2;
APr11 L
case.

CHAPTER XXII.
OFFICIAL SECURITIES.
Section
Heotiok. Bond, procedure when lost
25*
.. ..■■ 2284 Compensation, court to fix; how ■
Accounts against ooUeoting officers
Bait how to be brought; proof, judgment and
Attorney, judge may appoint, when; comp»» &
execution
tion
District
attorney, duty of; evidence competent.
OFFICIAL SECURITIES.
or other person
^•gainst*,,- § 2284. Whenever any revenue ^f1"'^ ¿ shall
shall
.ecang oacerresponsible for public money has neglected or rem
y
in future neglect or refuse to pay over £jhe
„,
treasurer
the
sum
or balance
balance lor
w,,„ ■„ ,,. ,
treasurer
the
sum
or
for
which
of
his
acwhich is due to the Territory, upon the settlement of his ac
counts it shall be the duty of the auditor of public accounts to
make a transcript of the account of such officer or person, vitt
Auditor's duty.
the Territory, showing the sum due the Territory, by such officer
or person, which said account shall be certified as true and
correct, as taken from the books of the auditor, and shall be
signed by said auditor and sealed with his official seal, and if
he shall have no official seal with his private seal, and the
auditor of public accounts shall transmit the same immediately,
together with correct copies of any other document, bond, obli
gation or other instrument of writing, signed, sealed, and certi
fied as aforesaid, to the district attorney or attorney general to
be used in the prosecution of such judge, officer, individual and
Tj. 1870,
sureties Such
if theyprosecution
have such sureties.
Feb.
8. Tr.chap. 39, § 1; their
§ 2285.
shall be brought for the whole
sum
due
and
the
interest
accrued, and it shall be sufficient to
Suit,
how
to
be
brought; proof.
prove the amount of the debt, and the fact that the securities
were the securities of the said officer or individual prosecuted
and judgment shall be given against said officer or individual
and their said securities for the sum so due and interest according
Judgment
and
ex
ecution.

1070-§ 2286 ]

FROCEDUBE civil.

[tit. XXXIII, CH. xxn.

ik.1™>r!ae'a>'sv to Iaw' ancl execution shall thereupon be issued against all the
parties so tried, in favor of the Territory.
duiM.trict»tton,«,y, § 2286. When any party shall be liable to be prosecuted
under the provisions of this act, it shall be the duty of the
district attorney to immediately commence a suit in favor of
the Territory against said party and his securities for the sum
due and interest according to law, and in the trial of any cause
t
now or that may be hereafter pending against any officer or
person and their securities, the certified transcript of the ac
count of said officer or individual provided for by this act, and
the certified copies of any other document, bond, obligation or
other instrument of writing sealed, signed and certified in con
formity with this act, or the originals, shall be admitted as
'™<evidence of such debt or liability of said officer or individual,
evidence
- a their securities,
, and the court° trying the cause shall give
id. i u. c o m ij e- ™d
judgment and issue execution in conformity to said evidence.
§ 22J57. Whenever the bond of any officer or individual
Bond, procedure of this Territory, who is or may hereafter be liable to be
when lost.
sued, under the provisions of this act, shall be destroyed or lost,
or cannot be found in the proper office where it should be
kept, the suit shall be carried on by evidence to prove such
fact, and judgment rendered in conformity therewith.
id. ¡ 4.
loíxTK'io'ffiSí1 § 2288. Every district judge holding court in this Terri
Compensation, court tory, when any civil or criminal cause shall be brought before
his court in which the Territory is a party, or may be inter
ested, if the prosecuting attorney of the Territory in such case
has not his fees fixed by law, the judge presiding shall order a
just recompense for his services which shall be paid from the
funds of the Territory upon a warrant drawn by the auditor of
public accounts on presentation of a certificate of such judge
L.
1870,
chnp.
3^
t'5;
in favor of the prosecuting attorney as aforesaid.
Feb. 3. Tr.
vrtSZtiS?' —* § 2289. Every judge who is authorized by law to hold
Attorney. Judge may courts within this Territory, on the presentation of any case,
civil or criminal, in which the Territory is a party or may be
interested, if the prosecuting attorney of the Territory shall
not be present to attend to the case by reason of sickness or
inability, or shall be a party thereto, the judge trying the cause
is hereby authorized to appoint a person learned in the la»
take and defend the cause on the part of the Territory, ana
such person shall receive for his services a just compensation
from the funds of the Territory, taxed by the said judge, an«
Compensation.
which shall not be less than five dollars nor more than tenclo lars. it being understood that the auditor of public ac00™h
shall issue a warrant upon presentation of a certificate of sn
judge in favor of the applicant, and the treasurer of the iwntory shall pay the same from the funds in his hands not otiw
Id. i 6.
wise appropriated.

íbooedübe civil.

Lht. mm, cé. Xxttt

1072—§ 2290]
CHAPTER XX1I1.
MISCELLANEOUS.
TO RESTRAIN GAMING.
SEcnoK.
Skotion. Refusal to anBwer, confession
.... 8*
.... *29S
Lobs, recovery of, how
Answer not admissible, when
2299
2291
Bets on elections defined as gambling
Action, form of
2282
.....
2»°
Remedy,
who
have
Stakeholder,
liability
of;
proviso
Void for want of consideration; how set aside 2298 Creditor's remedy against winner
M
2284
Defense not affected
gas
2295 Limitation
Ouardians or masters may recover
Exemption from punishment
Special plea
ACCOUNT RENDER.
Petition for appointment of aoditors
280* Exceptions; appeals
^
Auditors, duties and powers
2805 | Compensation and fees
RELATING TO DAMAGES.
Fires in woods, etc., nveasureof damages;i; forfeit, 231!
Damages, measure of, responsibility for; who
■an
division of
may recover; negligence, plaintifff to prove ....
Fires; double
i.m.,ldamages.
hv ."in,
notice to be given; value
281)9
Damages, liability for
Animals
killed
by
cars.
■23111
,„ove^TZ. when;.rbitn.<ion, condlüen. ^
Damages, limit of
2811
of; appeal from arbitration
■
s„
Damages, above value
2812 Actions, limitation of
Judgment as on contraots
MISCELLANEOÜS-TO RESTRAIN GAMING.
8 2290. Any person who shall lose any money or pwp-/
Lose, reoovery of, at any game at cards, or at any gambling device, mayi
srer* the same by action of debt, if money; if property, by
L. _ 1H67.
(l;C. Jan.24,
trover,
replevin
detinue.
§ 2291.
In or
such
action it shall be sufficient for the plain
tiff
to
declare
generally
as in actions for debt for money had
Action, form of.
and received for the plaintifff's use, or as in actions of trover ox
detinue for a supposed finding and the detaining or converting
the property of the plaintifff to the use of the defendant where
Id. 5 2.
by§an action hath
accrued
to theheirs,
plaintifff.
The wife,
children,
executors, administrators
and
creditors
of
the
person
losing,
may have the same remedy
Remedy, who have.
against the winner as provided in the preceding section.
Id. 5 8.
§ 2293. All judgments, securities, bonds, bills, notes or
conveyances, when the consideration is money or property won
Void
for
want
of
con
sideration; how to be
r at any game or gambling device, shall be void;
Bet aside.
.
.„ °„„,lr).. 0f£ f-.;hr
noon a
at gambling, or at any game ■ i s-—
eaU1ty upl
and may bl set aside or vacated by
£JiDg giving,
bill filed for that purpose, by the person bo F*» Jtor orby
entering into, or executing the same or by anj^ ^
his executors, administrators, or by an) Heir, p
persons interested therein.
Joseph vs. Miller, vol. L page621, N. M. Rep
f bond, bill note, ]=;f
,,,
-.-< »«.■•- § 2294. ^!^Vt^^^'^'aaA the
conveyance, or other securit;
the person executing the same.
Id. 5 5.

1094-§ 2295 j

pbocedübe civil.

1 tit. xxxui, ch; xxia

§ 2295. If any minor, servant or apprentice shall lose
duardians or mas any money or property in any grocery, store or dram shop by
ters may recover.
betting at cards, or any other gambling device, or by any other
bet, wager or hazard whatever, the father, mother, relations or
guardian of such minor, or the master of such apprentice or
servant may sue for and recover from the keeper of such
"c. l:id65, ohapTaM grocery, store or dram-shop, such money or property or the
' r' value thereof, so lost by such minor, apprentice or servant

Special plea.
Id. } 7.

§ 2296. Any matter of defense, under this act, may be
specially pleaded or given in evidence under the general issue.

§ 2297. In all suits under this act, before a justice of the
Refusal to answer, peace, the plaintifff may call in the defendant to answer on oath
confession .
any interrogatory touching the case; and if the defendant re
fuse to answer, the same shall be taken as confessed.
bie,°K.not Bdn""8i- § 2298. Such answer shall not be admitted against such
rfd.T».—
person as evidence in any criminal proceeding.
§ 2299. Bets and wagers on an election authorized by the
Bets on election de constitution and laws of the United States or by the laws of
nned (gambling.
this Territory, are gaming within the meaning of this act.
_Id7TiiC
it^e^fe
§ 2300. Every stakeholder who shall knowingly receive
any money or property, staked upon any betting declared
gaining by the provisions of this act, shall be liable to the
party who placed such money or property in his hands, both
before and after the determination of such bet, and the de
livery of the money or property to the winner, shall be no de
fense to an action brought by the loser for the recovery
thereof: Provided, that no stakeholder shall be liable after
wards, unless a demand has been made upon such stakeholder,
for the money or property in his possession, previous to the ex
piration of the time agreed upon by the parties for the deter
Id. i 11
mination of such bet or wager.
§ 2301. Any creditor to any person losing by any gam" nt
cards or any other gambling device, in addition to the remeii\
Creditors*
rem e d y provided by the above sections of this act, shall have the rlgM
against
winner.
to garnishee the winner in any proceeding by attachment o
execution, and the same proceeding shall be had thereon as
such winner were a debtor of the party losing to the amoun^
of money, property, rights or credits, that may appear to ha •
been so won by said winner from the party losing.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.
[TIT. XXXIII, CH. HO.
1076—§ 2302 j
Limitation.
§ 2302. Any action for money or property brought under
TrtTS5jdbSpTS; ¡ this act, shall be commenced within one year from the time
such action accrued, and not afterwards.
§ 2303. All persons who shall claim money or property
Exemption from lost at gaming, or when said money or property may be claimed
punishment.
by his wife, child, relation, or friend, said person, although he
may have gambled, is hereby exempted from the punishment
imposed by the laws prohibiting and restraining gaming.
Id. S 1».
ACCOUNT RENDER.
§ 2 304. When any partner of a joint partnership business
Petition
for appoint shall refuse or neglect, at the request of any other partner, to
ment
of auditors.
come to a settlement with him or them, of the affairs of said
joint partnership business, it shall be lawful for any member
of said firm to present a petition to the district judge, in vaca
tion or term time, stating, under oath, the name and nature of
the firm, and that one or more of said partners refuses or neg
lects to come to a settlement concerning such partnership busi
ness, asking said district judge to appoint three competent au
'[ 1;C. Jon.
L. 1865,
chap.Tr.3V ditors to adjust the accounts between the said partners.
30, 1866.
--'
~~181!.
Rep.
vs. Beokwith,
vol. «i.judge
PBge 182. shall,
N. M. Be;
§^ Waldo
2305.
The 1 said
upon presentation of said•J
Auditors, duties and petition aforesaid, appoint three suitable persons to adjust the
powers.
accounts between said partners. They shall appoint the time
ana place of meeting, of which they shall give due notice to
power to compel the pres
tne parties
interested,
have of books and papers, by
ence
of witnesses
and and
the shall
production
subpoena, m the same manner as courts of record. At the time
or meeting, the auditors shall proceed to examine the partnersnip accounts, and, if they shall deem the same to be necessary,
may take the testimony of the parties in interest, under oatb.
touching the said accounts; and the said auditors shall report
Exception,- .ppe.,.. o
Proceedings to the next term of the district court
.«ppeais. § 2306. If either party is dissatisfied with the reportoi said
auditors, he shall file exceptions to the same and appeal to the
-ÜE-p
t\ a ,C°Urt within five days after
report shall have been
nled ; otherwise the said report shall be confirmed by said court,
compensation
.nd
• on and

r 2307.be final
and conclusive
in the two
matter.
§
The auditors
shall receive
dollars per day each
tor each day's attendance, and witnesses shall be entitled to the
same fees as when in attendance before the district court All
costs shall follow the determination of the proceedings as in

Id. } 4.
other cases.
RELATING TO DAMAGES.
^
D.m.ge., me.,- 8 2308. Whenever any person shall die
killful„ess
uro
O *\ ' from, or „„„«oir>Tlftd
for. of; responsibility resulting
oecasioneu bv
uy the neglige*"*'
o sprvant or en-f 0ye,
J
or criminal intent of any officer, agent b locolUotive, car,
whilst running, conducting or managing )

1078-§ 2309]

pbocbbokb emu

^[^xxm^

or tram of cars, or of any driver of any stage coach or other
public conveyance, while in charge of the same as driver; and
when any passenger shall die from any injury resulting from,
or occasioned by any defect or insufficiency in any railroad,
or any part thereof, or in any locomotive or car, or in any stage 1
coach or other public conveyance, the corporation, individual
or individuals, in whose employ any such officer, agent, ser
vant, employé, engineer or driver, shall be at the time such
injury was committed, or who owns any such railroad, locomo
tive, car, stage coach, or other public conveyance, at the time
any injury is received, resulting from, or occasioned by any
detect or insufficiency above declared, shall forfeit and pay for
wh„mny r^.ver. every person or passenger so dying, the sum of five thousand
dollars, which may be sued and recovered: First, by the hus
band or wife of the deceased; or second, if there be no hus
band or wife, or if he or she fails to sue within six months after
such death, then by the minor child or children of the de
ceased; or third, if such deceased be a minor and unmarried,
then by the father and mother, who may join in the suit, and
each shall have an equal interest in the judgment; or if either
Negligence piBintm j the-'U be deacl' then by the s«ryivor. In suits instituted un'
(ler thls section, it shall be competent for the defendant for his
fl. i»B, ch»p. 6i,i i; defense to show that the defect or insufficiency named in this
section, was not of a negligent defect or insufficiency.
§ 2309. Whenever the death of the person shall be caused
by
Damages, Uabil- ^a wrongful act, neglect or default of another, and the act or
neglect or default is such as would, if death had not ensued,
Ity for.
k„
have entitled the party injured to maintain an action and re
cover damages in respect thereof, then, and in every such case,
the person who, or the corporation which would have been
hable, if death had not ensued, shall be liable to an action for
damages, notwithstanding the death of the person injured.
Id. 5 2.
D. ,V,R. (4. R K. vs. Harris, vol. 1, page 82», W. C. Rep.
Alexander m.T 4LC.8.H. Co., vol S, page 71. W. C. Rep.
§ 2310. All damages accruing under the last preceding
section shall be sued for and recovered by the same parties and
Damage*, limit of. in the same manner as provided in section 230S, and in every
such action the jury may give such damages, not exceeding five
thousand dollars, as they may deem fair and just, with refer
ence to the necessary injury resulting from such death, to the
surviving parties, who may be entitled to sue, and also having
- regard to the mitigating or aggravating circumstances attend
Id. j 3.
D a m ag e p, above
value.

ing such wrongful act, neglect or default
§ 231 1. The jury on the trial of any issue, or inquisition
of damages, may, if they shall think fit, give damages in the na1080—§ 2312]
l.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[tit. XXXIII, OH. XXIII.

chap, «i, } i; ture of interest, over and above the value of the goods at the
time of the conversion or seizure.

§ 2312. Defendants in a judgment founded on an action
Judgment as on con for the redress of a private wrong shall be subject to contribu
tract.
tion, and all other consequences of such judgment in the same
id. ; s. '
manner and to the same extent, as defendants in a judgment
in an action founded on a contract.
eamreof damage.
Fires
etc.,
measureinofwoods,
damage.
F-rftit, division o,.
id. i e.

§ 231 3. If any person shall willfully set on fire any woods,
marshes or prairies so as thereby to occasion damages to any
other person, such person shall pay a sum not exceeding five
hundred dollars nor less than fifty dollars, one-half thereof for
the use of the person prosecuting the same, and the other half
for the use of the county in which the offense is committed

§ 2314. If any person shall set on fire any woods, marshes,
Fires, double dam prairies, whether his own or not, so as thereby to occasion any
ages.
damage to any other person, such person shall make satisfactjpn in double damages to the party injured, to be recovered by
1 7civil action.

Anima* k....d g § 2 31 5. Whenever any animal or anim
^
„. notice «o be ^ ¿ b the cal'S, locomotive OT O^T C* ^ OT
any railroad in this Territory, tt«, o^er d such
^ ft
mate shall forthwith give a written nota» ™
^
or affirmation, to the station agent, olTsucn ^ ^a
charge of the station nearest ta.the place
h
unlla v.
°r klnd ^y^ere, f„„i
„■„
•ess the agent or legal representative of the company or cor
poration running such railroad shall pay or tender to such owner
dnv. i?6 "'I JUst value of such animal or animals within sixty
hll J
6 °n Which the notice above mentioned shaü
JlZ u .serTed uPon the station agent as aforesaid, the owner
* ™X,«^n™>v. « such animal or animals may recover double the true value of
m" an,I.mal or armáis, in an action against such company, or
hep Vil a precluct in wh¡ch such animal or animals may have
»<,.,*
,°r lnjured, or of the precinct in which such station
mTrl-T7
his office' if the demand shall not exceed the
th"
of tbe Justicfi of the peace, in civil causes; otherwise
e owner may bring his suit as aforesaid in the distñct court
or in I?"?
the COUI1ty in which sucb animals were killed
mav 1
i •
nearest agent of said company or corporation
y «ave his office. In case the agent or other legal repre

1082—§ 2316 1

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. TOO.

sentative of the railroad company and the owner of the animal
or animals so killed or injured fail to agree upon the compen
sation to be paid for such animal or animals, the parties, or
either of them, may, at any time before the expiration of said
sixty days, submit the question of liability, as well as of damage.
Arbitran.», cedí, to arbitrators who shall be selected as follows: One by the owner
of the animal or animals so killed or injured, and one by the
tlons of.
railroad company or its agent; the third to be selected by the
two so selected by the parties, and the decision of a majority of
the arbitrators shall be binding upon both parties, unless anap»rbt- peal be taken therefrom within ten days after both parties shall
Appeal from
have been notified of the finding of said arbitrators to the dis
tratlon.
trict court; such appeals shall be taken in the same manner and
the same proceeding had, as in cases of an appeal from a justice
of the peace. Upon the trial in the district court, if the value of
the animal or animals as found by the jury be not greater than
the sum tendered by the said railroad company or its agent in
the first instance, the railroad company shall recover of the
owner of such animal or animals the cost of the arbitrators, and
of the appeal and trial ; but if the value so found shall exceed
the amount tendered by the company or its agent in the first
Damages, limit of instance, then the owner of such animal or animals shall be
entitled to a judgment for double the value of the animal or
animals so killed or injured, found by the jury together with
L. 1882, chap. 61, 4 8; costs: Provided, however, that this section shall apply only in
Feb. 18.
Amendment of 1884. cases where such animal or animals shall be negligently killed
or injured by the cars, locomotives, or other carriage used on
such railroad, in places where such railroad is not enclosed and
protected by a good and sufficient fence, together with proper
and suitable cattle guards, to prevent stock from getting on
such railroad. That for the purposes of this act a good and
sufficient fence is defined to be a barbed wire fence, consisting
of three wires strung upon and securely fastened to substantial
Fence,
good
find
euf
ttcient, defined.
posts, not less than four feet and nine inches high, standing
eight feet apart, the first and lowest wire to be not less than
eighteen inches from the ground, the top wire to be four feet
E ism, chap. 32 } F six inches from the ground, and having a pine board six inches
April 1.
uoVoV ° "
-ij-p

' above
ground
Umlw- § 2 3 1 0. Every action instituted by virtue of the provisions
of this act must be brought within one year after the cause o
action shall have accrued, or after this act shall go into enect.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

I TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

1084—§ 2317]
CHAPTEB XXIV.
BEFORE JUSTICES.
Bectio*.
Section. Replevin, affidavit required
mm
Qualifications of justice of the peace
2817 Replevin, writ to command, what; person to ap
Oath, substance of; filing
2318 pear; concealed property, how replevied
Jurisdiction, extent of; proviso
2319 Replevin bond, conditions of; returnable with 2967
Vacancy, procedure in event of; courts all to be
writ; failure to execute, effect of; officer liable
public
2320 for damages, when
Jurisdiction in cases stated
2321 Replevin, proceedings on return; jury to assess 2388
Contempt, when justice may punish
2322 value; judgment for defendant, when..
2*9
Punishment for contempt, limit
2323 Bond, suits on, when to commence
2370
Defense to be heard
2324 Plea, not guilty, issues under
2571
Record to show, what
2325 Attachment may issue, when
Subpoenas may issue in certain cases
2326 Attachment, affidavit to set forth, what
237!
2327 Attachment shall state, what; command of.. 2374
Defendants, right of jury
Papers, filing of with clerk, when; default, pen
Attachment, duties of officer under; service, how
L"7S
alty for
to ba made
Docket to be kept, to show what
2829 Removal
unnecessary if bond be given; bond,
Process, in what name to tun; date and how to
conditions of
2378
be directed
233(1 Attachments,
Summons first process; fubstanceof; time of ser
Attachment, hearing
notice ofof by publication; notice. 2377
*M
vice
2331 substance of
Return, how made; to be signed
2332
time required
^
Special officer may be appointed; powers; fee*. . . 2333 Notice,
default
Attachmentbymay
be dissolved, when and how ... 23S1
Officer failing to serve process, liability
2334 Judgment
Infant may sue, how; next friend, appointment
effect of dissolution
of
2335 Attachment,
be summoned,. when
Guardian ad litem, appointment of
2336 Garnihheeto
Garnishee, continnaneeofsuit
against;costs, 1 23»
23*1
Appearance, one hour allowed for
2337 to be assessed
Reconciliation, opportunity to be given — ..... 23.18 Garnishee, summons to show cause
Pleadings; continuance, limit of
2339 Judgment to be rendered, when; proviso; jndg- 2386
Land titles, proceedings to cease
2340 neat for costs
failure to answer; penalty
V&i
Set-off, conditions of
2341 Garnishee,
Set-off against promissory note
2312 Garnishee, refusal to answer, effect of; amount.
Set-off in favor of representative
2343 limii of
... 23^
2388
Set-off, how entitled to
2344
corporations liable as
Set-off, judgment how to be rendered; exceptions 2345 Garnishees,
Appeals, how to be taken; bond required
23*
Subpoena, service of
2346 Appeal suspends proceedings on judgment
2391
Attachment, may issue, when; proviso
2347 Transcript
docket
be conducted
filed
2392
Appeal, trialofon,
how toto be
23W
Attachment, service of; fees, who to pay; excep
tions
2348 Appeals, docketing of; who shall be plaintifff.... 2394
Depositions, how and when may be taken
2349 Appeals, judgment, how to be rendered
23*3
Depositions, how used; exceptions
2350 Jurisdiction in criminal cases;exannnntionii.... 2395
Judgmentby default
2351 Assaults, procedure relating to
Peace proceedings; bond required; amount; con 2881
Jury, either party may demand; six men to con
stitute; how empaneled; venire facias to is
ditions if bond is given ...
**
sue; talesmen; oath of juror; oath of witness;
Discharged,
'J™
241H
verdict and judgment
2352 Assault in presence of justice, punishment
Jury, when may be discharged; new venire to isBond may be forfeited in district court
2401
when todeliver to clerk 'Jr
Bue, exception
2353 Bond
Dockettotobebedischarged,
ke pt; transcript
*W
Jnror, penalty for default
2354 Soarch
warrant to issue, when; goods, seizure and
Execution to issue, when; immediately upon affi
davit, when
2355 restoration
"
Execution shall command, what
2356 Change of venue, petition
causes for
and affidavit, substance
Execution, endorsement of
2357
Execution, renewal of
2358 Change!
of; when
to be denied
of venue,
hearing; when to beallowed '^.
- '
Notice of sale, substance of
23**0 Change
of venue, transcript and papers to be ^
Bale, how to be made, execution, return of
2860
Officer, purchase by, null and void
2361 Chango
of venue, costsand expenses
••■ ^
transmitted
Garnishees, proceedings against
2352 Change
of venue, absenceof papers notcao* f°r
Money tobe receipted for
2363
ill-'
Replevin, when actions of may be brought
2364 discontinuance; copies admissible
Replevin, actions of how commenced
2365

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[tit. xxxiii, ch. xxn.

1086—§ 2317 J
Section
Archives and documents, failure to deliver over;
penalty for
2111
Suite, where to be commenced
2412
Suit, where to be commenced in cape of abscond
ing defendant
2413
Appeals, transcript and papen to be filed
2414
Appeals, witnesses may be summoned, when
2415
Summons,
Court to beeffect
held inofprecinct¡penalty for violation 2416
2417
Causes tried beyond precinct limits null and void;
right of parties
2418
Jurisdiction, how affected
2419
Judgment final in certain cases; appeal to be
granted, when
2420
Forcible entry und detainer may be prosecuted,
when
,
2421
Action, representative may bring
2422
Notice required
2123
Complaint to be under oath
2424
Suit may he brought in adjoining townships,
when
2425
Appearance and pleading, time limited
2426
Adjournment, how limited
2427

Qualifications.

Judgment, how tobe entered;damages andcost*,
how to bo levied
3428
Title not to be investigated
24»
Action; how to be limited
2480
Warrant to be executed in the day time
2431
Land not abandoned, when; exception; adverse
entry unlawful
2432
Appeals,
how to be taken; bond, effect of
2433
Appeals, procedure on; bonds, securities liable.. 2434
Appeals; damages, howto be assessed
2435
Bonds on appeal
2438
Processes,
who maynotexecute
Right of landlord
affected by underleasing.. 2437
MM
Plea of lessee in certain cases
2439
Appeal, either party may take
2441)
Appeal bond, how to be executed: effect
2441
Certiorari, how obtained; summons to issae by
clerksdc noro; amendments to beallowed.
2442
Trials
2443
Certiorari, neglect to obey: penalty
2444
1 Magistrates, all justices declared tobe
2445
, Power to administer oaths, etc
2441
Forms to be followed
244'

BEFORE JUSTICES.
§ 281 7. No person shall be elected a justice of the peace
who is not a citizen of the United States, and who shall not have
been a resident of this Territory at least twelve months, and of
the county in which he shall reside at least six months before

~~L. 1876, chap. 'ü7
Jan. 13.

his election.
§ 2818. Every justice of the peace, elected in either of
suWtauce of; the counties of this Territory, shall before he enters upon the
Oath,
filing.
duties of his office, take and subscribe an oath or affirmation,
in writing, to support the constitution of the United States,
and the laws of this Territory, and faithfully to discharge, and
perform all the duties of his said office, according to the best
of his abilities and understanding; which oath or affirmation,
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the district court of
the county in which said justice of the peace may reside.
Id. S 2.

of.Jurisdiction,

§ 2819. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace shall be
co-extensive with the limits of the county in which they sha
be elected: Provided, that every justice of the peace shall
reside and hold his office, in the precinct for which he maybe

Id. $ 3.
elected.
m^SrtSj pPooedar* § 232 0. If any justice of the peace dies, resigns, or removes
out of the precinct, for which he may be e\ecied, or bis term
of office be in any manner terminated, the docket boofc,

peooEdü&e civil.

[tit. XíXin> 05L xm

1088—§ 2321]
records, papers and documents pertaining to his office, or re
lating to any suit, matter or controversy, committed to him in
his official capacity, shall be delivered to the nearest justice of
the peace, in the same county; who may thereupon proceed to
hear, try and determine such matter, suit or controversy; or
issue execution thereon, in the same manner as it would have
t justices' courtt aii been lawful for the justice before whom such matter, suit or
"TTiwe, chnp, 71, ; «5 controversy was commenced to have done. And all justices'
,an-13' ' courts shall be public.
4m
,^--^tottii."dloUonl,1M8<"/-- § 2321. Every justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction
,
co-extensive with the county for which he is elected:
/r//?
Action.Mr debt.
First—In all civil actions when the debt, balance due or
/, j e f
damages, shall not exceed one hundred dollars, except in actions
'
for slander, libel and false imprisonment, or where the title or
of lands
shall
come
question.
^Pc.co, prMerving boundary
Second—To
cause
to be
keptin all
laws made for the preserva
l^H"- "","'»

tionThird—To
of the peace.
cause to come before him, persons who shall
break the peace, and commit to jail or bail tbem as the case
Fourth—To
arrest all persons who attempt to break the
may
be.
peace, and compel them to give security for their good behavior

to keep the
peace.
. a"..
offerer., to hear. andFifth—To
cause
to be arrested and brought before him
persons charged with an offense against any of the laws of the
Territory and commit them to jail, or take bond for their ap
pearance before the district court, at the next term thereof a
county, asall
thecases
case of
maylarceny
require.
^rcen, case., value theSixth—In
and receiving stolen goods.
when the value of the goods stolen or received does not exceed
ancetfu"*",,ddle,urb" twenty
Seventh—In
dollars. all cases of common assault, assault and battery.
_
affray, and disturbing religious congregation or public meetings.
dama"ce1°tol,'ed,ch,e,' Eighth—In all cases of malicious mischief or injury, wnere
the damage done, does not exceed one hundred dollars.
ocJSaST Mrr,""r Ninth—la all cases of the unlawful carrying of conceaie
weapons.
•
,
j
^ZiTo™"*
Tenth—In all cases of unlawful altering of weights
measures, or using false weights and measures.
Eleventh—In all other offenses defined in this act.
^
punishment, limit of In all criminal cases within the jurisdiction of justices o
In criminal cases.
.'Ill
peace the punishment upon conviction
snail Via
De.
u™™*
First—In cases of larceny, by a fine not exceeding one dred dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail tor tn
nJ^r'"""1

• of Second—In
three months.cases of buying, receiving or aiding ui
. fte ^y
cealment of stolen goods, or money, the same punisnm
in larceny.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.
1090—§ 2322 1
Mttiicioim mischief.

Third—In all cases of malicious mischief the same punish
as in larceny.
Assault mid battery. ment
Fourth—In
cases of assault and battery, by imprisonment
in the [county jail for a period not less than two months nor
exceeding six months, or with a fine not less than twenty-five dol
lars nor exceeding one hundred dollars, or both at the discre
tion of the court trying the cause.
in^TOBceated".' a'"y~
—I" cases of unlawful carrying of concealed weapons
the same punishment as in larceny,
otuer awes.
Sixth—In all other cases, by imprisonment in the county
l. ime, chap. 27, ¡5; jail of not more than thirty days, or fine not more than one
hundred dollars, or both
Bray
vs. U.vs.8.,Vuldez,
vol. 1, pagel,
N. M.48
. Bep.N. M.. Hep.
Territory
vol. 1, page
vol. z,2, page ,„183, N, . M. Hep.
Territory vs. Baca,
Haca, voi.
may^nM,;"" ""~ § 2322. In the following cases and no others, a justice of
Contempt, when
the, peace may punish for contempt.
taui»rder„ oeh.vior ÍW-Disorderly, contemptuous and insolent behavior towaids such justice, while engaged in the trial of a cause, or in
rendering judgment, or in any judicial proceeding, which shall
his au^hOTityUpt SUCh pr0Cee^S °* impair the respect due to
¿£232$?
order, or process^

Second—Any breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbu resistance or disobedience of any lawful order or

id. ( o.
process
made Punishments
or issued by for
him.contempt in the foregoing cases,
tero]?uima"'ürco°'
§
may be by fine not exceeding ten dollars, or by imprisonment
not exceeding three days, at the discretion of the justice; but
ar>Jr~
' no person shall be committed to jail for the non-payment of
such fine.
J
r
§ 2324. No person shall be punished for contempt before
Detente to be beard. a justice of the peace, until an opportunity shall be given him
to be heard in his defense; and for that purpose the justice
td. 1 8.
may issue his warrant to bring the offender before him.
H^cord, to show § 2325. Upon conviction of any person for contempt be
fore a justice of the peace, the justice shall make up a record
of the proceedings on such conviction, stating the particular
circumstances of the case, and the judgment rendered therein. '
Id. 5 9.
§ 2326. Justices of the peace are empowered to issue sub
poenas for such witnesses in all matters submitted to referees,
SubpceuaB,
may
Is
sueid.in icertain
lo. cases. or arbitration, and in all cases when it may be necessary to
^Defe-dam, right of take
§ 2327.
In all cases before justices of the peace, wherein
depositions.
wTHT—
, Justlce has original jurisdiction, the defendant shall not be
paper, fllm"«"'""o
„
tlePrlve<l
of the
right of aupon
trialthe
by jury.
ci.rt,wí¡«
§ 2328.
Whenever
investigation of any offense.
the justice of the peace shall commit, or bail any persons to ap'pnOCEDDEE CIVIL.

f TIT. XXXIII, OB. XXTV.

1092—§ 2329]
pear at the next term of the district court of his county, it
shall be his duty to file the papers pertaining to said case, with
the clerk of the district court of said county, on or before the
Default, penal* for. first day of the next term of said court; or in default thereof
the said justice shall forfeit and pay for each and every offense
as aforesaid, a sum not less than ten, nor more than fifty dolL.W76, ch»p.27,si2; '"s, to be recovered upon motion, with three days notice before
the said district court.
§ 2329. Every justice of the peace shall keep a docket in
Docket, to keep; to which he shall enter the title of all causes commenced before
show what.
him, the time when process was issued, and the particular na
ture thereof, the time when the parties appeared, either with or
without the return of process, a brief statement of the na
ture of the plaintifffs demand, and the amount claimed;
and if set-off was pleaded, a similar statement of the set-off and
amount estimated, every continuance, stating at whose request,
and for what time, the time when the trial was had, and
whether by jury, or otherwise, the verdict of the jury and when
rendered; the time of issuing execution, and the officer to whom
delivered, and an account of the debt, damages and costs, and
tho fees due to each person separately ; the fact of an appeal
- being made and allowed, and the time when granted; when sat
isfaction was made, and such other entries as may be material.
Id. { 13.
m'd§ 2330. All process shall run in the name of the Territory
. of New Mexico, be dated on the day of issue signed by the
Procesa,
in
what
name
date and
— justice, and directed to the sheriff, or any constable of the
how totnberon:
directed.

Jan. 13.

Id. i U.

proper county.
§ 2331. In all cases, not otherwise specially- provided for,
Summons, first pro- the first process shall be a summons, commanding the officer to
summon the defendant to appear before said justice, at the
time and place stated in the summons, not less than five days,
nor more than twenty days, from the date thereof, to answer to
the plaintifffs demand; the nature of the action to be set forth
and contained in the Summons, which summons shall be served
at least five days before the return day thereof, by reading the
Id- ¡ issam8 to the defendant or bv delivering to him a true copy
thereof.
s

madet?™'¿°"gn2db0
Tarns

■

§ 2332- Evel7 constable or sheriff serving any process au
thorized by this act, shall make a return thereon in writing
stating the time and manner of service, and shall sign his name

return.
¿wXi*^w^vto §such
2333.
Every justice issuing any process authorized by
this act, upon being satisfied that such process will not be executed for want of an officer to be had in time to execute the
/ S & f.fni Same' mny empower any suitable person to execute the same.

1094-§ 2334]

PROCEDURE civil.

[tit. xxxiii, CH. XXIV.

- ..,„ bv an endorsement to that effect upon the process; and the
._ ^___MU«. by -n-d3mwered ghall
ft ^ authority of a
Jan. 13.
stable in relation to the execution of such process nd haU be
subject to the same obligations, and receive the same fees for
his services.
§-334. If any officer without showing good cause there
Officer
failing
in
nerve procera, Hábil- for, fail to execute any process delivered to him, and to make
lt».
due return thereof, such officer, for every such offense, shall
pay the party injured the sum of ten dollars, and all damages
such party may have sustained by reason thereof; to be re
Id. ( 18.
covered by an action of debt, founded on this statute,
intant may SUe, huw. g 2335. An infant may sue by its father, mother,
Nextfri
guardian or next friend. When requested, the justice shall
pointmeiitof.1"' "p' appoint some suitable person, as next friend, who shall signify
nis acceptance of such appointment in writing, and shall 1»
*>• s is.
agreed to by such plaintifff, and said next friend shall 1m held
responsible for the costs of said suit.
§ 2336. After service and return of process against an in
Guardian adof. litem fant defendant, the suit shall proceed no further, until a guar
appointment
dian shall have been appointed ad litem. The justice shall,
upon the request of such defendant, appoint some discreet
person to act as guardian, who shall assent thereto in writing;
but if said defendant shall fail, or refuse to appear, or to nom
inate such guardian, the justice shall appoint some discreet per
son as aforesaid, and the consent of such guardian shall 1»
filed with the justice ; but the said guardian so appointed shall
Id. S 20not* be
liable for the
costs
of the suit.
Utí
____.the
......return
h_^<"™*r_ J
2337. UU
Upon
of process duly served, the jusAppearance
onn
__
•)
*)
n
n
-rr
ÍS i
— face shall wait one hour, after the time specified for the ap
pearance of parties unless they sooner appear.
gwjrtom,, to & 3
It shall be the duty of the justice of the peace
Reconciliation
R -)QQOto the
t_ commencement of any trial, to propose to the
_____
previous
parties, that they reconcile the matter in controversy, and to
glve11them _an opportunitv
so. each party may plead
P°D return of
of doing
any process
Pleading,.
9 ____ butTTshall give a bill of particulars of his demand, if
or 8allege,
rconrton«ce iimt, rfquired bJ[ the justice, or opposite party; the justice shall
men upon the application of either party on good cause shown
adjourn the case for such time as may be required, not exceed
■>■» *._____,
- ing45 thirty
2340. days.'
If it appear on the trial of any cause from the
__ euuence.
that the title to lands is in question, the justice shall
._____
Land tltlw, proceed
B ->
immediately make an entry thereof on his docket, and cease

ot " U'"> "Mitten.

hit ™rtller
■ 1 JL' proceedings.
defendant may set off demands which he has
- emst
a o .the
, plaintifff,
,
if his demand arises upon a judgment, or

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. XXIV.

1098—§ 2342]
upon a contract expressed or implied, whether such contact
L. 1876, chap. 27,5'^; De written or unwritten, sealed or without seal, and if it be
Jan. 13.
founded upon a bond or other contract having a penalty, the
T Íq-?I,tablT due hi' virtue of ««> condition, only shall be
set oft if; his demand be due him; if the demand existed at the
u ?/,t.üeJcommencement of the suit and belonged to himseit; if his demand be against the plaintifff in the action, un
less the suit be brought in the name of a plaintifff who has no
real interest in the contract, upon which the suit is brought,
in winch case no set-off of a demand against the plaintifff shall
oe allowed, except, as hereinafter provided. If there be several
attendants the demand plead in set-off, must be due to them
ail jointly; if the action be founded upon a contract, other
tnan a promissory note, a bill of exchange, which has been
assigned by the plaintifff, a demand against such plaintifff, or
any asignee of such contract, at the time of assignment thereof,
and belonging to the defendant in good faith before notice of
such assignment, may be set off to the amount of the plaintifff's
debt; if the demand be such as might have been set off against
such plaintifff or assignee while the contract belonged to him.
§ 2342. If the action be upon a negotiable promissory
Set-off, against pro note, or bill of exchange which has been assigned to plaintifff
missory now.
after it became due, a set-off to the amount of the plaintifff's
debt may be plead; if a demand existing against any person
°r P?,^sons' w,1° sllal1 Ilave assigned or transferred such note,
or bill after it became due, if the demand be such as might
have been set off against the assignor or while the note or bill
Id. Í 36.
belonged to him.
§ 2343. If the plaintifff be trustee for any other, or if the
Set-off, ugRlnet re suit be in the name of a plaintifff, who has no real interest in
presentative.
the contract upon which the suit is founded, so much of a
demand existing against those whom the plaintifff represents,
or for whose benefit the action is brought, may be set off
against the plaintifff's demands if the same might have been
set off in the action, by those beneficially interested,
ta. enuu^ § 2 34é To entiUe a defendant to a set off he mngt plead
or give notice of the same.
§ 2345. If the amount of the set-off dub/established be
equal
to the plaintifff's debt on demand, judgment shall be
S etot-oiT,
judgment, entered
§ 234?that the plaintifff take nothing by his action; if «be
how
be remk-rud
less than the plaintifff's debt or demand, the plaintifff shall have
judgment for the residue only; and if there be found a balance
Jue from the plaintifff to the defendant, judgment shall be
rendered against the plaintifff for the amount thereof; but M
Exceptions,
such judgment shall be rendered against the plaintifffwhen the

PROCEDTjfiE CIVIL.

[tlf. XXXIÜ, CH. XXIV.

1098—§ 2346]
contract which was the subject of the suit shall have been
L. 1876, chap. '¿7,5 '^i assigned before the commencement of such action, nor for any
Jan. 13.
balance due any other person than the plaintifff in the action.
§ 2 346. A subpoena may be served by any officer, by read
Subprana,
ing it to the witness or by delivering a copy thereof to him.
Id. S 30.
§ 2347. Whenever it shall appear to the justice, that any
Attachment, may is person having been duly subpoenaed, shall have failed to attend
sue, when.
in conformity with subpoena, and the party in whose behalf he
was subpoenaed, or his agent, shall make oath that his testimony
is material, the justice shall issue an attachment to compel the
attendance of the witness: Provided, that no such attachment
Proviso.
shall issue, unless his mileage, and one day's attendance fees
Id. Í 31.
have been tendered him, or paid in advance.
§ 2348. Every such attachment shall be served and exe
Attachment, service cuted in the same manner as a warrant, and the fees for issu
ing, and serving the same, shall be paid by the person against
whom the same was issued, unless he shows to the satisfaction
of the justice, reasonable cause for his omission to attend, in
which case the costs shall be paid by the party suing out the
Costs, who to pay;
exception.
same.
Id. 4 32.
§ 2349. Every party in any civil suit pending before a
Depositions,
how
and whereto be taken. justice, may upon notice cause the deposition of any witness to
be taken by any officer authorized to take depositions in any
Id. i 33.
county in this Territory, where the said witness may be.
§ 2350. The justice shall allow every deposition taken,
Depositions,
how certified and returned according to the provisions of this act,
may
oe used; excepto be used on the trial of the cause in which it is taken, in all
cases where the same testimony given verbally could have been
received; but no such deposition shall be read unless it appear
to the justice that the witness whose deposition is offered is
dead, or resides out of the county, or is unable to attend on ac
Id. I 34.
count
of sickness
or infirmity.
§ 2351.
If either
party shall fail to appear, within one
Judgment by de hour after the time specified for the return of the process, or
fault.
after the hour of adjournment, the justice shall proceed to hear
the proofs of the party present, and render judgment thereon.
Id. ft 35.
§ 2352. In every action brought by virtue of this act, it
shall be lawful for either of the parties to the suit, or for the
Jury,
either
party
way demand.
attorney or agent or either of them, after issue joined, but be
fore the court shall proceed to inquire into the merits of the
cause, to demand of the court that their cause be tried by a
jury ; said jury to consist of six men possessing the same quali
fications as jurors in the district court, and upon such demand.
8
I
x
men
to
consti
tute, how empaneled. hcations as -i-"
íurors in tnetu
aisuicu
wu.,anv
— constable
.
Ow;ffor
present, or
the justice shall direct the sheriff or any C°D*\7Jtsble perif no officer be present, the justice may appoiu,
^ fol.
son to perform the duty, to whom he shall admim

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

1100—§ 2353]
lowing oath, or affirmation as the case may be: "You do sol
emnly swear (or affirm), before the Everliving God, that you
will perform the duties required of you according to the best
of your abilities, without partiality to either party." The person
so sworn shall write down the names of eighteen persons, be
ing inhabitants of the county, and possessing the necessary
qualifications for jurors; from the said list each party may
strike out alternately six names, and in case of the absence of
either party, or his failure or refusal to strike out as aforesaid,
the justice shall himself strike out six names, and shall there
upon issue a "venire facias" requiring the officer to summon
Venire facía», to is- the persons whose names remain in the above list to appear at
a time and place therein mentioned, to serve as jurors for the
trial of the cause to be therein named in said "venire facias?
-Provided, that if any of said jurors so summoned as aforesaid
shall not attend, or if there should be legal objections raised
to any of those who shall appear, it shall be the duty of the
officer to summon a sufficient number of talesmen to fill the de
ficiency. The jurors so taken shall take the following oath:
"You, and each of you do solemnly swear, (or affirm), that you
Juror, oath of.
will well and truly try the issue joined between A. B., plaintifff,
and C. D., defendant, and a true verdict give, according to law
and the evidence given in court, so help you God." And after
having been sworn they shall hear the evidence which shall be
delivered in public, in their presence; and to each witness on
any trial, the justice shall administer the following oath, toWitness, oath of.
wit: "You do solemnly swear (or affirm), that the evidence
you shall give in the case now pending between A. B., plaintifff,
and C. D., defendant, shall be truth, the whole truth, and noth
ing but the truth, so help you God." And after hearing the
evidence, the jury shall be kept together in some convenient
place until they agree upon a verdict, or shall be discharged
mverdict .nd judg- by the justice, and when the jurors shall agree upon a verdict
t}}ey shall deliver the same to the justice, who is required to
^.1876, chap. 27, s se; give judgment thereon, and to award execution as hereinafter
dt&&3&£&£: directed.
§ 2353. Whenever a justice shall be satisfied that ft jury,
to im.; exception. after having been kept together a reasonable time, cannot agree
nnloo» «! °7. he
discüarge them and issue a new venire,
ment
M Consent that the Íustice ma7 render i'nd«Id. i 37.
iurf»r23°f' i ^76ry P0rson who shall be duly summoned as a
^
¿is rl«f n f „n0t aPPear nor render a reasonable excuse for
Jnror,
penalty
for
default.
aerauIt> shall be subject to a fine not exceeding ten dollars.
cutLír'?3;, ,irP°n a11 judgments rendered by a justice, exeExeoution
, VSSMd fay such justice, after ten days shall have
when;
proviso.to i--u> . «Tr
cution ."I, dlng the day of trial. u^ess the plaintifff in exe*"« snail make an affidavit stating that he has good reason

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

1102—§ 2356;

Execution
i m m edlatelr
upon affidavit.

L. 1K76, chap. 27, 599;
jBn- I3Execution shall orException,
-TT-rsi
• «•

to believe, and verily does believe that the defendant in exe
cution, is about to remove his effects beyond the limits of the
county, or that he is about to convey his effects so as to de
fraud the plaintifff, or that he is about to secrete his property
so as to hinder the payment of said judgment and that unless
said
that he
lose ,,his debt;
...execution
, be justice
.issued
.. immediatelv
,
.
* execution
,. will
, • in
which
case the
shall
issue
upon the
making
of such affidavit at any time after the rendition of judgment
and before the expiration of the ten days as aforesaid: Provi
ded, that no execution shall issue against the body of any defendant in execution
E
lheexecuti°n shall order the officer to levy the
£ ¿) «> t j'
o rm_
debt or damages together with the interest thereon, and the
costs, upon the goods and chattels of the person against whom
execution shall be granted, his arms and accoutrements excePt«<t, and such other property as may be excepted by law: and
pay the money within thirty days from the date therof, to the

the same.
ment^"0"' "u6or^- justice
§ 235issuing
7. Before
any execution shall be delivered, the jus
tice shall state in his docket, and also on the back of the execu.
*10n *Jje amount of the debt, damages and costs separately; and
w. » «.
- the officer receiving such execution, shall endorse thereon the
of receiving
the execution
same.
o[Execution, renewal time
§ 2358.
If any
be not satisfied it may at the re
quest of the plaintifff, or his attorney be renewed from time to
time, by the justice issuing the same, endorsing thereon to
that effect; if any part of the execution has' been satisfied, the
endorsement of renewal shall express the sum due on the exe
cution : every such endorsement shall renew the execution in
full force for thirty days, and no longer, and an entry of such
endorsement with the date, shall be made in the docket of such
Id. Í 42.
§ 2359. The officer after taking the goods and chattels
justice.
Notice of eale sub into his custody by virtue of an execution, shall without delay
stance of.
give public notice by posting up not less than three advertise
ments, put up at different public places in the precinct where
the property is to be sold, of the time and place, when and
where the same will be exposed for sale; such notice shall de
scribe the goods and chattels so taken as aforesaid, and be put
Id. : 43.
up§at2360.
least tenAtdays
the day
the before
time and
placeof sosale.
'appointed, the officer
shall expose the goods and chattels to public vendue for cash,
Sale,
how
to
be
made.
to the highest bidder; and shall in all cases return the exeouTa7T_j
_ tion and have the money before the justice, at the time of mak
Execution,
return
of.
2361.return.
No officer shall directly or indirectly purchase
ing8 such
any goods or chattels at any sale made by him upon execution;
Officer,
purchase
by,
null and Told.
and every such purchase shall be absolutely null and void.
Id. f IB.

1104—§ 2362]

pbooedüee civil.

[tit. xxxin, oh. xxn.

§ 2362. If there be no property found, or if the goods and
Gar n i s h e o a, pro chattels are not sufficient to satisfy the execution, the officer
ceedings against.
shall upon the demand of the plaintifff or his attorney, summon
in writing as garnishees such persons as may be named to him
by the plaintifff or his attorney, to appear before the justice on
the return day of the execution to answer such interrogatories
as may be put to them touching their liabilities as garnishees;
and like proceedings shall be had therein before the justice to
!«; final judgment, and execution as in suits instituted by attach
ment in justices' courts.
§ 2363. The officer who shall hold any execution, and shall
Money to be receipt receive any money tendered to him, shall endorse the same on
ed for.
the execution and give the person paying the same a receipt
Id. } 47.
therefore.
§ 2364. Whenever any goods « ^SJSffi
Replevin,
when actlon
of may
be taken or obtained, the value of which ehaU not «je£ ^
brought.
dred dollars, an action of replevin may De UI""es
^e
recovson having a right to the immediate pos«
"
^
ery thereof ; and the damages sustained bv reason
Id. ! 4».
capture or detention as is hereinafter specified.
r Huhe.ve.
.
.. vol.i 1,. page 217,
on N.
V M.
M Rep.
Ret>.
Abren,
hffffb&jffacg; § 2:^65- Actions of replevin shall in all cases be comid. ¡ m.
■ menoed by a writ which shall be returnable in the same manner
required.1'1' ******

as a summons.
§ 2366. No writ of replevin shall issue unless the plaintiff
his agent or attorney, shall file an affidavit with the justice
stating that the goods and chattels are wrongfully detained by
the defendant and stating the value thereof, and that he has a
right to the possession thereof ; and every writ of replevin issued
right to the possession thereof
; andnnoshed
everyj»..»
1 a be
at tne
the rcost of
of the
without such affidavit shall
quashed at

Id. 5 Wplaintifff.
Martinez T.. Martinez, vol. 2, W« »■ f"
Lainy
vs. Bemuzon,
P»t»a»^.M.^
■ ^.^"^
Barruelvs.
Irwin, vol.
volvol.2,2, 2,page
1«w
Abren ve. Brown,
11. N. M. ttep.
eomra»„d„ha,
§ 2367. The writ of replevin shall command the officer to
Replevin, writ t„ m*X
o nn„n? ' lrected
__
to ca"se to be replevied to the plaintifff, the
Per»„ to .ppwu. $
ana chattels named in the affidavit required by the foredetnf '
and te summon the person who is charged with
of a víng ■
' to aPPear before the justice on the return day
saia writ, to answer the plaintifff for the unjust detention of
anv rm6i an<1 ? Sha11 be lawfHl for
officer to break open
co,,^,,,,,,
»„,.,,
' fteble or outhouse, or other building in which
fi* STV *■ concealed, to replevy the same, having first
M.-TBT
buü" 6 clel¡verance of the same, at the 'house, or other
icnug, or the place where the same is concealed.

1106—§ 23fi8j

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. XXIV.

diM8óí,;bond,°on'

§ 2368. Every officer before he makes deliverance to the
plaintifff of any goods or chattels taken by virtue of any writ
of replevin, shall take of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, in
the name, and for the benefit of the defendant, a bond with
sufficient security, in double the value of the goods and chat
tels replevied, which value shall be assessed by two or more
respectable persons whom the officer shall swear for that pur
pose; conditioned, that the plaintifff will prosecute the suit with
effect, and without delay, and make return of the property,
if the return thereof shall be adjudged, and pay all costs, and
damages which shall be awarded against him, and keep
Boud returnable harmless the officer in the execution of the writ, which bond
shall be returned with the writ; and if the plaintifff, his agent
with writ.
or
attorney shall fail or refuse to execute such bond within
Failure to execute, twenty-four
hours after having been notified by the officer of
effect of.
the taking of such goods and chattels, the officer shall return
such goods and chattels to the defendant; and if any officer
shall deliver any property taken by writ of replevin to the
Officer
liable
for
~l. 1876, chTp.
Uanmuw»!
when.z;, ¡ .12; plaintifff without taking such security, or shall take insufficient
Jun-13-'
' security, he shall be liable in damages to the defendant
Archibeque vs. Miera, vol. 1, page 419, N. M. Hep.
iu"í!m i-eturn!''"0''"1" §2369. On the return of any writ of replevin the sanie
proceedings shall be had as in other suits; and if the plaintifff
discontinue, suffer a non-suit, or if he should otherwise fail to
prosecute his suit to final judgment, it shall be the duty of the
justice to summon a jury as hereinbefore provided, to empanel
jur> 1., «sao» value, and swear the same, to inquire and assess, the value of the
goods and chattels replevied, together with the adequate dam
ages for the detention of the same ; or if on the trial of the
issue joined,'.the jury shall find for the defendant, the value of
such goods and chattels together with adequate damages for
the detention thereof, shall be assessed by said jury, and the
teSnnü'Xu'1'' *" justice shall render judgment in favor of defendant, for such
value and damages so found by the jury; but if the jury shall
find that the defendant did unlawfully detain such goods, and
"id. ¡ja:
that they were the property of the plaintifff, they shall assess
for such detention,
to 0™^.°" when adequate
§ 2 15 7 0.damages
The defendant
shall not commence a suit upon the
bond given by plaintifff, provided for in section 2308. until lie
shall have sued out an execution, and it shall be ascertained by
the return of said execution that the plaintifff has not U> the
county sufficient personal property whereon to levy and ma ra
lil. ! «.
the amount of such judgment, damages and costs.
§2371. The defendant may plead that he is not guilty of
Plea, i.f " lint iruilty the charge alleged, and his plea shall put in issue not unV l
w i
right of plaintifff to the property, but also the wrongful tau „
and (iai-land
detention
el al. thereof.
v». Hártela Hro*., vul. 'A pane 1, N. M. Hep.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

1108—§ 2372J
§ 2372. An attachment against the property of any debtor
Attachment may te
me, whon.
may be issued on the application of any creditor.
First—When the debtor has departed, or is about to depart
from the county, so as to hinder or delay his creditors.
Second—When the defendant is about to remove from the
Territory any of his property, with intent to defraud his cred
itors.
Third—Or when the defendant has assigned, disposed of, or
secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete any of his
property with the intent to defraud his creditors.
Fourth—When the defendant is not.a resident of the Ter
L. 1K7C, chap.27, §56;
Jan. 13.
ritory.
§ 2373. Before any attachment shall issue in any cause,
affida the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit, set
vitAttachment,
to set forth, what.
ting forth that the defendant is indebted to him in a sum to
be specified, and also shall state that the affirmant has good
reason to believe, and verily does believe in one or more of the
causes which according to the provisions of the preceding sec
tion, will entitle the plaintifff to sue by attachment: Provided,
however, that before any such attachment shall issue, the justice
shall take from the plaintifff a bond to the defendant, with two
or more sufficient securities in double the sum claimed, con
ditioned to pay the defendant all damages and costs he may
- sustain by reason thereof, if no judgment shall be recovered
Id. i 57.
against such defendant.
§ 2374. Every such attachment shall state the amount of
Attachment,
shall
the
debt sworn to in the plaintifffs affidavit, and shall command
■tate
of writ.what; command the sheriff or any constable of the county in which the justice
resides to attach so much of the goods and chattels of the
debtor, as will be sufficient to satisfy such debt; and safely
keep the same in order to satisfy any judgment that may he
recovered on such attachment, and to make return thereof to
the justice who issued the same, at the time thereon specified,
not less than five nor more than fifteen days from the date
Id. ! 58.
thereof.
such attachment
§2375. The officer to whom
whom such
attacuuc shall be
directed and delivered, shall execute the same as an ordinary
Attachment,
duties
of officer in.
summons, and shall attach, take into possession and safely keep
such [fet of the goods and chattels of the defendant as shall
be sufficient to satisfy the demand of the plaintifff. He shall
immediately make an inventory of the property seized, and shall
serve the said attachment and inventory upon the defendant
Service, how to be therein named, if he shall be found by reading said writ and
inventory to him, and leaving a true copy of the same with
him. But if said defendant shall not be found, then the officer
serving the writ shall leave a copy of said writ and inventory
certified by him, at the usual place of residence of the defend

1110—§ 2376]

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

jan'.i3,6,chap'27,!H'; an*'
^
defendant shall have no place of residence in
the county, where the goods and chattels are attached, such
copy and inventory shall be left with the person in whose pos
session said goods and chattels are found.
irtftaffffSST" , § 2376. No goods attached by an officer under the pro
vision of this act shall be removed by him, if a bond be given
to such officer by the person in whose possession the same may
be found, or the person claiming the same, in a penalty double
"<■ the sum claimed in the attachment, conditioned, that such
goods and chattels shall be produced to satisfy any execution
that may be issued upon any judgment which may be obtained
by the plaintifff upon such attachment ; and in case the property
be not produced as conditioned in the bond execution shall
id. 5 en.
issue against the property of the security.
^Attachment, he»rmK § 2:577. If such attachment shall be returned personally
served upon the defendant, the justice shall proceed to hear
~Id- f «E
and determine the cause, in the same manner as upon summons
returned personally served.
§ 2.'57 8. When a defendant cannot be summoned, and his
property or effects shall be attached, and he do not appear at
the return of the writ; the justice shall enter an order on his
docket, and shall issue the same to the sheriff or constable
directing him to give notice to the defendant by publication in
a newspaper, or by posting up advertisements in at least three
Notice, ™t»,uu,ceof. of the most public places in the county, that a writ has been
issued against him, and his property attached, and that unless
he appear before the justice at a time and place to be mentioned
in said advertisement, not less than twenty nor more than
"itCTo:
ninety days from the date thereof, judgment will be rendered
against him, and his property sold to pay the debt
^Notice, time rwinir- §237!). Such notice shall be set up or published at least
_J
fifteen days before the time at which the party is required to

of^pubifcitt11n,,lc<'

Id' ! *•
fn.iudKment
by de- appear.
§ 2:i80. When the defendant shall be notified as aforesaid
and shall not appear and answer, judgment by default shall he
id. t g
rendered, which may be proceeded on to final judgment in like
as in Attachments
ordinary actions.
Attachment, may he manner
§ 2381.
may be dissolved at any time before
delved, .hen »„d g^j judgmen^ on motion made ,)y the defendant. his agent or
attorney: if the defendant shall appear and plead to the action.
Bond, condition, of. and give bond to the plaintifff with good and sufficient security.
to be approved by the justice, in double the value of the
property, effects and credits attached, conditioned that sucli
property, effects and credits shall be forthcoming and abide
the judgment which shall be rendered in the case.
Id. I 65.
§ 2382. When an attachment shall be dissolved, all pro
ceedings
touching the property and effects attached, and ga ofAttachment,
diwolutiuu. effect

PEOCEDUBE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, OH. XXIV.

1112—§ 2383J
l, iii76,chap.27,i6ii; nishees summoned shall be vacated; and the suit proceed as if
it had been commenced by summons only.
mmmZlfi^&n^ § 2383. When any plaintifff, his agent or attorney shall
make oath (or affirmation) that he has good reason to believe,
and verily does believe that any person is indebted to, or has
property, (describing the same as nearly as may be), in his
possession belonging to the defendant in attachment, and if the
officer making service of sucli writ or attachment cannot come
at the property of the defendant in possession of such person,
the said officer shall summon such garnishee by leaving witli
him a copy of such writ of attachment, and a copy of the affi
davit together with a notice in writing to such garnishee, to
appear before the justice within five days; who shall give at
tendance accordingly, and make answer under oath or affirma
tion, to all questions that may be put to him touching the pro
perty or credits of the defendant in his possession ; and from
iam*h« account- fa day of guch Beryice such garnishee shall stand accountable
to the plaintifff in attachment, for the amount of monies, proid. ¡ «7.
- perty and credits in his hands, or due from him to the said de
fendant in attachment
«¿¡^^•¿ESt*" § 2384. The suit instituted against such garnishee shall
be continued without trial or decision, until the action against
such defendant in attachment shall be determined ; and if in
such action nothing shall be found due from the defendant to
Costs, how to be fts- the plaintifff, then the garnishee shall recover costs against the
plaintifff; or if in such suit so instituted against the garnishee
the plaintifff shall be non-Buited, his suit discontinued, or judg
ment be had against him, the said garnishee shall recover costs;
and if the plaintifff shall recover judgment against the defend
ant in such attachment, and the garnishee shall deliver up to
the officer before judgment is had against him, all the goods,
chattels and other property of such defendant, in his possession,
and shall also pay over to the said justice all monies due from
him to the said defendant, then the costs which shall have ac
crued on such suit against the garnishee shall be paid out o
the proceeds of the property attached belonging to the defend
ant; but if the garnishee shall not appear, or if appearing shall
refuse truly to confess the matter alleged, and the plaintifff on
trial shall recover judgment, the said garnishee shall pay the
costs
"nst
§ 2385. After the final determination of the suit■ agj
<4 fi rton sllOW
i b h e I'HUljf.
p, num
inous
the defendant, the justice shall at the request of ™e^rn¡shee
his agent or attorney, issue a summons !«al.nst ™ ghow cause
m. 5 «9commanding him to appear before the justicwhy a judgment should not be rendered against him.
^
§
2
38
6.
Upon
the
return
of
the
writ
of
attad
mem,
^
^
JiulHmt'iit
(tarcri,
wheu.to Vhí reti- plaintifff shall make sufficient proof of the debt au ;monies,
fendant, and also of the goods and chattels, rig >

[tit. XXXIII, OH. XXIV.
credits and effects in the hands of the garnishee, the said jus
tice shall at the time provided by this act give judgment thereon
for said plaintifff, and award execution thereon either against
the effects of the defendant or against the garnishee, as the
case may require: Provided, the amount proved by any cred
itor does not exceed the sum recoverable before a justice of the
peace in other cases: Provided also, that if the plaintifff shall
fail in proving his demand against the defendant, or in proving
Judgment for costs. the goods, chattels, rights, credits, monies or effects in the
hands of any garnishee, judgment shall go against him for the
L. 1S76,
Jbij.
18. chap. 27, J 7 costs; and the justice shall issue an execution therefore.
(jranuBhee,
failure to § 2387. If any person summoned as garnishee as provided
answer;
penalty.
for in this section, shall fail or refuse to appear before the said
justice at the time specified in the summons served upon him.
said justice may upon the application of the plaintifff, his agent
or attorney, forthwith, issue an attachment directed to the pro
per officer commanding him forthwith to bring the body of said
Id. ¡ 71.
garnishee before him, to make answer as required above.
§ 23!{f{. If a garnishee before a justice shall refuse to make
refu- full answer to all such questions touching the matter iif con
ibllinmishee,
to answer; effect.
troversy as may be put to him by said justice, the justice shall
render judgment against the garnishee in favor of the plaintifff
in attachment, for the full amount which may be proven in the
trial of the suit, to be due from the defendant to the said plain
tiff; and execution may issue against the defendant in the suit
and the garnishee jointly, but no greater amount shall be col
Amount, limit of. lected from the garnishee than may be necessary to satisfy the
demands of the plaintifff and costs of suit, after having first ad
vertised and sold all the property of the defendant attached by
virtue of the writ of attachment, and applied the same to the
Id. } 72.
satisfaction of the judgment in favor of the plaintifff.
§ 23Ü9. Corporations may be proceeded against as gar
Garnishees,
tions
liable as.corpora nishees in the same manner and with like effect as individuals
under the provisions of this act, and the rules of law regulating
Id. 5 73.
proceedings against corporations.
§ 2390. Any person aggrieved by any judgment rendered
Appeal- how to be by any justice, may appeal by himself, his agent or attorney W
taken.
the district court of the county where the same was rendered:
Provided, however, that no appeal shall be allowed unless the
party appealing shall file a bond to the adverse party, in a sum
Uoud required.
sufficient to secure such judgment and costs, with one or more
idTHi.
securities to be approved by the justice.
Orr. vk. Hopkins, vol. 2, page 272, W. C. Rep.
S 2 :i'J 1 . Upon an appeal being made according to the^fore
A p p e a 1 suapemlf
proceedings
on Judg going section, the justice shall allow the same, and maKe
ment.

1 U6-§ 2392 j

^cedcre «tu.

JmjOTMj».

°fth8^T±nI.vo,1,PWmN.M.BeP.
Secou y». Loronx, vol. l, paw »■ »■ —
,
8 2392. On or before the first day of the next term oftte
Transcript ol docket
to be filed.
di» court, for the county, the ^
^ maf"
of the clerk of said court a fcanscnpt of ^
rehis docket relating to the case, together with all the papers
Id. t 76.
latine to the suit.
& 9 *q -5 The case upon such appeal shall be tried ds now,
Appeal trial on how § ¿ ¡j»í$. 1116 Case upo
ri
^
d fr^l
,o be conducted.
Bame rules shall govern the district coran
TCTHT- - that are prescribed for the government of justices courts.
Arehibeque vs.
N.. M.
Arohibique
vb. Miera, yol.
vol. J,1, page 160,
loo, n.
m Rep.
.. , .
§ 2394-. The clerk of the district court shall docket such
o£;Appeals
who shalldocketing
be plidn- appeals, on or before the second day of the term, and the plainTarns
~ tiff in the court below shall be plaintifff in the district court.
tifl.
Appeal*, judgment* § 2395. In all eases of appeal from a justice's court, if the
ren ere< . judgment of the justice be affirmed, or if on the trial anew in
the district court, judgment be against the appellant such
judgment shall be rendered against him, and his sureties on
Id. j 7».
appeal
bond. Every justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction
JfíSS^/T^f§ 2896.
x2>—^
H*7 ln criminal eases throughout the county in which lie was
*
elected and where he shall reside, and shall be a conservator of
C^ - I "7
tlle Pence therein. He is authorized and required, on view or
complaint made on oath or affirmation, to cause any person
-, . ,
charged with the commission of a crime or breach of the law,
ticrln,;Mi.,
to be brought before him or some other justice of the peace,
and shall inquire into the complaint, and try the same, if within
tne jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, as defined in this act,
and either commit to jail, discharge or recognize such person.
„ appear before the district court, as the case may require.
"■"•<""£lial! also recognize the witnesses introduced on behalf of
the .territory, whose testimony mav be necessary to the farther
.¿SSS—
Prosecution of the charge, to appear at the same time as the
defendant, to-v.it: on the first day of the next term before the
district court of his county, and shall file said recognizances
ToTm
and all papers pertaining to the cause with the clerk of the dis
trict court, on or before the first day of the next term thereof.
Tafoya.
2, pageof191.assault
N. M. Rep.and battery or affray, the
iSBSt «-»*«». § Icrntory
2397. v». In
allvol.
cases
1 ° v>='1 as in other criminal cases, and
same
proceedings
shalla be
had, as
in other
relating to.
we justice,
whenever
person
shall
be brought before him.
Trr5j
■ ar£ecl wl*n tlie commission of either of the crimes mentioned
i tins section, shall upon hearing the charge, discharge, com" "r rec°gi»ze the person as the case may require,
g 2398. Whenever any person shall make oath or affirmastating amongst other things, that the person making such

1118

g 2399 ]

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

I" TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIY.

~ complaint has just cause to fear, and does fear, that another
will beat, wound or kill him or her or his or her ward, child or
children, or will commit some other act of personal violence
upon him or her or them, or will maliciously destroy his or her
property, it shall be the duty of the justice, to whom such
complaint is made as aforesaid, to issue his warrant, command
ing the officer to arrest and bring before him the person com
plained of. to answer such complaint: and upon the return of
the warrant with the person in custody, it shall be the duty of
the justice to examine into the truth of such complaint, and if
upon such examination he shall be of opinion that there was
just cause therefore, he shall order the person complained of, to
enter into recognizance with good and sufficient securities, in
required; a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars, nor less than one
Bond t¡ condition,. ' hundred dollars, conditioned, that lie or they shall keep the
amonnt
peace and be of good behavior generally, and especially to the
person complaining, for the period of six months thereafter,
and in default of such recognizance the justice shall commit
the person or persons so complained of, to the jail of the county,
L. lR76,ohap. 27,5 82 there to remain until discharged by due course of law.
Jan. 13.
§ 239!). If the person complained of be committed for not
Discharged if bond giving bond, the justice of the peace may discharge him upon
is given.
s í'janíafisM.0 Trf' 8nid bond being given.
°n5&-%£&% § 2400. Any person who, in the presence of a justice of
«
the peace, shall assault or threaten to assault another, or to
commit an offense against his person or property, may lie re1 '•
~ quired by such justice to give security to keep "the peace as
provided.
MirttnlSSriofeout! above
§ 2401.
A person who has given bond to keep the peace
must appear on the first day of the next term of, the district
court ; and if the complainant appear, and the defendant do not
appear, the district court may forfeit the bond and order scire
facias to issue against the parties on the bond; and if the
Id- $ *■
~ defendant fail to come in and answer the scire facias, judg
ment shall be final against the parties on said bond.
§ 2402. If neither the complainant nor defendant appear,
B o n d discharged, the district court must discharge the bond, at the costs of the
when.
defendant; but if both parties appear, the court may hear their
proofs and allegations, and may either discharge the bond or
require a new one for a time not exceeding six months, and
award the costs against either the complainant or defendant,
Id. 1 8.
as §justice
2403.mayItrequire.
shall be the duty of every justice of the peace,
Docket to be kept. in criminal cases to keep a docket of his proceedings, as in
, civil cases; and when the party accused shall be recognized.
±
deliver a transcript of such proceedings to the clerk of the disvit
to cler!
cu-rk. to deli ucnvri d muj.ii'm^ ~~
1
verTranscript,
j¿'Í376,ch"p'2'u'^ trict court, without unnecessary delay

PBOOEDUBE CIVIL.

| TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

1120—§ 2404]
i™m-,r«V™."rr""t to

§ 2404. It shall be lawful for any judge or justice of the
peace, upon complaint made before him, upon oath or affirma
tion, that a larceny has been committed, and that the person
swearing or affirming does verily believe that the stolen goods
or other property is concealed in any dwelling house, outhouse,
garden, yard or other place or places, to issue a warrant under
his hand commanding every such dwelling house or place to
be searched, and if any of the goods described in any sucli
hrfdr'wLu*.'11"' to '"' warrant be found therein, then that the said goods be seized
and brought before the judge or justice who issued said warrant;
if upon the examination of witnesses before said judge, or
justice of the peace, it shall be determined by such judge or
justice of the peace, that the goods so brought before him, have
been stolen, such judge or justice shall order the sheriff of
such county to keep such goods until the claimant's right be
legally ascertained. But in case the judge or justice of the
\iiu!u'' tohe™mg peace, shall upon such examination as aforesaid, determine
,
that such goods so seized have not been stolen, then the goods
j«.u!6'chap' 27,5 841 shall be immediately restored to the person from whose posses
they wereA taken.
m£?Sí,e¿f¿£!£d: sion
§ 2405.
justice of the peace shall award- a change of
*dvenue in any cause or proceeding, pending before him, for any
,

of First—When
the following causes:
the justice is interested, prejudiced or related
to Second—When
either party.
the opposite party has an undue influence
over
the mind of the
of theofpeace.
Third—When
the justice
inhabitants
the precinct in which the
cause or proceeding may be brought or pending, are preju

against the applicant.
~l:íS«, ^.aSTsT; diced
Fourth—When
the opposite party has an unulue influence
the inhabitants
of the
pSu^MffilSfc over
§ 240CAl»y Party
to «precinct
cause pending before a justice of
rabMnee „f.
' the peace, may present to said justice a petition setting tortn
the cause of his application for a change of venue, and shall
annex thereto an affidavit to the truth of the petition, alleging
that lie has just cause to believe, and does believe, that he can
not have a fair trial on account of' the causes alleged, which
petition and affidavit shall be supported by the oath of at least
two witnesses of good character and known to the court; who
»££tob!de£!£rD<' sha11 l)€ Presented by the party on making his application, and
.i»,',' S6'
'7' !*; tlle cause» Ilot being proven in conformity with the provisions
of this section, no change of venue shall be granted.
§ 2407. Upon such application being made, the justice
JsZ+Ui.
upon sucn
pvs aproceed
Chungowhen
of venue,
■• parties or~---o
u.*;*
shall
in the presence
of- •both
their attorneys,
attorney
hfariuK;
ullowed.
to hear and try the same, and if good cause su.
^^
therefore, shall award a change of venue to a p
.ilied
some other precinct in his county, where the cause
V

„ m«TT
PROCEDURE CIVIL.

i" tit. xxxiii, OH. XXIV.
I «*

1122—§ 2408]
of does not exist, as convenient as may be to all the parties:
L. 1H7G, cliap. í 8' Provided, that each party shall have the right to one change
Jan. IS
of venue and no more, in said cause.
ttuwxiptSnd im™S § 2+08. Upon the awarding of such change of venue, the
to be transmuted. justice of the peace ordering the same, shall immediately make
out a full transcript of the proceedings in the cause, including
the petition and affidavit, and order of removal, and transmit
the same by the constable of his township, duly certified, to
gether with all the original papers filed in the cause,, to the
justice of the peace to which the removal was ordered; and the
justice of the peace to which such cause is certified shall file
M. i W.
the same, and the cause shall be docketed, proceeded in and
determined, as if it had originated before him.
chango ^ ofjemie, § 24-09. All the costs and expenses attending any such
change of venue shall be taxed and paid as other costs in the
cimnge
w.
¡ 89. of vomie, sui§2410. If any justice of the peace fail to transmitthe tranabseuce,orof °ta!OIlUou"
imperii not script
- . andi papers in
. any cause, the
í venue whereoft lias
1 1been
SS!?
changed, or if said papers be sent and lost, such loss or failure
shall not operate as a discontinuance of such cause; but at the
Copie»«dmiMfbie. next term of the justice court may be filed, or if lost, copies of
" id.~¡ «i.—
" the original may be furnished and filed, and the cause shall pro
ceed as if no such failure or loss had happened.
Archives sad docu- S 241 1. If any justice of the peace on retiring from office
mentis
failure to for.
do- shall
. °., fall
... or refuse
. • to
• deliver
,
* _.
, °
i per
ar
liverover;penalty
the archives
and. documents
taining to his office, to his successor, after such successor has
duly qualified as required by law, he shall, on conviction, he
liable to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars, and to be
larra:
imprisoned until he shall deliver such archives and documents
to the justice who may be entitled to the same.
£¡¡¡¡¡¿¡j™ to be f~ § 2412. Hereafter, civil suits before a justice of the peace
mlCt*t'/./t 5 may oe brought and prosecuted in the precinct where the plain
ly * ' tiff or defendant, or some one of them, if there be more than
7
one of either, resides, or in the precinct where the contract «as
~C. linn, chnS. io, ¡Ti made, or is to be performed, or where the cause of action origi- 8 24.13. If the defendant has no permanent residence
nated.
within
this Territory,
or shall attempt
m>
to abscond or evade the
tne
■ lias
1
tin
§ 2413.
If the defendant
i:edSuitIn where
ea»e ofcommenabscond service of process, in any manner, then suit may be commenced
Inn defendant.
in any precinct of the Territory where the defendant may be
«VKr.
§ 241 4. In all appeals taken from the sentences of justices
I.. lH7Í;,cíinp.27, 6«1;
Jan. 13.
found.
of the peace, the appellant shall cause to be filed in the office
of the clerk of the district court a certified transcript of the record of the proceedings had before the justice of the peace.
¡ m.
together with the original oath, recognizance and other original
papers in the case, on or before the return day of the appeal.

1124—§ 2415 J

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[tit. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

§ 241 5. When an appeal shall be taken and granted from
any justice of the peace, it shall be legal for such justice of the
Appeals,
witnesses
m„y 1» summoned, peace to issue summons for witnesses that may be required by
when.
any of the contending parties, for their appearance before the
court to which the appeal is taken, which summons shall contain the ,names , of all the witnesses required
byJ the party
Jon. 13.
*
r ' mak—L. lS76,chap.a7,{lS
Ian. 13.
ing§ the
demand.
2416.
Every person who shall be summoned as provided
in
the
foregoing
section, shall attend in conformity with man
Summons, eftect ot.
date, in the same manner as if the summons had been issued
by the clerk of the court to which the appeal is taken,
ito § 2417. No justice of the peace of the respective counties
Court to bo hold in of this Territory shall try any cause, nor hold his court out of
product; peually
his respective precinct, and the justice who shall violate the
violation.
provisions of this section, shall be deemed guilty of a misde
meanor as involuntary neglect of his duties; and shall be tried
on indictment before the district court, according to the proM'

visions ot
of sections
sections ü«¿
502 to 514.
visions
, t
§2418. AH canses that said
belond the limits of their precinct b^J» "™ their suits, as
the parties shall have the right to commen e t
Xl^So^'^L. ornee, and shall
cause, shall after conviction uo
pay all damages caused to the parties.
Jurisdiction not ai- § 241 0. The two preceding sections, shall in no wise effect
the co-extensive jurisdiction of the justice of the peace in the
~w7T«C
county in which they are olected, such jurisdiction being in

_
Causes tried
beyond
-»
precinct
limits
null
nud void.
Rights ol parties*.___
id. j ae.

force according to law.
'¿i'JO substituted
and omitted.]
i [Sec.
2421.
An action
for forcible entry or unlawful detainer
aSf'tpS'SJS!
2421.
An action
..„•,,.,,• before
. . any justice
Seeu,ed,when.
of,8real
property
may bej\,rprosecuted
iustice of the
peace w the precinct where the property is situated, in the
First—When
following
cases: the defendant has by force, intimidation,
fraud or stealth, entered upon the land and tenements of an
other
and detains the
same. or■ tenant holds over after the termi
Second—When
a lessee,
nation or contrary to the terms of his lease or tenancy.
Third—When the tenant fails to pay the rent at the time
Fourth—When
the defendant continues in possession after
stipulated
for payment.
a sale by foreclosure of mortgage, or on execution, unless he
claims by a title paramount to the mortgage by virtue of which
'ale was made, or by title derived from the purchaser at
" Id. i 101."

,
,
the sale.
., ^
Robert,
vs. Tmjillo,
■ 10u' #9't*iiep.
Romero etal.
vs. (ionzoiea,
vol. v«l
1, page
"

1126—§ 2422]

PROCEDÜRK CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

tivAecm»°'bmKMe"1*" have
§ 2422.
been plaintifff
The legalifrepresentatives
alive may bring
of thethis
person
suitwho
after
might
his
1876.13. chap. 27, ¡ 068111.
rlparli
102;L.Jan.
Notice required.
§ 2423. Before suit can be brought in any, except the first
of the above classes, three days' notice to quit must be given in
id. i in).
writing to the defendant.
^complaint under § 2424. The complaint of the plaintifff must be made upon
id. t km.
oath.
Sanchez vb. Luna, vol. 1, page 238, N. M. Rep.
iuSad),S^rTChfci§ 2425. If there be no justice of the peace in the precinct
"hen' where the premises are situated able or qualified by law to act,
suit may be brought before some justice of the peace, in any
adjoining precinct. Suits of this nature shall be governed by
id. i ios.
" the same rules governing other cases before justices of the
peace, except as herein modified.
pie^ifi™rtfmec!inm§ 2426. The time for appearance and pleading must he
not less than three nor more than ten days from the time the
i íus.^
notice is served on the defendant.
o Adjournment, limit § 2427. No adjournment shall be made for more than ten
id. 8 an
days, nor to any other place except by consent of parties.
h/mSSE1, how to § 2428. If the defendant is found guilty, judgment shall
be entered against him for damages, and that he be removed
from the premises, and that the plaintifff be put in possession
thereof; and warrant of removal shall issue accordingly to which
ho'ÍÜX'ierted00*'*' sna^
added a clause commanding the officer to levy the
id. ¡ ion.
damages and costs as in ordinary cases.
vested.' to ** to" § 2429. The question of the title cannot be investigated
in this action, nor boundaries of land, and nothing herein con
tained shall prevent a party from suing for a trespass, or in
ejectment, or from testing the right of property in any other
manner.
Action, how limited.
§
An act¡on of tnif, k¡n(1 CMmot be brought in COI1TdTTiibT
nection with any other, nor can it be made the subject of set
off.
ecme^'C.mV1- §
The warrant for removal can be executed only in
id. ¡ üT
the day time.
§ 243 2- Any person who may be lawfully and peaceably
in the possession of any land, and shall have cultivated, occu
pied or used the same, or any part thereof, in any one year,
shall not be deemed or held, to have abandoned the same when
absent therefrom, unless he fails to re-enter the same in good
faith on or before the fifteenth day of April next following
the last year in which he cultivated, occupied or used the same,
unto the jiurpose of occupying, cultivating or using the same
or some part thereof from year to year; and any person who

PROCEDURE CÍVlL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

may make an adverse entry to him during such time, (except
Adverse entry un lessees after the expiration of their term and persons whose
lawful.
permission he has to use, occupy or cultivate the same or any
part thereof, and after such permission expires), shall be
chap. 47Til deemed guilty of forcible entry and unlawful detainer and sub
ject to the laws governing the same.
Appeal., how lo na § 2433. An appeal shall be allowed to the district court
in all such cases, to be taken in the same manner as appeals
jC\
are required to be taken from the decisions of justices of the
V.
peace, except that the appeal shall be taken on the same day
imnii, effect of.
that the judgment or decision is rendered, and the bond shall
"L.TwiCchiip. 27, i operate as a supersedeas to the execution for damages and
costs, and also to the warrant of removal.
ILS, (lli^i
Tipton «. Cordova vol ygjgtffigT
Romero vs. Gonzales, voi. i, v-»« -»i
, «
K ,434. The district court on the trial of «BgJ *J
Appeals, procedure
prLed de novo, and may assess f-ff^^SJ^
on.
The time of final judgment aga^st
)rincipalfor
B„nu, «.can.» ü- curity in the appeal bond, shall be.liable
£&
" the
of removal
damages
or so
restitution
assessed;asand
the said
case court
may require.
may
of removal or resuiuu"" »» -—
.i . j:„j.„i«f rwnrtL 111
§ 2435. On appeals being taken to £*?f£fe.
Appeal*.
any action of forcible entry and unlawfuldetame
tiff recovers judgment the damages ^^^ent by the
DumBgeH, how to be value
of the rents due,up, to; the ren
- ¿ & accrued
nr«sew>e<l.

if
an and judgment for plaintifff be thei
court
,, SJla11
have the riglit to recover further damages at doMe
me actual value of the rents of the property from the time of
wie rendition of judgment in the district court to the time of
delivery of possession to him, and shall have the right to
sue tor the same on the appeal or supersedeas bond given in
me district court, which shall be fixed at a sum sufficient to
cover such last mentioned damages, as also all damages and
judgments rendered in the district court, which said bond shall
^ contain a condition that the defendant appealing or taking a
t«r,.re.ch""-4-52; ?'"tof e«or will pay all such judgment and damages if the
Bonbon appeal,

judgment
district
be affirmed.
gi, _+.)().of the
/-i
, court
un appeals
taken from a judgment of a justice ofI
the peace, the bond shall be in sufficent sum to cover all dam
ages and judgment recovered in the justice of the peace court,
is also all damages and judgment that may be rendered and
recovered in the district court. And the district court may, on
motion, require an additional bond to be given in any such

1130—§ 2437]

1>K0CEDÜRE CtVtL.

[TtT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

l."mm.i* chap. Cí 8; case, and should the appellant fail to give such bond when reMarch
quired by the district court, within the time that may be re
quired, then the said appeal shall be dismissed and the judg
ment below affirmed, and additional damages in accordance
with this act, assessed, and judgment, execution, and a writ of
possession then given by the district court
Process
,
who
may
§ 2437. All processes or executions issuing under and hy
execute.
of this .act may
by*/ anyJ sheriff or constable
ij. Join, map. ii, I virtue
.
. * be executed
,
in; .i»n. is.
of the county in which the action is commenced.
JtfalcM ^und"': § 2438. The right of a landlord shall not be affected by
^id^TB
*'le un(lei'leasiug of his tenant.
JX°,«!^etacer-/ § 2439. When a lessee has been induced to take alease
^by means of force, fraud or intimidation, he shall be permitted
"fiiTTuC
" to plead a paramount title in himself, an outstanding title, or
the want of title in the lessor.
m^,K¿L""u'r"n"í § 2440. In all cases before a justice of the peace, in which
-pjjjjj
judgment shall be rendered against any party, either party
may take his appeal to the district court.
v
Arehibeque vs. Miera, vol. 1, page 100, N. M. Rep.
wil™"™l-<&V" % 2441. Upon the party producing at the office of the jus
tice of the peace, within ten days after the rendition of the
judgment good and sufficient security, and offering to make
the bond required, and the securities consenting to become se• curity on the appeal, it shall be the duty of the justice to make
out a bond, and present it to the party, his agent or attorney,
and the securities to sign, and upon the same being signed, the
justice shall suspend all further proceedings in the cause, and
I
immediately make out a true and perfect transcript of the case
from his docket, and transmit it together with all the papers in
Id. } US.
the cause, to the clerk of the district court
Orr vb. Hopkinw, vol. 2, page Ti'l. W. (". Rep.
Becoti vs. Leroux, vol. 1, page 38», N. M. Rep.
§ 2442. Whenever judgment shall be rendered by a jus
tice of the peace, and from any cause whatever, either party
shall be prevented or shall be unable to appeal within ten days,
and he shall believe that injustice has been done him in the
trial, if any was had, and in the judgment, he shall make out
his petition in writing to the district judge, within thirty days
from the rendition of the judgment setting forth the circum
stances of the trial, as much as shall be necessary, and the rea
sons why he was unable, or was prevented from appealing in
the ordinary way, and thnt the judgment is unjust, and setting
forth the facts, upon which such injustice shall be charged, and
upon said petition being sworn to by the party, his agent or at
torney, it may be presented to the district judge, and if tM
judge shall be of the opinion that it sufficiently conforms to the
provisions of this section, he shall endorse his order thereon,

1132—§ 2443J

procedure civil.

[tit. xxxiii, ch. xxiv.

that the clerk take from the petitioner, his agent or attorney,
such bond to the adverse party, with security, as the judge shall
deem proper, and that upon such bond being made, the clerk
issue certiorari to the justice to forthwith send up the full
transcript together with the papers in the cause. The clerk
^summons t o ¡ssne shall also issue a summons notifying the adverse party that an
~l7ik7i¡, ch»p. 27, s appeal has been taken, and citing him to appear at the next
im; jmj. is.
term 0f
district court, to answer to the same.
Territory tu. Valdez, vul. 1. page 533, N. M. Rep.
§ 2443. All causes removed into the district court, in pur
Trinis, de tonovo;
ameudmeuts
be al suance of the foregoiig sections shall be tried de noro, and the
'
lowed.
court shall allow DO
all amendments which may be necessary
in
furtherance of justice, in all cases appealed by petition or
Id. [ 120.
certiorari, or in the ordinary mode.
§ 2444. Any justice of the peace who shall neglect or re
Certiorari, neglect to fuse to send up the transcript and papers, and suspend all far
obey; penalty.
ther proceedings, upon being served with a certiorari, may be
proceeded against by attachment as in cases of contempt
Id. S 121.
ii^Xredto'ee!'1"" § 2445. All justices of the peace of this Territory are here~.wTTiñ:

by declared to be magistrates.
§ 2446. Justices of the peace of this Territory shall be and
Power to administer are hereby empowered to administer oaths and affidavits and
oathe.
take depositions ; and all affidavits and depositions taken before
a duly acting and commissioned justice of the peace in aceord■ ance with law, and properly attested by him, shall be entitled to
Iri. J 123.
full faith and credit.
§ 2447. The following forms are prescribed for the use of
justices of the peace in the actions mentioned, and shall be
Forms.
used by them in all such cases:
IN FORCIBLE ENTRIES AND DETAINERS.
COMPLAINT.
.
.
cor— * .ore a B. ) Before E. F., justice of the peace in and
'
! "■' ™r' vs. \ precinct, in ... . county.
C.
^- XJ.
D.„ j)A' B., plaintifff in the above entitled cause, complains
,mH
and says, that heretofore, to-wit: On the ... dav of . .. A.
Inwftii' '' "í-í, , COUnty of • • •' he w«s lawfully possessed (or
awfully entitled to the possession \ of a certain tract of land.
LlzZ \°Ttaln dement, etc.), situated in said county, known,
o, íf„
? described as follows: (here describe the land
lawfnH
Wlth reasonable certainty), and being so thereof
' : i "r P0^^1' (°r 'awfully entitled to possession) as aforethe „ * SR'i defení,a"t. C. D., on the day and year, and at
'unty aforesaid, unlawfully and with (orce ' according to

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

1134—§ 2447 ]
5 2147, CONTINUED.

the facts), entered into and upon the said tract or parcel of
land (or tenements), and detained and held the possession
thereof, and such detains and holds the possession thereof,
against the plaintifff. Wherefore the said plaintifff says that the
said defendant is guilty of forcible entry and detainer, contrary
to the form of the statute in such case made and provided.
(Signed.)
A. B
Territory of New Mexico, )
County
j that the said complaint hy him
A. B.,ofbeing duly sworn, says
subscribed, and the matters therein contained are true, and
further saith not.
A. B
Sworn to and subscribed before me this ... day of
A. D. 18..
E. F

Justice of the Peace.,

SUMMONS.
Thf Territory of New Mexico, To the sheriff (or constable)
in forci
bleSummoDK,
entry and detainer.
of You
the county
of commanded
, Greeting:
are hereby
to summon C. D., of the county
°»
, to appear before the undersigned, justice of the
peace within and for the said county at . . . , in said county,
on the . . . day of
, at the hour of . . . o'clock in the
forenoon of said day, then and there to answer and defend
against the complaint of A. B., of forcible entry and detainer
(or of an unlawful detainer), made by the said C. D. upon the
lands of the said A. B., hereto annexed will more fully ap
pear; and have you then and there this precept, with the re
turn
of your
proceedings
Given
under
my hand, thereon.
as such justice of the peace, this • ■ •
day of

Affidavit, in attach
ment.

, in the year of our Lord, 18
E. F
Justice of the Peace.

ATTACHMENT.
affidavit.
A. B., being duly sworn say. that

debted

note (or open book account etc as the ~£¡¿L due and
the said C D. to A. B., on which there now And
^^
this ^
affiant
the
saidthe
V. said
V. tosum
A. x>-, , "as—T
" stated.
, . t
unpaid
above
^ (,oes
further, states, that he has eood reason
to
-TlLtSTerriS
believe that said defendant is not an inhabitant
L.
1876,
chap.
27,
i
131; Jan. 13.

1136-§ 2447] o{ New Mexicoprocedure
(or so conceals
civil. himself,
[tit.
or any
tm
other
os. ofxtít.
the

$ 2W7, CONTINUED.

Ol IICVY -WJ-OAl^v, ^
causes rprovided for by law).
A. B
•■ ■ .
Sworn to and subscribed before me this ..... day

Jurat.
,18..
Justice of the Peace.
Boml, Inattachment.

BOND.
Knqw all men By T¡JESE pRE8ENT8) that we
as prjn.
cipal, and
, as securities, are held and firmly bound to
the Territory of New Mexico, in the sum of .... dollars for
the payment of which we bind ourselves, and our heirs, execu
tors and administrators firmly by these presents.
Sealed with our seals, and dated this .... day of . . . ., 18. ..
The condition of the above obligation is such, that whereas
. . . . , as plaintifff, is about to institute a suit before ..... a jus
tice of the peace within and for .... precinct, in .... county,
by attachment against . . . . , as defendant, returnable on the
.... day of . . . . , 18 . . , for the sum of .... dollars and —
cents.
Now if the plaintifff shall prosecute his action without delay,
and with effect, and shall pay and refund all sums of money
that may be adjudged to be refunded to the said defendant, or
found to have been received by the said plaintifff, and not justly
due him, and moreover shall pay all damages which may ac
crue to
, said defendant, or any garnishee by reason of
this attachment or any process or proceeding in said suit or
by reason of any judgment or process thereon, then this obli
gation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force.
Approved by me this .... day of ..... 18. ..
Justice of the Peace.
WRIT.

•*,!..**«», TebbÍtort of New Memo County of
f
The Territory of New Mexico to the constable of

pre

cinct, in the county of
Greeting:
^ You are commanded to attach
, all and singular, his
goods and chattels, monies, credits and effects, or so much
tnereot as shall be sufficient to satisfy the sum of ... . dollars,
with interest, and costs of suit in whosesoever hands or possession
me same may be found in your township, so that he be and
appear before me
, a justice of the peace within and for
said precinct and county, at my office in said precinct, on the
• • . . day of
, 18 . . , to answer .... of a plea of
' a that you summon the said
to appear before me, the
1876,13.chup. -2Á, 5
121;L. .lull.

1138 § 2447]
i «47, oem-rmuKD.

rROCEDÜRE CIVIL.

[tit. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

said justice of the peace, at the time and place aforesaid, to
answer the action of the said plaintifff. And also that you sum
mon as garnishees, all such persons found in your precinct as
may be directed by the plaintifff, or his agent, to appear before
me, the said justice, at the time and place aforesaid, to answer
such interrogatories as the said justice may propound, and have
you there this writ
Witness my hand this .... day of
, 18 . .
, J. P.
Summons as garnishees.
t
Justice of the Peace.

REPLEVIN.
AFFIDAVIT.
Attd.vl.ln replevin. ¿ g > ^ ^fe^
£ J- justiee of the peace for
vs. > . . . . precinct . . . . , in county.
CD.)
The above named A. B., being duly sworn, says, that he has
good right to the possession of the following described goods
and chattels, and that the same are wrongfully detained by the
said 0. D.
(Here describe goods and chattels.)
Sworn to and subscribed before me this .... day of

,urut18..

ev ■

,

J
Justice of the Peace.

BOND.
■incipal,
Know all men by these presents, that we . . . . , as prin
and
, as securities, are held and firmly bound unto C. D.
in the sum penal of ... . dollars, to the payment of which well
and truly to be made, we do hereby jointly and severally bind
ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators. Sealed
witt
seals, and
this ....
day ofis. .such,
. ., 18.that
. whereas
Theourcondition
of dated
the above
obligation
the said A. B. is about to take out a writ of replevin against the
said C. I). for the following goods and chattels. Now, if the
said A. B. shall appear on the return day of said writ, and
prosecute his said suit to effect, and pay all costs and damages
which shall be awarded against him, then this obligation shall
be void ; otherwise in full force.

Approved this
Lrmr^Wl
124; Jan. la.

day of

18 • ■
' Justice of the Peace.

1140—§ 2447 J
5 2447, CONTINUED.

writ in replevin.

PROCEDURE CIVIL.

[TIT. XXXIII, CH. XXIV.

WRIT.
The Territory of New Mexico.
To the constable of .... precinct, in .... county,
you arg comman(je(]j jj^j without delay you cause to be re
plevied unto A. B., the goods and chattels following, to-wit:
(Here describe goods &c), which C. D. wrongfully detaius
from the said A. B., and that you summon the said C. D. to
appear before me in my office in .... precinct, in ... . county,
at .... o'clock in the forenoon of .... the .... day of . . . .,
18. ., to answer unto the said A. B. for the unlawful detention
of the goods and chattels aforesaid.
Given under my hand this .... day of ..... 18 . .
Justice of the Peace.
EXECUTION.
The Territory of New Mexico, To the sheriff (or con
stable) of
county, Greeting:
. Whereas
, on the .... day of
, 18 . . . obtained
judgment before the undersigned justice of the peace of pre
cinct ....... in the county of
, against
that he
have restitution of (here insert a description of the premises,
as in the complaint, if the judgment be for the whole, or as in
the judgment, if it be for a part), and that he recove/ of the
8fud
the sum of
damages, and in addition thereto
at the rate of
, for rents, and profits, from the
(lay of
. . . ., 18. ., until restitution shall be made together with costs.
You are hereby commanded to take with you the power of the
county, if necessary, and to cause the said
to be forth
with removed from the said premises, and the said .... to
have peaceable possession thereof, and that of the goods and
chattels of the said
you cause to be levied the damages,
rents and profits aforesaid, with the sum of
for costs and
..... . for this writ, and your fees hereon, and that you return
this writ with your doings thereon, to the undersigned within
twenty days from the date hereof.
Given under my hand, this
day of

, 18 . .


