CHAP. CXII.—An Act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in the

Courts of Justice of this State, and to repeal all other Acts in
relation thereto.

[Approved March 8, 1869.]

The People of the State of Mvada, represented in Senate and Assembly,
' s in ‘ : do enact as follows ’: A

- y

7'“

TITLE 1.
J. 3 0f the Form of Civil Actions and the Parties thereto.

SECTION 1. There shall be in this State but one form of civil ac-tion for the enforcement or protection of private rights, and the redress
or prevention of private wrongs.

SEC. 2. In such action the party complaining shall be known as
the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 3. When a question- of fact, not put in issue by the planting,
is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried; and such order shall
be the only authority necessary for a trial.

Ll, SEC. 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real .
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this Act.

SEC. 5. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action
by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense, existing at the time of, or before notice of the assignment; but
this Section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note, or bill of
exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration, before due.

SEC. 6. An executor, or administrator, or trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without
joining with him the person or persons for whose benefit the action is
prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this
Section, shall be construed to include a person with whom, or in whosec
name, a contract is made for the benefit of another.

SEC. 7. When a married woman is a party, her husband shall be
joined with her; except that: First—When the action concerns her
separate property, she may sue alone. Second—When the action is
between herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone.

SEC. 8. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may de-‘
fend for her own right.

SEC. 9. When an infant is a party, he shall appear by guardian,
who may be appointed by the Court in Which the action is prosecuted,
or by a Judge thereof. . .

SEC. 10. The guardian shall be appointed as follows: First—When
the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the
age of ‘fourteen years; or, if under that age, upon the application of a
relative or friend of the infant. Second—When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen
years, and apply within ten days after the service of the summons; if
he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon the
application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend
of the infant. _

SEC. 11. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his family, the mother, may maintain an action for the injury or death of a
child; and a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.

SEC. 12. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action,
and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except when otherwise provided in this Act.

SEC. 13. Any person may be made a defendant, who has, or claims,
an interest inthe controversy, adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a
necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the question involved therein.

SEC. 14. Of the parties to the action, those who aregunited in interest shall be joined as plaintifffs, or defendants; but if the consent of any
one, who should have been joined as plaintifff, cannot be obtained, he ‘
may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the com-(
plaint ; and when the question is one of a common or general interest
0f many persons, or when the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to bring them all before the Court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all. Tenants in common, joint tenants, or copartners, or any number less than all may jointly or severally bring or
defend, or continue the prosecution or defense, of any action for the
enforcement of the rights of such person or persons.

SEC. 15. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory

4

notes, and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all, or
any of them, be included in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

SEC. 16. An action shall not abate by the death, or other disability
of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the death, or disability, of a party,
the Court, on motion, may allow the action to be continued by or against
his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other trans«
fer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the original
party, or;the Court may allow the person to whom the tranfer is made
to be substituted in the action. After verdict shall have been rendered

.in any action for a wrong, such action shall not abate by the death of
any party, but the case shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as
in cases where the cause of action now survives by law.

SEC. 17. The Court may determine any controversy between par; ties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of .,
others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of
the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties,
the Court shall order them to be brought in, and thereupon the party
directed by the Court shall serve a copy of the summons in the action,

,and the order aforesaid in like manner of service of the original sum"lnons, upon each of the parties ordered to be brought‘in, who shall
have ten days, or such time as the Court may order, after service, in‘
which to appear and plead; and in case such party fail to appear and
plead within the time aforesaid, the Court may cause his default to be
entered, and proceed as in other cases of default, or may make such
other order as the condition of the action and justice shall require.

TITLE II.

0f the Place of Trial of Civil Actions.

. I SEC. 18. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the
County in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the Court to change the place of trial, as
provided in this Act: First—For the recovery of real property, or of
an estate, or interest therein, or for the determination in any form of
such right or interest, and for injuries to real property. Second—For
the partition of real pr0perty. Third—For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real pr0perty; provided, that where such real property is situate partly in one County and partly in another, the plaintifff may select
either of said Counties, and the County so. selected shall be theproper
County for the trial of any or all of such actions as are mentionedgin
the First, Second and Third subdivisions of this Section. .

SEC. 19. ' Actions for the following causes shall be tried in th
County where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the
like power of the Court to change the place of trial: First—For the
recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute; except,-.that
when it is imposed for ‘an offense committed on a lake, river, or other
stream of water, situated in two or more Counties, the action may be
brought in any County bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and
opposite to the place where the offense was committed. Second-—
Against a public officer, or person especially appointed « to execute his
duties, for anact done by him in virtue of his office, or against a person

who, by his command or in his aid, does anything touching the duties
of such officer. ' ,

SEC. 20. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the County
in which the defendants, or any one of them, may reside at the commencement of the action; or, if none of the defendants reside in the
State, or if residing in the State the County in which they so reside be
unknown to the plaintifff, the same may be tried in any County which
the plaintifff may designate in his complaint; and if any defendant. or
defendants, may be about to depart from the State, such action may be
tried in any County where either of the parties may' reside or service
be had, subject, however, to the power of the Court to change'zdie‘place
of trial, as provided in this Act. . . ' "K" «

SEC. 21. If the County designated for that purpose in the complaint be not the proper County, the action may, notwithstanding, be
tried therein, unless the defendant before the time for o answering expire demand in writing that the trial be had in the proper County, and
the place of trial be thereupon changed by consent of parties, or by
order of the Court, as is provided in this Section. The Court may, on
motion, change the place of trial in the following cases : First—When
the County designated in the complaint is not the proper County.
Second—When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot
be had therein. Third—When the convenience of witnesses and the.
ends of justice would be promoted by the change. Fourth—When
from any cause the Judge is disqualified from acting in the action.
When the place of trial is changed, all other proceedings shall be had
in the County to which the place of trial is changed ; unless otherwise
provided by consent of the parties in writing duly filed, or by order of ,
the Court; and the papers shall be filed, or transferred, accordingly. '

A

TITLE III.
0f the Manner of Commencing Civil Actions.

SEC. 22. Civil action in the District Courts shall be commenced
by the filing of' a complaint with the Clerk of the Court, and the issuance of a summons thereon; provided, that after the filing of the com- I
plaint a defendant in the action may appear, answer or demur, whether
the summons has been issued or not, and such appearance, answer or
demurrer, shall be deemed a waiver of summons.

SEC. 23. The Clerk shall indorse on the complaint the day, month 5
and year the same is filed, and at any time within one year after the ;
tiling of the same_the plaintiff‘may cause to be issued asummons
thereon. The summons shall be issued'and signed by the attorney of the
plaintifff, or by the Clerk,.and when issued by the Clerk shall be issued
under the seal of the Court. '

SEC. 24. The summons shall state the parties to the action, the
Court in which it is brought, the county in which the complaint is filed,
the cause  general nature of the action, and require the defendant

'to appear‘an‘d answer the complaint within the time mentioned in the
next section, after the service of summons, exclusive of the day of service; or that judgment by default will be taken against him, according
to the prayer of the complaint; briefly stating the‘sum of money or
other relief demanded in the complaint. The names of the plaintifff’s
attorneys shall be indorsed upon the summons. ’

SEC. 25. The time in which the summons shall require the defendant to answer the complaint shall be as follows : ’First—If the defendant is served within the county in which the action is brought, ten days.
Second—If the defendant is served out of the county, but in the District in which the action is brought, twenty days.. Third—In all other
cases, forty days.

SEC. 26. There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice in
substance as follows: First—In an action arising on contract for the
recovery only of money or damages, that the plaintifff will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint. Second—In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, the plaintifff will apply to the Court for the relief
demanded therein. ’

SEC. 27. In an action for the foreclosure of a. mortgage upon real
pr0perty, or affecting the title or possession of real preperty, the
plaintifff, at the time of filing the complaint, and the defendant, at the
time of filing his answer, when affirmative relief is claimed in such

'answer, or at any time afterwards, may file with the Recorder of the
cdunty in which the property, or some part thereof is situated, a notice
of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties,

Ithe object of the action, and a description of the property in that
county affected thereby, and the defendant may also, in 'such’ notice,

.state the nature and extent of the relief claimed in the answer. From
the time of filing, only, shall the pendency of the action be construcs
tive notice to a purchaser, or fncumbrancer of the property affected
thereby; and in case of the foreclosure' of such mortgage all pur—
chasers or incutnbrancers, by unrecorded deed or other instrument in
writing made prior to the filing of such notice, and subsequent to the
date of such mortgage, shall be deemed and held purchasers or encumbrancers subsequent to the filing of such notice, and subject thereto,
unless they can show that at the time of filing the notice the plaintifff
had actual notice of such purchase or encumbrance.

SEC. 28. The summons shall be served by the Sheriff of the county
where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by any citizen of
the United States over twenty-one years of age; and, except as hereinafter provided, a copy of the complaint, certified by the Clerk or
the plaintifff’s attorney, shall be served with the summons. When the
summons shall be served by the Sheriff or his deputy, it shall be ,returned with the certificate or affidavit of the officer, of its service, and
~of the service of the copy of the complaint, to the office of the Clerk
of the county in which the action is commenced. When the summons
is served by anymthe person, as before provided, it shall be returned
to the office of the Clerk of the county in whi‘g, the action is commenced withthe affidavit of such person of i's service, and of the
service of a copy of the complaint. If there be more than one de‘fendant to the action residing within the county in which the action is
brought, avc0py of the complaint need be served only on one of such
defendants. , . I

SEC. 29. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof, attached to the certified copy of the complaint, as follows: First-e
If the suit be against a domestic corporation, organized under 1116
laws of this State, to the President or other head of the corporatitilt.
Secretary, Cashier, or managing Agent thereof. Second—If the 603'
be against a foreign corporation or a non-resident joint stock comma“!
or association, doing business within this State, to an Agent, Cashiers

or Secretary, President or other head thereof; provided, that if the
suit be against a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
California, in addition to such personal service, a capy of the summons, attached to a certified copy of the complaint, shall be deposited
in the Post Office, addressed to the President and Trustees of said corporation, at their place of business in the State of California, if the
same is kn n, or can by due diligence be ascertained ; and, provided
further, tha when such California corporation has no President or
other head, Secretary, Cashier or managing Agent, upon whom service
of summons can be had, the Court before which such action has been
brought, or the Judge thereof, may, upon the affidavit of the plaintifff,
showing the 'existence of the foregoing facts, make an order for the
service on the defendant of a copy of the summons and complaint in
the action. Such service my be made by some competent person
' appointed bythe Court or the Judge thereof, or by the Sheriff of the
county, within the State of California, within which the principal
place of business of such corporation may be located. Such service
may be made personally, within said State of California, by said Sheriff ‘
or other person appointed by th .‘Court or Judge, and shall be made
in the same manner as required by law for the personal service of
summons within this State. The service shall be upon the President
or other head, Secretary, Cashier or managing Agent of such corporation, and when proved to the satisfaction of the Court, by the sworn
return of said Sheriff or other person so appointed, shall be for all
purposes as valid and effectual as if made by a competent officer within
this State; and in case such corporation shall not appear in the action
within forty days after such service, its default and judgment thereon may be entered as in other cases. Third—If against a minor
under the age, of fourteen years, to such minor personally, and also to
his father, mother or guardian; or, if there be none within the'State,
then. to any person having the care and control of such minor, or with
whom he resides, or'in whosd service he is employed. Fourth—If
against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been
appointed, to such guardian. Fifth—In all other cases, to the defend
antpersonally. . .

SEC. 30. When the person on whom the service is to be made
resides out of the State, or has departed from the State, or cannot
after due diligence be found withingthe State, or conceals himself to
avoid the service of summons, or being a corporation, or joint stock
association, cannot be served as provided in Section Twenty-nine, and,
the fact shall appear by affidavit to the’Ksatisfaction of the Court or a.
Judge thereof, and it shall in like manner appear that a cause of action ‘
exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be‘
made#r)that he is a necessary or prOper party to the action, such‘
Cour or Judge may grant an order that the service be made by the
publication of the summons.‘ '

SEC. 31. The order shall direct the publication to be made in a
newspaper to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person
to be served, and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable,
at least onceaweek; provided, that a publication against a defendant
being or residing either in the States of California or Oregon, or Teri
ritories of Utah or Washington, shall not be less than one month; and
against a defendant residing out of the State, or absent therefrom, and
not being or residing in either the States of California or Oregon, or

the Territories of Utah or Washington, shall not be less than three
months. In case of publication where the residence, of a non-resident
or absent defendant is known, the Court or Judge shall also directa
c0py of the summons and complaint to be deposited in the Post Ofiice,
directed to the person to be served at his place of residence. When
publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and
complaint out of the State shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the Post OH‘ice. The service of summons shall be deemed
complete when personally made, whether in or out of the State, and in

. cases of publication at the expiration of the time prescribed in the order; provided, that when the order directs a copy of the complaint and
summons to be deposited in the Post Office, the service shall not be
complete until the expiration of the time prescribed for publication after
such deposit. In actions upon contracts for the direct payment of 1
money, the. Court in its discretion may, instead of ordering publication,
or may after publication, appoint an attorney to appear for the non-4
resident, absent, or concealed defendant, and conduct the proceedings!
. on his part. ,

SEC. 32. Where the action is against two or 'more defendants, and'

.«the summons is served on one or more, but ~not on all of them, the
plaintifff may proceed as follows: First—If the actions be against the ‘
defendants" jointly indebted upon a contract, he may proceed against .‘
the defendant served, unless the Court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus
jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against the joint ‘

' property of all and the separate property of the defendant served; or,

'y Second—If the action be against defendants severally liable", he may‘
proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as if they
were the only defendants. '

SEC. 33. .Proof of the service of the summons shall be as follows:
First—If served by the Sheriff or his (1 uty, the affidavit or certificate
of such Sheriff or deputy; or, Second— f by any other person, his
atiidavit thereof; or, Third—In case of publication, the affidavit of the
publisher, his foreman or principal clerk, showing the same, and an
affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the Post Office, if the
same shall have been deposited ;'or, Fourth—The written admission of
the defendant. '

SEC. 34. In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate or affidavit shall state the time and place of the service.

. SEC. 35. From the time of the service of the summons in acivil
action, the Court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to
have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appear‘ance of a defendant shall be equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him. ' '

5

TITLE .IV._

0f the Pleadings in Civil Actions.

SEC. 36. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the partial 0f
their r'e'Specti've claims and defenses, for the judgment cf the. CM;

SE10. 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and 
by Which the sutliciency of the pleadings shall be determinedimi’he
those prescribed in this Act. '  ' i

,. . s
.0
‘ ,0, “null-I}

SEC. 38. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintifff shall be
the complaint, or demurrer to the defendant’s answer; and the‘ only
pleadings on the part of the defendant shall be the demurrer, or the
answer. The demurrer or answer of the defendant, and the demurrer
of the plaintifff, shall be filed with the Clerk, and a copy served op “the
adverse party, or his attorney. '

SEC. 39. The complaint shall contain: First— The title of the action, specifying the name of the Court, and the name of the county in
which the action is brought, and the names of the parties to the action,
plaintifff and defendant. Second—A statement of the facts constituting
the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language. Third—A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims. If the recovery of money
or damages he demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated. ‘

SEC. 40. The defendant may demur to the complaint within the
time required in the summons to answer, when it appears upon the face
thereof, either: First—That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action; or: econd—

rThat the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or: Third—QThat
, there is another acti n pending between the same parties for the samei
’ cause; or: Fourth. There is a defect or misjoinder of parties, plaintifffor defendant; or: Fifth-LThat several causes of action have been
Limproperly united; or: Sixth—That the complaint does not state
rfacts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Seventh—That the
yompl‘aint is ambiguous, unintelligible or uncertain. '

SEC. 41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds upon
which,any of the objections to the complaint are taken. Unless it
do so it may be disregarded. ° .

SEO. 42. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or
to one or more of several causes of action stated therein, and answer the residue; or may demur and answer at the same time.

SEC. 43. If the.complaint be amended, a cOpy of the amendment
shall be filed, or the Court may, in its discretion, require the complaint
as amended to be filed, and a copy of the amendments shall be served
upon every defendant to be affected thereby, or upon his attorney if he
has appeared by attorney. The defendant shall answer in such time as
may be ordered by the Court, and judgment by default may be en—
tered upon failure to answer, as in other cases.

See. 44. When any of the matters enumerated in Section Forty
do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be
taken by answer. '

SEC. 45. ‘If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer, or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, except- 1
ing only the objection to the jurisdiction of the Court, and the objection
that the complaint does not state facts suiiicient to constitute a cause of ‘
action. "

SEC. 46. The answer of the defendant shall contain : First—If the
complaint be verified, a special [specific] denial to each allegation of the
complaint; controverted by the defendant, or a denial thereof according
to his information and belief; if the complaint be not verified, then a
general denial to each of such allegations; but a general denial shall
only put in issue the matetial and express allegations of the complaint.
Second—A statement of any new matter or counterclaim coxistitutin
8 defense, in ordinary. and concise language. I Cent. 4, 3. I 3 L I

SEC. 47. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section, shall be
one existing in favor of the defendant and against a plaintifff, between

whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out
of one of the following causes of action: First—A cause of action
arising out of the transaction set forth in the complaint as the founda-,
tion of the plaintifff’s claim, or connected with the subject of the action.

[Second—In an action arising upon contract, any other cause of action
arising also upon contract and existing at the commencement of the
action.  6 Q]

SEC. 48. hen cross demands have existed between persons under
such circumstances that if one had brought an action against the other
a counterclaim could have been set up, neither shall be deprived of
the benefit thereof by the assignment or deathof the other, but the two
demands be deemed compensation so far as they equal each other.

SEC. 49. The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses
and counterclaims as he may have. They shall each be separately
stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the causes of action which
they are intended to answer in a manner in which they may be intelligibly distinguished. .

SEC. 50. The plaintifff may, within the number of days in which

'the defendant is by the summons required to answer, said days to be
compuked fr m the time of the service on the plaintifff of a copy of

“Fitch answe$emur to the same for insgmgigngy, stating in his deo-murrer the grounds thereof; and he may also, within the same time,
demur to one or more of the defenses set up in the answer. Slam and‘
irrelevant answers and defenses, and so much of any answer as may,
be irrelevant, redundant or immaterial may be stricken out on motion;7
and upon such terms as the Court, in its discretion, may impose. ‘

SEC. 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party or his
attorney, and when the complaint is verified by affidavit, the answer
shall be verified also, except as provided in the next section.

SEC. 52. The verification of the answer required in the last Section may be omitted when an admission of the truth of the complaint
might subject the party to prosecution for felony. ‘ 7

SEC. 53. When an action is brought upon a written instrument,
and the complaint contains a copy of such instrument, or a copy is an—
nexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument
shall be deemed admitted, unless the answer denying the same be
verified.

SEC: 54. When the defense to an action is founded upon a written’3
instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the answer, or a copy is“
annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument?
.shall be deemed admitted, unless the plaintifff file .with the Clerk five
days after the service of the answer an aiiidavit denying the same.

, SEC. 55. In all cases of ’the verification of a pleading, the affidavit
of the party shall state that the same is true of his own knowledge, except as to the matters which are therein stated on his information or
belief, and as to those matters, that he believes it, to be true. And
where a pleading is verified, it‘ shall be by the affidavit- of" the party,
unless he be absent from the County where theattorneysreside, or
Hum MIIHI‘ (11114:; unable to verify it, or theefactsare Within the knowl-i
(‘11,ng of his. attorney (-4- other person verifying the same. When the
wrestling is Hrrifiwl by the attorney, or anytotherperson' except the
pat-2y. 1m 3m]! m I'm-1i: in the affidavit the reasons why it is not mad&
hy tlw inn-t}: \N'Imn aborporation is a party,- the verification my bet
made. by any main-r :lu-=reof; or when the State, or any officer the“ int:
its lnrllalf, is a party, the verification may be made-by any perm.”

    
    
     
  

quainted with the facts; except that in actions prosecuted by the Attorney-General in behalf of the State, the pleadings need not, in any
case, be verified.

(_ SEC. 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading .
{the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall deliver to the ad- ;
verse party within five days after a demand thereof, in writing, a copy :
of the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The
Court, or a Judge thereof, may order a further account when the one
delivered is too general or is defective in any particular.

SEC. 57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a plead- ;
ing, it may be stricken out by the Court on motion of any person ag- 3
grieved thereby.

' SEC. 58. In an action for the recovery of real property, such prop. .

erty shall be described, with its metes and bounds, in the complaint, or 3
with other equal certainty.

SEC. 59. In pleadinga judgment or other determination of a Court, .
or odicer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may
be stated to have been duly given or made. If such allegation be con‘troverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial the
facts conferring jurisdiction.

SEC. 60. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such 'performance ; but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed
all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted,
the party pleading shall establish on the trial the facts showing such
performance. '

SEC. 61. Impleading a private statute, ora right derived therefrom,
it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of ;
its passage, and the Court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

SEC. 62. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessaryto
state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the

application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the
action arose; but it shall be sufficient to state generally that the same
was published, or spoken, concerning the plaintifff; and if such allega‘ tion be controverted, the plaintifff shall establish on the trial that it was
80 published or spoken.

SEC. 63. In the actions mentioned in the last Section, the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and any'mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of damages; and, whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in
evidence the mitigating circumstances. SEC. 64. The plaintiE may unite several causes of action in the
same complaint, when they all arise out of: First—Contracts express
or implied»; or : Second—Claims to recover specitic real property, with
.or without damages, for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed
thereon, and the rents and profits of the same; or: Third—Claims to
recover'specitie. paSonal property, with or without damages, for the
withholding thereof; or: Fourth—Claims against a trustee, by virtue
0f a contract. Or byOperation of law; or: Fifth—Injuries to character;‘ or: ' Sixth—dlnjuries to person; or: Seventh-Injuries to propbTty. But the causes of action so united shall all belong to only one of
these classes, and shall affect all the parties to the action, and not require
direrent places of trial, and shall be separately stated ; provided, howVefithat an action for malicious arrest and prosecution, or either of

  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

them, may be united with an action for either injury to character orto
the person. - ' .

SEO. 65. Every material allegation of the complaint, when it is
verified, not specifically controverted by the answer, shall for the purpose of the action be taken as true. ' The allegation of new matter in
the answer, shall on the trial be deemed controverted by the adverse

arty. _ .

p SEC. 66. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to
the claim, or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufiicient. J SEC. 67. After demurrer, and before the trial of issue on demurrer, either party may, within ten days, amend any pleading deo
murred to,'-of course, and without costs, tiling the same as amended,
and serving a c0py thereof upon the adverse party or his attorney,
who shall have ten days to answer or demur thereto if the pleading
be a complaint, or to demur thereto if it be an answer; but a party
shall not so amend more than once. When a demurrer to a complaint
is overruled,and there is no answer filed, the Court.may, upon such
terms as shall be just, and upon payment of costs, allow the defendant to file an answer. If a demurrer to the answer be overruled, the
facts alleged in the answer shall still be considered as denied.

SEC. 68. The Court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as maybe proper, amend any pleading or proceedings by adding
or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party, or amistake in any other respect, and may upon
like terms enlarge the time for an answer or demurrer, or demurrer.

"to an answer filed. The Court may likewise, upon affidavit showing 1
good cause therefore, after notice to the adverse p ty, allow, upon
such terms as may be just, an amendment to any geading or proceeding in other particulars, and may upon like terms allow! an answer

{to be made after the time limited by this Act, and may, uponcsuch
terms as may be just, and upon payment of costs, relieve a party or
his legal representatives from a judgment, order or other proceeding
taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect; and when, from any cause, the summons and a copy
of the complaint in an action have not been personally served on
the defendant, the Court may allow, on such terms as may be just,
such defendant or his legal representatives, at any time within six
months after the rendition of any judgment in such action, to answer to the merits of the original action.

SEC. 69. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a de‘ fendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered'the
pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

SEC. 70. In the construction-of a pleading for the purpose of
determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.

I SEC. 71. The Court shall in every stage of an action disregard
any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which shall not
affect the substantial rights of the parties; and no judgment shall

(be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.

TITLE V.
0f tlze .Provz'sional Remedies in Civil Actions.
CHAPTER l—ARREST AND BAIL.

SEC. 72. No person shall be arrested in a civil action except as .
prescribed by this Act. '

SEC. 73. The defendantmay be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed, .in the following cases arising after the passage of this Act: First—
Iu an action for the recovery of money or damages on a cause of action
arising upon contract, express or implied, when the defendant is about
to depart from the State with intent to defraud his creditors, or when
the action is for libel or slander. Second—In .an action for a fine or
penalty, or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied or converted to his own use by a public odicer, or an officer of
aeorporation, or ,an attorney, factor, broker, agent or clerk, in the
course of his employment as such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in oil‘ice; or in a professional
employment, or for a willful violation of duty. Third—In an action
to recOver the possession of personal property unjustly detained, when
the prOperty or any part thereof has been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that it cannot be founder taken by the Sheriff. F ourth—
When ‘the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
debt or incurring the obligation for Which the action is brought, or in
concealing orgdisposing of the property, for the taking, detention or
conversion of 'which the action is brought. Fifth—When the defendant has removed or disposed of his prOperty, or is about to do so, with
intent to defraud his creditors.

SEC. 74. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be obtained
from a Judge of the Court in which the action is brought.

SEC. 75. The order may be made whenever it shall appear to the
Judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff or some other person, that a sufficient cause of action exists, and the case is one of those mentioned in
Section seventy-three. The atiidavit shall be either positive or upon
information and belief; and when upon information and belief, it shall
state the facts upon which the information and belief are founded. If
an order of arrest be made, the affidavit shall be filed with the Clerk of
the Court.

SEC. 76. Before making the order the Judge shall require a written undertaking, payable in gold coin of the United States, on the part
of the plaintifff, with sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover
judgment the plaintifff will pay all costs and charges that may be awarded
to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reasOn of
the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
Shall be at least live hundred dollars. Each of the sureties shall annex
to the undertaking an atIidavit that he is a resident and householder or
freeholder within the State, and worth double the sum specified in the
undertaking over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of
pr0perty exempt frotti execution. The undertaking shall be filed with
the Clerk of the Court.

SEC. 77. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or
any time’al'terwards before judgment. It shall require the Sheriff of

the county where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him
and hold him to bail in a specified sum, naming the money or currency
in which it is payable, and to return the order at a time therein mentioned to the. Clerk of the Court in which the action is pending.

’ SEC. 78. The order of arrest, with a copy of the affidavit upon
which it is made, shall be delivered to the Sheriff, who, upon arresting
the defendant, shall deliver to him the copy of the affidavit, and also, if
desired, a copy of the order of arrest. ‘ ,

SEC. 79. The Sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by law.
" “ SEC. 80. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged from the arrest either upon giving bail or upon depositing the
amount mentioned in the order of arrest in the money or currency
therein named, as provided in this Chapter. .

SEC. 81. The defendant may give bail by causing a written undertaking, payable in the money of the contract, (if any be named) and
in other cases as directed by the Judge, to be executed by two or more
sufficient sureties, stating their places of residence and occupations, to
the effect that they are bound in the amount mentioned in the order of
arrest; that the defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to
the process of the Own during the pendency of the action, and to such
as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or that they will pay
to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which may be recovered in
the action.

SEC. 82. At any time before judgment, or within ten days thereafter, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration; or he
may surrender himself to the Sheriff of the countywhere he was arrested. SEC. 83. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail.
at any time or place before they are finally charged, 'may themselves
arrest him ; or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified copy of
the undertaking, may empower the Sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest
of the defendant by the Sheriff, or upon his‘delivery to the Sheriff by
the bail, or upon his own surrender, the bail shall be exonerated, provided, such arrest, delivery or surrender take place before the expiration of ten days after judgment; but if such arrest, delivery or surrender be not made within ten days after judgment, the bail shall be finally
charged on their undertaking, and be bound to pay the amount of the
judgment within ten days thereafter.

SEC. 84. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay. the judgment within
ten days after they are finally charged, an action may be commenced
against such bail for the amount of such original judgment.

SEC. 85. The bail shall also be exonerated by the death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a State Prison, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process.
 "" SEC. 86. Within the time limited for that purpose, the Sheriff shall
file the order of arrest in the office of the Clerk of the Court in which
the action is pending, with his return indorsed thereon, together with a
copy of the undertaking of the bail. The original undertaking he shall
retain in his possession until filed, as herein provided. The plaintifff
within ten days thereafter may serve upon the Sheriff a notice that he
does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted them,
11ml tlw Hip-rill #113“ be exonerated from liability. If no notice be
5(“l‘Vi'il \x'irlaln It'll days, the original undertaking shall be filed with the
Clerk of the Court.

SEC. 87. Within five days after the receipt of notice, the Sheriff
or defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his attorney, notice of the
justification of the same, or other bail (specifying the places of residence and occupations of the latter) before the Judge of the Court, or
Clerk, at a specified time and place; the time to be not less than five
nor more than ten days thereafter, except by consent of parties. In
case other bail be given there shall be a new undertaking. .

SEC. 88. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows: First—
Each of them shallzje a resident, and householder, or freeholder,
within the county. Second—Each shall be worth'the amount specified
in the order of arrest, or the amount to which the order is reduced, as
provided in this Chapter, over and above all his debts and liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from execution ; but the Judge, or Clerk,
on justification, may allow more than two sureties to justify severally
in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of ‘ two sufficient bail.

SEC. 89. For the purpose of justilichtion, each of the bail shall
attend before the Judge, or Clerk, at the time and place mentioned in t
the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff,
touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the Judge or Clerk in his
discretion may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to
writing, and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.

SEC: 90. If the Judge, or Clerk, find the bail sufficient, he shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed, and the Sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.

SEC. 91. The defendant may at the time of his arrest, instead of '
giving bail, deposit with the Sheriff the amount mentioned in the order.
In case the amount of the bail be reduced, as provided in this Chapter,
the defendant may deposit such amount instead of giving bail. In
either case the Sheriff shall give the defendant a certificate of the deposit made, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

SEC. 92. The Sheriff shall immediately after the deposit pay the'
same into Court, and take from the Clerk receiving the same two certificates of such payment; the one of which he shall deliver or transmit to the plaintifff, Or his attorney, and the other to the defendant.
For any default in making such payment, the same proceedings may
he had on the official bond of the Sheriff to collect the sum deposited
as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 93. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two Sections, bail may be given, and may justify upon notice at any time before judgment; and on the filing of the undertaking and justification
with the Clerk, the money deposited shall be refunded by such Clerk
to the defendant.

SEC. 94. Where money shall have [been] deposited, if it remain .
on deposit at the time of a recovery of a judgment in favor of the ‘
plaintifff, the Clerk shall, under the direction of the Court, apply the ‘
same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment shall
refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judgment-be in
favor of the defendant, the Clerk shall, under like direction of the
Court, refund to him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied. ,

SEC. 95. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued, the Sheritf shall himself be liable as bail ; but he may discharge
himself from such liability by the giving and justification of bail at
any time before judgment. '

SEC. 96. If a judgment be recovered against the Sheriff, upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on his ofiicial bond
for the recovery of the whole .or any deficiency, as in other cases of
delinquency.

SEC. 97. A defendant arrested may, at any time before the justifi-.
cation of bail, apply to the Judge who made the order, or the Court in
which the action is pending, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff to
vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail. If the application be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not
otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other
proofs inaddition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

SEC. 98. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear that
there was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the order shall be vacated,

or if it'satisfactorily appear that the bail was fixed too high, the amount
shall be reduced.

CHAPTER 2—CLAIMS AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL Paormlz'rr.’
J awaysv, a?» 4x 94. 5% 33.9%;

SEC. 99. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of
personal prOperty may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time before answer, claim the delivery of such property to him as
provided in this chapter.

SEC. 100. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made
by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing: First—That
the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, (particularly describing it) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof. Second—That
the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant. Third—:The
alleged cause of the detention thereof according to his best knowledge,
information and belief. F ourth—That the same has not been taken
for a tax, assessment or fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an
execution or an attachment against the property of the plaintifff, or, if
so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure; and, Fifth—The actual value of the property.

SEC. 101. The plaintifff or his attorney may thereupon, by indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the Sheriff of the county
where the property claimed may be, to take the same from the dc.
fendant. I _

SEC. 102. Upon a receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufiicient’sureties, approved by
the Sheriff, to the effect that they are bound to the defendant in double
the value of the property, in gold coin of the United States, as stated
in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the
prOperty to the defendants, if return thereof be adjudged, and for 'the
payment to him of such sum as may from any cause he recovered
against the plaintifff, in gold coin of the United States, the Sheriff shall
forthwith take the property described in the affidavit“ if it be in the
, possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody.

’He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent, from whose possession the
property is taken ; or, if neither can be found, by leaving them at the
usual pEace of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and

f

discretion; or' if neither have any known ‘place‘of abode, by putting
them in the nearest Post Office, directed to the defendant.

SEC. 103. The defendant may, within two days after the service of t
a copy of the affidavit and the undertaking, give notice to the SheriH‘ ‘
that he excepts to the sufficiency of the safeties. If he fails to do so,
he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the
defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify en notice in like manner as
upon bail on arrest; and the Sheriff shallbe reSponsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them is ‘either waived, as
above provided, or until they justify. If the defendant except to the
sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as provided in the next Section.

. SEC. 104. At any time before the delivery of the property to the

plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to.the sureties of the

plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the Sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or mere sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property, in gold

coin of ,the United States, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for
the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, ndla
for the payment to him of such sum, in gold coin of the United
as may for any cause e recovered against the defendant. If a
of the property be' not 5 required within fiveidays after the taking (1
serving of notice to the defendant, it shall- be delivered to the plaintifff,
except as provided in section one hundred and nine.

SEC. 105. The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the plaintifff of
not less than two or more than five days, shall justify before the Judge
or the Clerk, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon
such justification the Sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant.
The Sheriff shall be responsible for the defendantureties until they

justify, or until the justification is cgpleted or ressly waived, and
P

  
   

may retain the’property until tl time. If they or others in their
placefail to justify at the time and ace appointed, he shall deliver the
property to the plaintifff.

SEC. 106. The qualification of sureties and their justification shall
be such as are prescribed by this Act in respect to bail upon an order
of arrest. ' . ..

SEC. 107. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the Sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery.
Ifit be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to .be
broken open, and take the property into his possession ; and if necessary
he may call to his aid the power of his county.

SEC. 108. When the Sheriff shall have taken property, as in this
Chapter provided, he'shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to
the party entitled thereto upon receiving his lawful fees for taking and
necessary expenses for keeping the same.

SEC. 109. 'If the property taken be claimed by any other person
than the defendant; or his agent, and such person make affidavit
of'his title thereto, or right to possesion thereof, stating the grounds
of such title or right, and serve' the same upon the Sheriff, the
Sheriff shall not be bound to keep the prOperty or deliver it to
the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand of him or his agent,
indemnify the Sheriff against such claim by an undertaking, made
payable in gold cein. of-‘the United States, by two sufficient suretiés,
accompanied by their affidavits that they are each worth double
the value ofthe property as ‘spicified in the affidavit of the plaintifff,
orer’andf above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of“ property

exempt from execution, and are freeholders or householders in the
county; andno claim to such property by any other person than the

defendant or his agent shall be valid against the Sheriff unless so
made. ‘ .

SEC. 110. The Sheriff shall file the notice, undertaking and athdavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the Clerk of the Court in

which the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.

CHAPTER 3—INJUNCTI 0N.

SEC. 111. An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to
refrain from a. particular act. The order or writ may be granted by
the Court in which the action is brought, or by a Judge thereof, and,
when made by a Judge, may be enforced as the order of the Court.

SEC. 112. An injunction may be granted in the following cases:
First—When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintifff is

xentitled to the relief demanded, and such relief or any part thereof
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually. Second—When
it shall appear by the complaint or affidavit. that the commission or
continuance of some act, during the litigation, would produce great or‘
irreparable injury to the plaintifff. Third—When it shall appear,
during the litigation, that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is
about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintifff’s rights respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual.

SEC. 113. ' The injunction may be granted at me time of issuing the
summons upon' the complaint, and at any time afterwards, before »
judgment, upon aHidavits or other evidence. The complaint in the one
case, and the affidavits or other evidence in the other, shall show
satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist therefore. No injunction
shall be granted on the complaint, unless it be verified by the oath of

l the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, that he, the person making the

loath, has read the complaint or heard the complaint read, and knows
the contents thereof, and the same is true of his own knowledge;
except the matters therein stated on information and belief, and that
as to those matters he believes it to be true. When granted on the
complaint a c0py of the complaint and verification attached shall be
served with the injunction ; 'when granted upon affidavit, without
notice, a copy of the affidavit shall be served with the injunction.

SEC. 114. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant
has answered unlessuiion notice, or upon an order made as provided
in section one hundred and sixteen, but in such case the defendant may
be restrained until the decision of the Court or Judge granting or
refusing the injunction. . '

SEC. 115. 'On granting an injunction, or a restraining order, the
Court or Judge shall require, except where the State is a party plaintifff, a
written undertaking, with sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff
will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount
ts) be 5].}C(_'lllt-‘(l, as such party may sustain by reason of the injunction,
if the ("mart finally decide that the plaintifff Was not entitled thereto.

Sun. 115. J 1‘ the. Ctllll‘l. 0r Judge deem it proper that the defendant,
or any of sex-Teral (Iciclnlants, should be heard before granting the injuhction, an order shall be' made fixing a time and place for hearing the
application for the injunction, a c0py of which order shall be served‘
upon the person or persons designated therein, and the defendant may
in the mean time be restrained. Upon the hearing the parties may use
affidavits, other written evidence and oral testimony.

SEC. 117. An injunction or restraining order to suspend the
general and ordinary business of a corporation shall not be granted
without due notice of the application therefore, to be served in the
manner prescribed for service of the summons in the action:

SEC. 118. If an injunction be granted without notice, the defendant .at any time before the trial, may apply, upon reasonable notice, to
the Judge who granted the injunction, or to the Court in which the
action is pending, or a Judge thereof, to dissolve or modify the same.
‘ The application may be made upon the complaint and the affidavit, or
affidavits, on which the injunction was granted, if any were used, or
upon affidavits or other testimony on the part of the defendant, with
or without the answer. If the application be made upon affidavit, or
other evidence, on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the
plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence in addition to the atiidavits on which the injunction was granted, and the defendant may then in proper cases introduce rebutting affidavits or
other evidence; provided, that for the purpose of allowing the plaintiff to introduce further evidence, the answer or verification thereto
attached shall be deemed an affidavit. ° K

SEC. 119. The ,Supreme Court may prescribe by rule ‘the time
when, and the cases in which, the service of affidavits to be used upon
applications for injunctions, and motions to dissolve injunctions, shall
be made; and may also provide by rule for the giving of notice before
such hearings of the kind of testimony to be used, and make all needful rules on the subject of injunctions not in conflict with this or otherActs. . '

SEC. 120. If upon the hearing of an application for an injunction,
or. for the dissolution of an injunction, it does not satisfactorily appear
that there is a sufficient cause for an injunction, or if it appear that
the extent of the injunction is too great, it shall be refused, dissolved,
or modified, as the case may be, and upon all such applications in actions respecting mines the Court, or Judge hearing the same, may, instead of granting or continuing the injunction, make an order requiring
the party against whom the application is made to giv bond in an
amount fixed by such Court or Judge, withisufficient reties, to be
approved by such Court or Judge, conditioned for the .payment to the
plaintifff of all damages which he may sustain by reason of the use or
occupation of the mine, or other acts complained of, by the party giving the bond, his . or its agents, servants, employés, grantees, or other
persons by his or its-consent pending the litigation, if the plaintifff
finally recover; or that upon failure to give such bond within the time
prescribed in the order, the injunction shall be granted, or continued,
as the case may be; or the Court, or Judge, may appoint a receiver,
to take charge of the mine, or the proceeds thereof, pending the litigation.

SEC. 121. It shall be good cause in the discretion of the Court, or
Judge, for the dissolution of an injunction that the plaintifff is doing,
or causing, or permitting to be done, some act pending the litigation
which, if continued, will be injurious to the defendant if he finally recover, or, to the property in dispute. But the Court, or Judge, hearing

a motion to dissolve an injunction, may instead of granting such motion, direct by order that the plaintifff give to the parties restrained a
bond renditioned, as provided in Section One Hundred and Twenty, or
upon his failure to do so, within the time prescribed in such order that
the injunction shall be dissolved.

SEC. 122. All undertakings and bonds provided for in this Chapfer shall be made payable in gold coin of the United States.

CHAPTER 4—ATTACHMENT.

SEC. 123. The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at
any time afterwards, may have the property of the defendant attached,
as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered,
unless the defendant give security to pay such judgment, as hereinafter
provided in the following cases: First—In an action upon a contract for the direct payment of money, made, or by the terms thereof,
payable in this State, whiclf‘is not secured by mortgage, lien or pledge
upon real or personal property situated or being in this State, or, if so
secured, when such security has been rendered nugatory by the act of

the defendant.‘ Second—In an action upon a contract against a defendant not residing in this State. ‘ '

SEC. 124. The 'Clerk of the Court. shall issue the writ of attachment upon receiving an atiidavit by or on behalf of the plaintifff, which
shall be filed, showing: FirstXZTh-at the defendant is indebted to the
plaintifff (specifying the amount of such indebtedness, over ,and above
all legal set-offs or counterclaims) upon a contract for the direct payment of money, and that such contract was made, or is, by the terms
thereof, payable in this State, and that the payment of the same has
not been secured by any mortgage, lien, or pledge upon real or personal property Situate or being in this State, or, if so secured, that
said security has been rendered nugatory by the act ‘of the defendant:
or: Secdnd'—-That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff, (specifying the amount of such indebtedness as near as may be over and above
all legal set-offs or counterclaims) and that the defendant is a nonresident of the State. Third-—That the sum for which the attachment
is asked is an'actual, bona tide, existing debt, due and owing from the
defendant to-“he. plaintifff, and that the attachment is not sought and
the action ' prosecuted», to hinder, delay or defraud any creditor of
the defenda ‘ " .7 _ ‘ '

"  _ “efore issuing the writ the Clerk shall require a writ. 'ing‘rm the part of the plaintifff, in ‘a sum not less than two(
hundred-dollars, not exceeding the amount claimed by tliet‘plaintiiii'in
goldvcoin of the United States, with sufhpient‘sureties, to the effect that ‘
if the defendant recover judgment the plaintifff will pay, in- gold coin ofg‘
the United States, all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and ‘
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking. ' '

’ SEC. 126. ' The writ shall be directed to the Sherid‘ of any county
in which property of such defendant may be, and require him to attach
and safely keep all the'property of suCh defendant within’his' county
not. (kxnutpt. from t-jt'et'tttinn, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to
Sttllsll‘y' the: plaintifff's (lift'tttltttl, the amount Of, which shall'be' sftated‘in
conformity with the complaint. unless the defendant give him security
by the undertaking, of at least two sufficient .sureties,’ in an'ambl'm't‘

   
  

W.

J

sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides cost, in the money or currency of the contract, in which case to take such undertaking. .Several
writs may be issued at‘ the same time to the Sheriffs of different counties.

SEC. 127. The rights or shares which the defendant may have in
the stock of any corporation or company, together with the interest
and profits therein, and all debts due such defendant, and all other property in this State of such defendant not exempt from execution, may be
attached, and if judgment be reCovered be sold to satisfy the judgment
and execution.

SEC'. 128. The Sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered
shall execute the same without delay, and if the undertaking mentioned
in Section. One Hundred and Twenty-six be not given—as follows:
. First—Real property shall be attached by leavingta copy of the writ
with the occupant thereof; or if there' be no occupant, by posting a
copy in a conspicuous place thereon, and filing a copy, together with a
description of the property attached, with the Recorder of the county.
Second—Personal property capable of anual delivery shall be attached by taking it into custody. Third Stock or shares, or interest
in stock or shares, of any corporation or company, shall be attached by
leaving .with the President, or other head of the same, or the Scoretary, Cashier or Managing ‘Agent thereof, a copy of the writ, and a
notice stating the stock or interest of the defendant is attached in pursuance of such writ. Fourth—Debts and credits, and other personal
property, not capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving ‘
with the person owing such debts, or having in his possession, or under
his control, such credits or other personal property,a copy of the writ, !
and a notice that the debts owing by him to the defendant, or the
credits and other personal property in his possession or under his control belonging to the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such writ.

SEC. 129. Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintifff
or his attorney, that any person has in his possession, or under his control,
any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or is
owing any debt to the defendant, the Sheriff shall serve upon such person a copy of the writ, and a notice that such credits, or other property
or debts, as the case may be, are attached in pursuance of such writ.

SEC. 130. All persons having in their possession, or under their
control, any credits or other personal property belonging to the defend‘ ant, or owing any debts to the defendant at the time of service upon
them of a copy of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two Seetions, shall be, unless such property is delivered up or transferred, or
such debts be paid to the Sheriff, liable to the plaintifff for the amount
. of such credits, property or debts, until the attachment be discharged
or any judgment recovered by him be satisfied.

SEC. 131. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in
his possession or under his control any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before the
Court, or Judge, or a referee appointed by the Court or Judge, and be
examined on oath respecting the same. The defendant may also be required to attend for the purpose of giving information respecting his
property, and may be examined on oath.” , 7The Court, or Judge, may,
after such examination, order personal preperty ca able of manual delivery.to;be delivered to the Sheriff on such terms 55 maybe just, hav‘
ing reference to any liens thereon or claims against the same, and a
memorandum to be given of all other personal property, containing the
amountand description thereof.

SEC. 132. The Sheriff shall make a full inventory of the property
attached, and return the same with the writ. To enable him to make

such returns as to debts and credits attached, he shall request at the
time of service the party owing the debt, or having the credit, to give
him a memorandum stating the amount and description of each ; and if
such memorandum be refused, he shall return the fact of refusal with
the writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum may be required to pay the costs of any proceeding taken for the purpose of
obtaining information respecting the amount and description of such
debt or credit. ,,

SEC. '133. If any of the pr0perty attached be perishable, the Sheriff
shall sell the same in the manner in which such property is sold on execution. The proceeds and other property attached by him shall be
retained by him, to answer any judgment that may be recovered in the
action, unless sooner subject to execution upon another judgment recovened previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and,credits
attached may be collected by him, if the same can be done without suit.
The Sheriff’s receipt shall be asufiicient discharge for the amount paid.

— SEC. 134. If any personal property attached be claimed by a third
person as his property, the Sheriff may summon a jury of six men to
try the validity of such claim; and such proceedings shall be had
thereon, with the like effect, as in case of a claim after levy upon execution. ‘

SEC. 135. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the Sheriff
shall satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which has not
been delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as hereinafter provided,
or subjected to execution on another judgment recovered previous to
the issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient- for that. purpose:
First—By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable prOperty sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him,

. or so much as shall be'necessary to satisfy the judgment. Second—If
any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been issued onthe
judgment, he shall sell under the execution, so much of the property,
real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough
for that purpose remain in his hands. Notice of the sales shall be
given, and the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on execution.

SEC. 136. If, after selling all the prOperty attached by him remaining in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the proceeds of any debts or credits collected by him, deducting the fees, to
the payment of the judgment, any balance shall remain due, the Sheriff
shall proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in other
cases. Whenever the judgment shall have been paid, the Sheriff, upon
reasonable demand, shall deliver over to the defendant the attached
pr0perty remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the judgment. ‘

SEC. 137. If the execution be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in
part, the plaintifff may prosecute any undertaking given pursuant to
Section one hundred and twenty-six, or Section‘one hundred and forty,
or he may proceed as in other cases upon the return of' an execution.

SEC. 138. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintifff.

any umlurtalting remain-«l in the action, all the proceeds of sales and
titular}! {'rtllt‘tflttl by the. Sheriff, and all the property attached remainin};t in the Sheriff’s lmmls, shall be delivered to the defendant 'or his
agent; the order of attachment shall be discharged and the property

released therefrom.

SEC. 139. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the action, he may apply, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff. to the Court
in which the action is pending, or to the Judge thereof, for an order to
discharge the attachment, wholly or in part, upon the execution and
filing of the undertaking mentioned in the next section. Such order
may be granted directing the release from the Operation of the attachment, upon the filing of such undertaking and the justification of the
sureties thereon, if required by the plaintifff, of all or any part of the property, money, debts or credits attached, as the case may be. All the
proceeds of sales and monies collected by the Sheriff, and all the
prOperty attached remaining in his hands, so released, shall be delivered
or paid to the defendant upon the filing of such undertaking and making
such justification, if required by the plaintifff.

SEC. 140. On granting such order the Court or the Judge shall
require an undertaking on behalf of the defendant, with at least two
sureties, residents and freeholders or householders in the county, which
shall be filed to the effect, in case the value of the prOperty or the amount
of money, debts or credits sought to be released shall equal or exceed
the amount claimed by the plaintifff in the complaint, that the defendant
will pay to the plaintifff the amount of the judgment which may be
recovered in favor of the plaintifff in the action, not exceeding the sum
specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least double the amount
so claimed by the plaintifff, and in the money or currency of the contract; or to the effect, in case the value of the property or the amount
of money, debts or credits sought to be released shall be less than the
amount so claimed by the plaintifff, that the defendant will pay the
amount of such judgment, to the extent of the value of the property,
or amount of money, or debts or credits sought to be released, not
exceeding the sum specified in .the undertaking, which shall be at least
double the value of such property, money, debts or credits, and in the
money or currency of the contract. The value of the property sought
to be released, if disputed, shall be determined, in the money or currency of the contract, by the Court or Judge thereof, upon proof, or by
a sworn appraiser or sworn appraisers, not exceeding three, to be
appointed by the Court or the Judge for that purpose. Before filing
the undertaking the defendant shall serve a copy thereof upon the
plaintifff, and if the plaintifff require a justification by the sureties, he
shall give notice thereof to the defendant within two days; or at the
time of giving notice of motion for an order to discharge the attachment,
the defendant may in his notice name the sureties, and if the plaintiE‘
require them to justify he shall give notice thereof at the hearing of the
‘ motion. If required, the sureties shall justify before the Court in which
the suit is pending, or the Judge thereof, after reasonable notice.

SEC. 141. The defendant may also, any time before the time of
answering expires, apply on motion, upon reasonable notice to the
plaintifff, to the Court in which the action is brought, or to the Judge
thereof, for the discharge of the attachment, on the ground that the
writ was improperly issued. 4

SEC. 142. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the par of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose t 3 same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those ondicb the writ of
attachment was issued.

SEC. 143. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily appear
that the writ of attachment was imprOperly issued, it shall be
discharged.

SEC. 144. The Sheriff shall return the writ of attachment with
the summons, it‘ issued at the same time; otherwise within twenty

days after its receipt, with a certificate of his proceeding indorsed
thereon or attached thereto. '

CHAPTER 5.—DEPOSIT IN COURT.

SEC. 145. \Vhen it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of
a party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money
or other thing capable of delivery, which being the subject of litigation
is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due
to another party, the Court may order the same, upon motion, to be
deposited in Court, or delivered to such party, upon such conditions as
may be just, subject to the further direction of the Court. SEC. 14 6. A receiver may be appointed by the Court in which the
action is pending, or by a Judge thereof: First—Before judgment,
provisionally, on the application of either party, when he establishes
a prima facie right to the property, or an interest in the property
which is the subject of the action, and which is in the possession of
an adverse party, and the property or its rents and profits are in
danger of being lost or materially injured or impaired. Second—
After judgment to dispose of the property according to the judgment,
or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal; and Third—In
such other cases as are in accordance with the practice of Courts
of Equity jurisdiction. '

TITLE VI.

0f the Trial and Judgment in Civil Actions.

CHAPTER l—JUDGMENI‘ IN GENERAL.

SEC. 147. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of
the parties in Jthe] action or proceeding, and may be entered in term
or vacation. lg }' 9 Mt , /:) é/

SEC. 148. Judgment may 1be given for or against one or more of
several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants;
and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves. ‘

SEC. 149. In an action against several defendants, the Court may,
in its discretion, renderjudgment against one or more of them, leaying
the action to proceed against the others whenever a several judgment
is prOper. ,

SEC. 150. The relief granted to the plaintim’if there be no answer,
shall r‘exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint;
but in any other case the Court may grant him any relief consistent
with the case ade by the complaint, and embraced within the issue.

SEC. 151. “Victim may be dismissed, or a judgment of nonsuit .t'lli~'l'='-l 3.; th -  xx-Engcases: First—By the plaintifff himself atany
llmv bulw- m-il. rip-in the payment of costs, if a caunter claim has not
limit mmh. h it 1.1-..visional remedy has been allowed, the ganderinking r-‘liltll ll]!.‘l‘t‘lll}t.t‘l be delivered by the Clerk to‘the defendant, Who

may have Ms action thereon. Qecond—By either party upon the
written consent of the other. T ird—By the Court when the plaintifff
fails to appear on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the
dismissal. Fourth—By the Court when upon trial and before the final
submission of the case the plaintifff abandons it. Fifth—By the Court;
upon motion of the defendant, when upon the trial the plaintifff fails to
prove a sufficient case for the jury. The dismissal mentioned in the
first two subdivisions shall [be] made by an entry in the Clerk’s register.

Judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly. In every other case
the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.

CHAPTER 2—JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

:1 SEC. 152. Judgment may be bad, if the defendant fail to answer
the complaint, as follows: F irst—In an action arising upon contract
for the recovery of money or damages only, if no answer has been
filed with, the Clerk of the Court within the time specified in the summons, or such further time as may have been granted, the Clerk, upon
the application of the plaintifff, shall enter the default of the defendant,

peand immediately thereafter enter judgment for the amount specified in

g. the summons, including the costs, against the defendant, or against one

7 or more of several , defendants,‘ in the cases provided for in Section
thirty-two. A Second—In other actions, if no answer has been filed with
the Clerk of the Court within the time specified in the summons, 01‘4
such further time as may have been granted, the Clerk shall enter the
default of the defendant; and thereafter the plaintifff may apply, at the
‘first, or any subsequent term of the Court, for the relief demanded in
the complaint. If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact,
be necessary to enable the Court to give judgment, or to carry the
judgment intoeffect, the Court may take the account, or hear the proof.
or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And
where the action is for the'recovery of damages, in whole or in part,
the Court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury; or, if, to
determine the amount of damages, the examination of a long account
be necessary, by a reference, as above provided. Third—In actions
where the service of the summons was by publication, the plaintifff,‘
upon the expiration of the time designated in the order of publication, ‘
thayfupon proof of the publication, and that no answer has been filed,
apply for judgment; and the Court shall thereupon require proof to be
made of the (hmand mentioned in the complaint, and if the defendant
be nota resident of the State, shall require the plaintifff, or his agent,
to be examined on oath respecting any payments that have been made
to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on account of such demand,

and may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover. ‘

CHAPTER 3.—-Or Issues, AND‘THE MANNER OF THEIR DISPOSITION. ’

SEC. 153. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law
maintained by the one party, and controverted by the other. Issue.
areof two kinds: First—Of law; and: Second—Of fact.

SEC. 154. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint, or an answer as to some part thereof.

SEC. 155. An issue of fact arises: First—Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the answer; and: Second—
Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of law is joined therein.

SEC. 156. An issue of law shall be tried by the Court unless it be

referred, upon consent, as provided in Chapter Six of this Title.
. SEC. 157. An issue of fact shall be tried by ajury, unless a jury
trial is waived, or a reference be ordered as provided in this Act.
Where there are issues, both of law and fact, to the same complaint,
the issue of law shall be first disposed of. '

SEC. 158. The Clerk shall enter cases upon the calendar of the
Court according to the date of the issue, unless otherwise provided by
rule of Court. ‘

SEC. 159. Either party may bring the issue to trial, or to a hearing, and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the Court for
good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case and take a
dismissal of the action, or a verdict or judgment, as the case may
require. '

SEC. 160. A motion to postpone a trial, on the ground of the absence of evidence, shall only be made upon affidavit showing the
materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to procure it. The Court may also require the
moving party to state upon affidavit the evidence which haexpects to
obtain ;“‘and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence
would be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial,
or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed.
The party obtaining the postponement of a trial shall also, if required
by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of
such adverse party who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition
before a Judge or Clerk of the Court in which the case is pending, or
before such Notary Public as the Court may indicate, which shall
accordingly be done, and the testimony so taken may be read on the
trial with the same effect, and subject to the same objections as if the
witnesses were produced. In actions involving the title to mining
claims and quartz ledges, if it, be made to appear to the satisfaction of
the Court that in order that . 1 slice may be done. and the action fairly
tried on its real merits, it is essary that further developments should
be made, and that the party plying has been guilty of no laches and
is acting in good faith, the t shall grant the postpOnement of the
trial of the action, giving th rty.a reasonable time in which to prepare f'or trial. And in' grant: g such postponement the Court may, in
its discretion, annex as a condition thereto,“ an order that the party
obtaining such postponement shall not, pending the trial of the action,
remove from the premises in controversy any valuable quartz rock,
earth or ores, and for any violation of an order so made, the Court or
the Judge thereof may punish for contempt, as in the cases of violation
:of an order of injunction, and may also vacate"the order of postponement.

   
  
   
 

CHAPTER 4.—TRIAL' BY JURY.

ARTICLE 1. ’ 
, wa‘t‘rt’
Formation of the Jury. J) g (x 
c f

V

SEC. 161. When the action is called for trial by jury, the Clerk .
shall prepare separate ballots, containing the names of' the jurors sum- ‘
moned who have appeared and not been excused, and deposit them in
a box. He shall then draw from the box twelve names, and the persons whose names are drawn shall constitute the jury. If the ballots
become exhausted before the jury is complete, or if from any cause a
juror or jurors be excused or discharged, the Sheriff shall summon,
under the direction of the Court, from the citizens of the county, and

not from bystanders, so many qualified persons as may be necessary
' to complete the jury. The jury shall consist of twelve persons, unless
the parties consent to a less number. The parties may consent to any
number not less than four. Such consent shall be entered by the
Clerk in the minutes of the , trial. '

SEC. 162. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or affirmation '
shall be administered to the jurors, in substance that they, each of 1
them, will yvell and truly try the matter in issue between , the
plaintifff, and , the defendant, and a true verdict render according to the evidence. After the oath or adirmation has been administered and the jury has been fully impanneled, it shall be the duty
of the Court to order the jury into the custody of the Sheriff, or
other officer selected by the Court, and the jurors shall not be allowed
to separate or’depart from the custody of the Sheriff, or other officer, until they have been duly discharged, unless by the consent of
the parties to the action. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff, at the
charge of the parties to the action, to prepare suitable and comfort' able apartments, and prepare food for the jury. pending the trial.

SEC. 163. Either party may challenge the jurors; but when there
are several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before
it can be made, unless the Court otherwise order or direct. The challenges shall be 'to individual jurors, and shall either be peremptory or
for cause. Each party shall be entitled to four peremptory challenges.

SEC. 164. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of
the following grounds: F irst—A want of any 'of the qualifications
prescribed by statute to render a person competent as a juror. Second-Consanguinity or afiinity within the third degree to either party.
Third—Standing in the relation of debtor or creditor, guardian and
ward, master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent
to either party; or being a member of thefamily of either party; or
a partner, or united in business with either party; or being security on
{my bond or obligation for either party. Fourth—Having served as a
Juror or been a witness on a previous trial between the same parties‘
for the same cause of action; or being then a witness therein. Fifth——
Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or in the
main question involved in the action; except the interest of the juror
38 a member or citizen of a municipal corporation. Sixth—Having
formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits
0f the action; or the main question involved therein; provided, that

l
l

 

 

the reading of newspaper accounts of the subject matter before the
Court shall not disqualify a juror either for bias or opinion. Seventh—The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity
against or bias to either party. .

SEC. 165. 'Challenges for cause shall be tried by the Court. The
juror challenged, and any other person, may be examined as a witness
on the trial of the challenge.

ARTICLE II.

Conduct of the Trial.

SEC. 166. If, after the impanneling of the jury, and before verdict
a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the Court

' may order him .to be discharged. In that case, the trial may proceed
with the other jurors, or a new  may be sworn, and the trial begin
anew; or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards impanneled.

SEC. 167. In charging the jury, the Court shall state to them all
matters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving

1 their verdict; and if it state the testimony of the case, it shall also
inform the jury that they are the exclusive judges of all questions of
fact. The Court shall furnish to either party, at the ‘time, upon
request, a statement in writing of the points of law contained in the
charge, or .shall sign, at the time, a statement of such points prepared
and submitted by the counsel of either party. On the trial, either
party may require the Clerk to take down the testimony in writing.

Sec. 168.- After hearing the charge, the jury may either decide in
Court, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept
together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place,
under the charge of one or more oilicers, until they agree'upon their
verdict, or are discharged by the Court. The officer shall, 'to the
utmost of his ability, keep the jury separate from other persons; he

V shall not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make any
himself, unless by order of the Court or Judge, except to ask them if
they have agreed upon their verdict; and he shall not, before the
verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their
deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon. »

SEC. 169. A Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with
them all papers (except depositions) which have been received as evidence in the cause, or copies of such papers as ought not, in the

7opinion of the Court, to be taken from the person having them in

possession ; and they may also take with them notes of the testimony,
or other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves or any of them;

i but none taken by any other person.

. SEC. 170. After the jury have retired for deliberation. if there be
a disagreement between them as 'to any part of the testimony, 'or if
they desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause,
they may require the officer to.conduct them into Court. Upon their
being [brought] into Court, the information required shall be given in
the 191w“ «sum of. or after notice to, the parties or counsel.

i'it-itj. 1?]. In all cases where a jury are discharged, or prevented
from giving :1 \‘tfl‘dlct by reason of accident or other cause during the
progress ei' the trial, or after the cause is submitted to~them, the action

may be again tried, immediately or at a future time, as the Court shall
direct.

SEC. 172. While the jury are absent, the Court may adjourn from
time to time in respect to other business, but it shall nevertheless be 4
deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to 7
the jury until a verdict is renderedor the jury discharged. The Court,
may direct the jury to bring in a sealed verdict at the Opening of the;
Court, in case of an agreement during a recess or adjournment for thej
day. A final adjournment of the Court for the term shall discharge‘
the jury. V

SEC. 173. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict they shall
be conducted into Court by the officer having them in charge. Their
names shall then be called, and they shall be asked by the Court, or
the Clerk, whether they have agreed upon their verdict; and if the
foreman answer in the afiirmative, they shall, on being required,
declare the same.

SEC. 174. If the verdict be informal or insufficient in not covering
the whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict may be corrected by
the jury under the advice of the Court, or’the jury may again be sent
out. . "3%?

SEC. 175. When the verdict is given and is not informal ofinsufiicient, the Clerk shall immediately record it in full in the minutes, and
shall read it to the jury, and inquire of them whether it be their verdict.
If more than one-feurth of the jurors disagree, the jury shall be again
sent out; but if no disagreement be expressed the verdict shall he

’ complete, and the jury shall be discharged from the case.

ARTICLE 3.
" l - ' The Verdict.

SEC. 176. The verdict of a jury is either general or special.
A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all
or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant;
a special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving
the judgment to the Court. The special verdict shall present the
conclusions of fact as established by the evidence, and not the evidence
to prove them ; and those conclusions of fact shall be so presented as
that nothing shall remain to the Court but to draw from them conclu'sions'of law.

SEC. 177. In an action for the recovery of money only, or Specific
real prOperty, the jury, in their discretion, may render a generalnor
special .verdict. In all other cases the Court may direct the jury to
find a special verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues, and in
all cases may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find
upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may
direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict of finding shall
be filed with the Clerk, and entered upon the minutes. Wherea
special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict,
the former shall control the latter, and the Court shall give judgment
accordingly.

SEC. 178. When a. verdict is found for the plaintifff, in an actiOn
for the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a counterclaim
forthe recovery oflmoney is established exceeding the amount of the

plaintifff’s claim as established, the jury shall also find the amount of
the recovery. SEC. 17 9. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the

/defendant, by his answer, claim a return thereof, the jury, if their
verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if, being in favor-the defendant,

ethey also find that he is entitled to a return thereof, shall find the value

90f the property, and may, at the same time, assess the damages, in gold
coin, if any are claimed in the, complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the taking or detention of such
property.

SEC. 180. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry shall be made by the
Clerk in the minutes of the Court, specifying the time of trial, the
names of the jurors and witnesses, and the verdict; and where a special
verdict is found, either the judgment rendered thereon, or if the case
be reserved for argument or further consideration, the order thus
reserving it.

CHAPTER 5—TRIAL BY Comm.

SEC. 181. Trial by jury may be waived By the several parties to
an issue of fact in actions arising on contract, and with the assent of
the Court in other actions, in the manner following: First—By failing
to appear at the trial. Second—By written consent, in person, or by
attorney, filed with the Clerk. Third—By oral consent in open Court,
entered in the minutes. 31'

*1. SEC. 182. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the Courtjit

. ecision shall be given in writing, and filed with the Clerk, withiné'

{days after the trial took place. In giving the decision, the facts f0 nd
and the conclusions of law shall be separate] stated. Judgment u on
the decision shall be entered accordingly4WfM2/5 l

’ SEC. 183. On ajudgment upon an issu of law, it’t e taking 0 an
account be necessary to enable the Court to complete the judgment a.

reference may be ordered. Chancery cases may be tried by the Court;
with or without the finding of a jury, upon issues formed by the Court.

' CHAPTER 6.—OF REFERENCES AND TRIAL BY REFEREE/Z:

A
SEC. 184. A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the

parties, filed with the Clerk, or entered in the minutes: First—To try‘
any or all of the issues in an action or proceeding whether of fact or of
law, and to report a. judgment thereon. Second—To ascertain a fact
necessary to enable the Court to proceed and determine the case.
SEC. 185. When the parties do not consent, the Court may, upon
the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the
following cases: F irst—When the trial of an issue of facts requires the
examination of a long account on either side; in which case the referees
may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or report upon any
specific question of fact involved therein. Second—When the taking
of an account is necessary for the information of the Court before
judgment, or for carrying a judgment or drder into effect. Third——
When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises upon
nmtinn w otherwise in any stage of the action; or, Fourth—When it
is necessary for the informatiOn;o.f the Court in a special proceeding.

SEC. 186. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons,
not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not
agree, the Court or Judge shall appoint one or more referees, not
exceeding three, who reside in the county in which the action or proceeding is trigile, and against whom there is no legal objection.

SEC. 187. Either party may object to the appointment of any
person as referee on one or more of the following grounds: First—A
want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render a per- ‘
son competent as a juror. Second—Consanguinity or affinity within
the third degree to either party. Third—Standing in the relation of
guardian and ward; master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party, or being a member of the family of
either party, or a partner in business with either party, or being
security on any bond or obligation for either party. Fourth—Having
served as a juror or been a witness on any trial between the same parties for the same cause of action, or being then a witness in the cause.
Fifth—Interest on the part of such person in the event of the action,
or in the main question invol‘Ved in the action. Sixth—Having
formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits
of the action. Seventh—The existence of a state of mind in such
person evincing enmity against or bias to either party.

SEC. 188. .The objections taken to the appointment of any person 3
as referee shall be heard and disposed of by the Court. Affidavits:
may be read and any person examined as a witness as to such ob-f
jections.
~ SEC. 189. The referees. shall make their report within ten days .
after the testimony before them is closed. Their report upon the:
whole issue shall stand as the decision of the Court, and upon filing
the report with the Clerk of the Court, judgment may be entered
thereon in the same manner as if" the action had been tried by the
Court. The decision of the referees may be excepted to and reviewed
in like manner as if made by the Court. When the reference is to
report the facts, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict.

‘ CHAl’TER 7.—-GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO TRIALS.

ARTICLE 1.

Exceptions.

SEC. 190. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a de- :
cision upon a matter of law, whether such trial he by jury, Court or ‘
referees, and whether the decision be m'ade during the formation of a
My, or in the admission of evidence, or in the charge to a jury, or at
any other time from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering
‘Of the Verdict or decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a
Inotion for a new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be mate“al. and affect the substantial rights of the parties. .

SEC. 191. The point of the exception shall be particularly stated, :
and may be delivered in writing to the Judge, or, if the party require
"a shall be written down by the Clerk. When delivered in writing,
01‘ written down by the Clerk, it shall .be made conformable to the ‘
truth, or be at the time corrected untilit issemade conformable. When 

not delivered in writing or written down as above, it may be entered
in the Judge’s minutes and afterwards settled in a statement 0 ' '
case, as provided in this Act; provided, that if the Judge sh (in
any case refuse to allow an exception in accordance with the facts, a);
party aggrieved thereby may petition the Supreme Court for leave i
.prove the same. and shall have the. right so to do, in such mode 
manner and according to such regulations- as the Supreme Court an ‘
by rules impose, and such exceptions as are allowed by said Supr’qm
Court shall become a part of the record of the cause. *4.
SEC‘ 192. No particular form of exception shall be required. Th
"objection shall be stated with so much of the evidence, or other mat:
ter, as is necessary to explain it, but no more, and the whole as hwy
as possible. a i; _
SEC. 193. When a cause has been tried by the Court, or by r
erees, and the decision or report is not made immediately after the
closing of the testimony,_ the decision or rep'ort shall be deemed ex’ cepted to on motion for a new trial or on appeal, without any special
notice that an exception is taken thereto.

 
    
     
   

ARTICLE 2.
New Trials.

of an issue of faCt in
ry, Court, or referees.
ision maybe vacated
he party aggrieved for
the substantial rights )

SEC. 194. A new trial is a re-examinati
the same Court after a trial and decision by
SEC. 195. The former verdict or other
and a new trial granted on the application

l any of the following causes materially affec.
of such party: First—Irregularity in the roceeding of the..Court,
jury, or adverse party, or any order of th A ourt, or abuse gidiscreu

  
   
  
    
   
    
  

tion by which either party was prevented: rom having a’ ir trial.
ifsecondi-Miscondnct of the jury. Third—Accident, or urpriseh

which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. Fourth—'
gNewly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered
Wand produced at the trial. Fifth—Excessive damages appearing to‘
' have been iven under the influence of -~ assion r re'udi e. Sixth—l4

g l) . 0 P J ‘3

alnsutiiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict' or other decision;
I. or that it is against law. Seventh—Error in law Occurring at the trial

and excepted to by the party making the application. M'Cp’39

SEC. 196. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in
the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions of the last section, itShall be made upon affidavit; for any other cause it shall be made
upon a statement prepared, as' provided in the next section. ,

SEC. 197. The party intending to move for a new that .shallgive:
notice of the same as follows  When the action has  tried by a
jury, within five days after the rendition of the Nerdict, and when the]
action has been tried by the Court or bya referee within ten days after .
receiving written notice of the rendering of the decision of the Judge:

or of the filing the report of the referee.¢"l‘he notice shall desngnate genel

4
I

rally the grounds {Illt'lll which the motion Will be made.“’/Withiu n“
days mitt/1‘ giving such notice the said party shallprepare and fileggith
the (Tilt-rlt the :illiiluvit 01‘ statement required by the last SQDM§~4‘

copy of the allitlavit shall on the same dayrbe-served. on  _

 

party. The party preparing the statement shall number the pages and
lines thereof, and after having filed the same with the Clerk, and had
such tiling entered and indorsed, shall serve the same on the adverse
party on the same day, who may propose amendments thereto, referring to the page and line of the statement, and shall within five days
after the service on him of the statement, file his amendment with the
Clerk, and after having such filing entered and indorsed, shall on the
Same day serve the same with the statement upon the moving party,
who shall within five days thereafter give written notice to the adverse,
party if he declines admitting the amendments, or they shall be deemed
accepted. At any time thereafter either party may have the statement
settled by the Judge ol‘ referee upon two days’ notice thereof to the
other party. If no attidavit or statement be filed within five days after
the notice of new trial, the right to move for a new trial shall be
deemed waived. When the notice designates as the ground upon
Which the motion will be made the insufliciency of the evidence, to
justify the verdict or other decision, the statement shall specify the particulars in which such evidence is alleged to be insufficient. When the
notice designates as the ground of the motion, error in law occurring at
the trial and excepted to by, the moving party, the statement shall
specify the particular errors upon which the party will reply. If no ,
such specifications be made, the statement shall be disregarded. The‘
statement shall contain so much of the Widence or reference thereto as
'may be necessary to explain the partiquar points thus specified and no
more. When the statement is a eed to it shall be accompanied with
the certiticate either of the parties themselves in fact, or their attorney,
7 that the same has been agreed upon and is correct. When settled by
' the Judge 'or referee, it shall be accompanied with his certificate that
the same has been allowed by him and is correct. When no amendments have been filed the statement shall be accompanied with the certiticate of the Clerk of that fact. On the argument reference may also
be made to the pleadings, depositiOns and documentary evidence on‘
file, testimony taken and written out by a short-hand reporter authorized by the Court to take the same, thud the minutes of the Court. If
the application be made upon allidavits filed the adverse party may use
counter atiidavits on the hearing. Any counter affidavits shall be filed
with the Clerk and copies served on the moving party, at least two days
‘ previous to the hearing. The affidavits and counter affidavits, or the
statement thus used, in connection with such pleadings, depositions,
rlocunnnnairy evidence in] file. testimrntv taken by a reporter and min- t

utesitil't'he Court as aw: l'l.':tll m' 'l‘t‘li'*I‘I't‘tl In on the hearing, shall constitute. without. further statenwnt, the llilltt’l‘r§ to be used on appeal from
the mater granting or refusing: the :mv trial. To identify the atiidavits,«
it. shall be satin-tent for tho. .lmlgv m' (‘lvrlt to indorse them at the time:ts having been read or l't‘li'l‘t't’tl tn till the hearing. To identify any
(lt_'.p()n'ith_)l18, (locnmentmg' r-x-itlcnt-n on file, testimony taken by a. re-‘

porter. or minutes‘ 0f the Court road or rvferred to on the hearing, it.
Shall In: sntlicicnt. that the .hnlgv designate them, as having been read
orrct'e-rred to in his certitimnc m in“ for that purpose by him made

thereon. The several lH‘l'ltleé nt' tinn- limited may be enlarged by the
Written agreement of the pnrthm ‘tl' nlmn good cause shown by the
Court or the Jutlg‘v llt'llll'l‘. whim] thv twill-+1.? was tried.

Slit}. 1513. The :lllltlll":tll<tll for :1 new trial shall be made at the car]lffet period [H'Hf'llt‘itlllt‘ elllt‘l‘ tiling: the :nlhlavit or statement, and the
Court or Judge granting rn' refusing .41 nt-wztrial shall state in writing
generally the grounds upon which the same is granted or refused.

CHAPTER 8.-THE MANNER 0F GIVING AND ENTERING JUDG.t' MENT. 1

SEC. 199. When trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be "entered by the Clerk in conformity to the verdict, within twenty-four
hours after the rendition of the verdict, unless the Court order the case
to be reserved for argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of 
proceedings. ‘

SEC. 200. When the case is reserved for argument or further consideration, as mentioned in the last Section, it may be brought by either
party before the Court for argumentSEC, 201. If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the 1
plaintifff ’s demand, so established, judgment for the defendant shall be t
given for the excess; or, if it appear that the defendant is entitled to
any other affirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.

SEC. 202. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or the value \
thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages .for the deten- l

. tion, or the value of the use thereof. If the property have been deliv- ‘
ered to 'the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment
for the defendant may be for a return of the property, or the value
thereof, in case a. return cannot be had, and damages for taking and
withholding the same, or the value‘of the use thereofXOIn an action on

, a contract or obligation for the direct payment of money, payable in a

especilied or agreed kind of money or currency, judgment for the plaintifff, whether the same be by default or after verdict, or decision of the

.Court or referee, may follow the contract or obligation, and be made
payable in the kind of money or currency therein specified or thereby
agreed. And in an action against any person for the recovery of money
received by such person in a fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another,
judgment for the plaintifff, whether the same be by default or after verdict, or decision of the Court or referee, may be made payable in the
same kind of money or; currency’ so received by such person; and‘in
all cases of damage the judgment shall be for gold coin. '

SEC. 203. The Clerk shall keep among the records of the Court a
book for the entry of judgments, to be called the “Judgment Book,” in
which each judgment shall be entered, and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action. '

SEC. 204.. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon any issue
of fact, and before judgment, the Court may nevertheless render judg    
  
    
    
  
  

ment thereon. Such judgment shall not be a lien - _' H311, -' jproperty

of the deceased party, but shall be payable in g... ‘_'   I, : ministration on his estate.   . ’

SEC. 205. Immediately after entering thejudgm -_'_'." '-' '_  lerk shall

- attach together and. file the following papers, which "  ' - stitute the

judgment roll : First—In case the complaint be note-f --' ..
defendant, the summons, with the affidavitor proof}; &' - ice, and. the
complaint, with a memorandum indorsed on the comp! nt that the default of the defendant in not answering was entered, and a copy of the
judgment. Second—In all other cases the summons, pleadings and a
copy of the judgment, and any orders relating to a change of the
parties. .

SEC. 206. Immediately after filing a judgment r011 the Clerk shall
make the proper entries of the judgment, under appropriate heads, in

yany

the docket kept by him, and from the time the judgment is docketed it.
shall become a lien upon .all the real property of the judgment debtor
not exempt from execution in the county, owned bygdaim at the time, or
which he may afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires. The lien
shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be previously satisfied. But the time during which the execution of the judgment is suspended by appeal or action of the Court or defendant, shall not be computed.

SEC. 207. The docket mentioned in the last section is a book;
which the Clerk shall keep in his office with each page 'vided into ‘
columns: Judgment debtors; judgment creditors; judgmgt; time of
entry; where entered in judgment book; appeals; when aken; judgment of Appellate Court; satisfaction of judgment; when entered.
If judgment be for the recovery of money or damages, the amount
shall be stated in the docket under the head of judgment ; if the judgment be for any other relief, a memorandum of the general character
of the relief granted shall be stated. The names of the defendants
shall be entered in the docket in alphabetical order.

SEC. .208. The docket kept by the Clerk shall be open at all times 7
during office hours for the inspection of the public, without .charge; 1
and it shall be the duty of the Clerk. to arrange the several dockets
kept by him in such a manner as to facilitate their inspection.

SEC. 209. A transcript of the original docket, certified by the4
Clerk, may be filed with the Recorder of any other county, and from ,
the time of the filing the judgment shall become a lien upon all the
real property of the'judgment debtor not exempt from execution in
such county, owned by him at the time, or which he may afterwards
acquire, until the said lien expires. The lien shall continue for two 1
years, unless ‘the judgment be previously satisfied. But the time '
during which the execution of the judgment is suspended by appeal,
01‘ action of' the Court or defendant, shall not he computed.

SEC. 210. Satisfaction of'ajudgment may he entered in the Clerk’s ;
docket upon an execution returned satisfied. or upon an arlumwlmi:_:— :
ment of satisfaction filed with the,Clerk, made in the unnum- of :m t
acknowledgment of a conveyance of real 1')l‘t'>[)t’.l'ly, by the judgmmt
. creditor, or within One year after the judgment, by the attorney, unless
arevocation of his authority be previously filed. Whenever a'judgment shall be satisfied in. fact, otherwise than upon execution, it shall
be the duty of the party or attorney to give such acknowledgment,
and upon motion the Court may compel it, or may order the entry of
, satisfaction to be made without it. A
  /“ w. _ .

5 :  1, ,TITLE VII.

. a of“; of the Judgment in Civil Actions.

 CHATTER 1.-,-THE EXECUTION. ' ya

 
 

 
 

SEC. 2 1. The party in whose favor judgment is given, miat
any time vithin five years after the entry thereof, issue a writ of  ecution to its enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter. . ' '

SEC. ’ 12. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of
‘ of Nevada,sealed with the seal. of the Court, and subscribed

by the Clerk, and shall be directed to the Sheriff, and shall intelligihly'
refer to the judgment, stating the Court, the county where the judgment roll is filed, the name of the. parties, the judgment, and if it be
for money, the amount thereof, and the amount actually due thereon,
and if made payable in a specified kind of money or currency as provided in Section Two Hundred and Two, the execution shall also state
the kind of money or currency in which the judgment is payable, and
shall require the Sheriff substantially as follows: First—If it be
against the property of the judgment debtorgit shall require the Sheriff
to satisfy t judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of
such debtmind it' sufficient personal property cannot be found, then
out of his r 1 property for if the judgment be a lien upon real property, then out of the real property belonging to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed, or if the execution be issued to a county
other than the one in which the judgment was recovered, on the day
when the transcript of the docket was filed in the ofiige of the Recorder of such county, stating such -day, or at any time thereafter.
Second—If it be against real or personal property in the hands of the
personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real pr0perty, or trustees, it shall require the Sheriff to satisfy, the judgment
with interest out of such property. Third—If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require the Sheriff to arrest such
debtor, and commit him to .the jail of the county until he pay the
judgment with interest or be discharged according to law. Fourth—
If it be issued on a judgment made payable in a specified kind of
money or currency as provided in Section Two Hundred and Two, it
shall also require the Sheriff to satisfy the same in the kind of money
or currency in which said judgment is made payable, and the Sheriff
shall refuse payment in any other kind of money or currency; and in
case of levy and safaof the prOperty of the judgment debtor, he shall
refuse payment from any purchaser at such sale in any other kind of
money or currency than that specified in the execution. The Sheriff
collecting money or currency in the manner required by this Act, shall
pay to the plaintifff or party entitled to recover the same, the same
' kind of ment-y or currency received by him, and in case of neglect or
refusal so to do, he shall be liable on his otiicial bond to the judgment
creditor in three times the amount of the money so collected. Fifth——
If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property.
it shall require the Sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at thr.
same time require the Sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or
profits, recovered by the same judgment out. of the personal preperty
of the party against whom it was rendered, and the value of the prep. erty for which the judgment was recovered. to be specified therein; it
a delivery thereof cannot be had, and if sutftcient personal property
cannot be found, then out of real property, as provided in the first
subdivision of this section.
Rice. 213. Whvn a writ of execution is. issued on  judgment

I‘Et‘ttVt‘I't‘tl against. two or more persons, in an action upon a" joint contract. in Witlt'll artion all the, defendants were not H'I‘Vt‘d with summons.
or {lltl not appear, it shall direct the Sheriff to satisfy the jar]; jtnent out
of the joint )H't'ttwl'ty of all the defendants, and the individual properly
only of the llt’ltflllltllllh' who were served. or who appettrr in the

action. In other t't'-.-‘|n:cts the writ shall contain the tlll‘CCllUllr‘ pecifietl

in subdit'isiotts one and four of the last section.

  

SEC. 214. The execution may be returnable at any time, not less '
than ten, nor more than sixty days after its recéipt by the Sheriff, to 1
the Clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed. "

SEC. 215. Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or :
the delivery of real or personal property, the same shall be enforced.1
in those respects by execution. .

SEC. 216. Where it requires the performance of any other act, a '
certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the party against
whom it is given, or upon the person or officer who is required thereby,
or by law, to obey the same and his obedience thereto engced.

Aux—4;.

SEC. 217. Notwithstanding the death of a party a the judgment, execution thereon may be issued, in case of the ath of the
' plaintifff, the same as if he were living, upon the application of, his‘
executor, or administrator, or successor in interest, to the Co rt in which
the judgment was rendered, and in case of the death of ;t I defendant
if the judgment besf'or; the recovery of real or personal property, execution may be issued against such property, in the same manner and
with the same effect as: if he were -'still living.

SEC. 218. Where the execution is against the property of the}
judgment debtor, it may be issued to the Sheriff of any county in the ,
State. Where it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it
shall be issued to the Sheriff of the county where the property, or

some partthereof, is situated. Executions may be issued at the same
time to different counties. '

SEC. 219. All goods, chattels, monies, and other property, real 1
and personal, of the judgment debtor, or any interest therein of the ;
judgment debtor not exempt by law, and all pr0perty and rights of

property seized and held under attachment in the action, shall be liable

.to execution. Shares and interests in any corporation 01' company,
and debts and credits, and other property not capable of manual delivery, may be attached in execution in like manner as upon writs of
attachment. Gold dust and bullion shall be returned by the otlieer as
so much money. collected, at its current. value, without. exposing the
same ta sale. Until... a levy, property shall not be affected by the
exeCution..

SEC. 220. If the property levied on be claimed by a third person
as his property, the Sheriff shall summon from his county six persons
' qualifiedas jurors between the parties, to try the validity of the claim.
He shall also give notice of the claim and of the time of trial to the
plaintifff, who may appear and contest the claim before the jury. The
jury and the witnesses shall be sworn by the Sheriff, and if their.- ver‘ dict. be in favor of the claimant, the Sheriff may relinquish the levy,
unless the judgment creditor give him a sufficient indemnity for. proceediug thereon. ' The fees of the jury, the Sheriff and the witnesses,
shall be paid by the claimant, if the verdict- be against him; otherwise
by the plaintifff. .

SEC. 221. The following property shall be exempt from execution,
except as herein otherwise specially provided: First—Chairs, tables,
desks and books to the value of one hundred ‘dollars, belonging to the
judgment debtor. Second—Necessary household, table and kitchen
furniture belonging to the judgment debtor, including stove, stove-pipe, ,
andmtove furniture, wearing apparel, beds, bedding and bedsteads‘, and;
provisions. and. firewood actually provided for individual or family use
sumcient- for one month. Third—The farming utensils or implements
" 0f husbandry of the judgment debtor; also, two oxen or two horses or

tho mules and their harness,‘two cows and one cart or wagon, and foodc
,for such oxen, horses, cows or mules for one month: also, all seed grain,
or vegetables actually provided, reserved or on hand for the purpose of
planting or sowing at any time within the ensuing six months, not
'exceeding in value two hundred dollars. Fourth—The tools and implements of a mechanic or artisan necessary to carry on his trade, the
instruments and chests of a surgeon, physician, surveyor and dentist,
necessary to the exercise of their profession, with their scientific and
professional libraries, and the law libraries of an attorney or counsellor,.
and the li aries of ministers of the Gospel. Fifth—The cabin or
dwelling 0% miner, not exceeding' in value the sum of live hundred
dollars ; al , his sluices, pipes, hose, Windlass, whim, derrick, cars,
pumps, ‘tools, implements and appliances necessary for carrying on any
kind of mi 'ng operations, not exceeding in value the aggregate sum
of five hu “ed dollars, and two horses, mules or oxen, with their harness, and food for such horses, oxen or mules for one month, when
necessary to be used for any whim, Windlass, derrick, car, pump, or
hoisting apparatus. Sixth—Two.oxen,two horses or two mules and
their harness, and one cart or wagon, by the use of which a cartman,
huckster, pedler, teamster or other laborer habitually earns his living;
and one horse, with vehicle and harness or other equipments, used by a
physician or surgeon or minister of the Gospel in making his professional visits, and also food for such oxen, mules or horses for one
month. Seventh—One sewing machine, not exceeding in value one
hundred and 6fty dollars, in actual use by the debtor or his family.
Eighth—All [ire engines, hooks and ladders, with the carts, trucks and
carriages, hose, buckets, implements and apparatus thereto appertaining, and all furniture and uniforms of any dre company or department now existing or which may be, under the laws of this State,
hereafter organized. Ninth—All arms, uniforms and accoutrements
required by law to be kept by any person. Tenth—All Court-houses,
jails, public Ollices and buildings, lots, grounds and personal pr0perty;
the fixtures, furnitm'c, books, papers and appurtenances belonging and
pertaining to the Conrt-hrmse, jail and public offices, belonging to any
county of this State ; and all cemeteries, public squares, parks and
places, public buildings, town halls, public markets, buildings for the
use of the tire departments and military organizations, and the lots and
ground thereto belonging and appertaining, owned or held by any town
or incorporated city, or dedicated by such town or city to health, ornament or public use, or for the use of any fire or military company now
existing, or which may be, under the laws of the State, hereafter
organized. Eleventh—No article or species of property mentioned in
this section shall be exempt from execution issued upon a judgment
recovered for its price, or upon a mortgage thereon,

. SEC}. 222. The Sheriff shall execute the writ against the property
’of the judgment debtor by levying on a sufficient amount of property,
if there be sufficient, collecting or selling the things in action, and selling
the other property, and paying to the plaintifff or his attorneys so much of
the proceeds as will satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with
the Clerk of the Court. Any excess in the proceeds over the judgment and the Sheriff’s fees shall be returned to the judgment debtor.
When there is more property of the judgment debtor than is suf‘ticient‘te
satisfy the j udgment and the Sheriff ’s fees within the view of the Sheriff,
he shall levy only on such part of the property as the judgment debtor
may indicate; provided, that the judgment .debtor, may indicate at the

time of the levy such part; and, provided, that the property indicated he
amply sufficient to'satisfy such judgment and fees.

SEC. 223. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof
shall be given as follows: First—In case of perishable property, by
posting written notice of the time and place of sale in three public
places of the township or city where the sale is to take place, for such
a time as may be reasonable, considering the character and condition of
the property. Second—In case of other personal property, by posting
a similar notice in three public places of the township or city wher'c the
sale is to take place not less than five nor more than ten days. Third—In
case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly describing the property, for twenty days, in three public places of the township
or city where the property is situated, and also where the prOperty is
to be sold. y. ‘

SEC. 224. An officer selling without the notice prescribed by the
last Section, shall forfeit five hundred dollars to the aggrieved party, in
addition to his actual damages ; and a. person willfully taking down or
defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of
the judgment, (if the judgment be satisfied before sale) shall forfeit five
hundred dollars tothe aggrieved party.

SEC. 225. All sales of prOperty under execution shall be made at
auction to the highest bidder, and shall be made between the hours of
nine in the morning and five in the afternoon. After sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold.
Neither the officer holding the execution, nor his deputy, shall become
a purchaser, or be interested in any purchase at such sale. When the
sale is (if personal property capable of manual delivery it shall be in
view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are
likely to brings the highest price; and when the sale is of real property, and consisting of several known lots or parcels, they shall be sold
separately, or when a portion of such real property is, claimed by a
third person, and he requires. it to be sold separately, such portion
shall be thus sold. All sales of real property shall be made at the
Court House of the County in which the property, or some part there-1
of, is situated. The judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may also
direct the order in which property, real or personal, shall be sold.
When such property consists of several known lots or parcels, or of
articles which can be sold to advantage separately, the Sheriff shall be
bound to follow such directions. 7 .

SEC. 226. If a'purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by him for
property struck off to him at a sale under execution, the officer may
again sell the property to the highest bidder, after again giving the notice hereinbefore provided, and if any loss be occasioned thereby from
the purchaser refusing to pay his bid, the. officer may recover the
amount of such loss with costs for the benefit of the party aggrieved by i
motion u’pon previous notice of five days to such purchaser before any
Cour-tof competent jurisdiction.

SEC. 227. Such Court shall proceed in a summary manner in the
hearing and disposition of such motion and give judgment and issue ex-ecution therefore forthwith, but the refusing purchaser may claim a jury.
And the same proceedings may be had against any subsequent purchaser who shall refuse to pay, and the officer may, in his discretion,
thereafter reject the bid of any person so refusing.

SEC. 228. The two preceding sections shall not be construed to
make the officer liable for any more than the amount bid by the sec~

ond, or subsequent purchaser, and the amount collected from the purchaser refusing to pay. SEC. 229. When the purchaser of any personal property capable
of manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the ofiic'er making
the sale shall deliver to the purchaser the property, and if desired shall
execute and deliver to him a certificate of the sale and payment. Such
certificate shall convey to the purchaser all the right, title and interest
which the debtor had in and to such property on the day the execution
was levied.

SEC. 230. When the purchaser of any personal property not capable of manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the ofi‘icer making the sale shall execute and deliver to the purchaser. a certificate of
sale and payment. Such certificate shall convey to the purchaser all
right, title and interest which the debtor had in and to such property
on the day the execution was levied.’

SEC. 231. Upon a sale of' real property, the purchaser shall be
substituted. to and acquire all the right, title, interest and claim of the

.judgment debtor thereto; and when the estate is less than a leasehold

of two years unexpired term, the sale shall be absolute. In all other
cases the real property shall be subject to redemption, as provided in
this Chapter. The officer shall give to the purchaser a certificate of
the sale, containing: First—A particular description of' the real property sold. Second—The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.
Third—The whole price paid Fourth—When subject to redemption
it shall be so stated; and when the judgment, under which the sale has
been made, is made payable in a specified kind of money or currency,
the certificate shall also state the kind of money or currency in which
such redemption may be made, which shall be the same as that specified in the judgment. A duplicate of such certificate shall be filed by
the officer in the office of the County Recorder of the county.

SEC. 232. Property sold subject to redemption, as providcdin the,
last section, or any part sold separately, .may be redeemed in the manner hereinafter provided by the following persons, or their successors‘
in interest: First—The judgment debtor, or his successor in interestsl
in the whole or any part of the property. Second—’EA creditor having:
a lien by judgment or mortgage on the property sold, or on some share,
or part thereof, subsequent to that on which the property was sold.
The persons mentioned in the second subdivision of this Section are,
in this Chapter, termed redemptioners. .

SEC. 233. The judgment debtor ora redemptioner may redeem
the property from the purchaser within six months after the sale, on
paying the purchaser the amount of his purchase, in the kind of
money or currency specified in the judgment, if any be specified, with
eighteen per cent. thereon in addition, together with the amount of any
assessmentcor taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon after
the purchase, and interest on such amount; and if the purchaser be
also a creditor, having a lien prior to that of a redemptioner other
than the judgment under which the purchase was made, the amount of
such lien, with interest. ~

SEC. 234. If' the prOperty be so redeemed by a redemptioner,
either the judgment debtor or another redemptioner may, within sixty
days after the last redemption, again redeem it from the last redemptimw. on paying the sum paid on such last redemption, with four per
amt. {lit-rum in addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes
which the said last redemptioner may have paid thereon after .‘the 1'0demption by him, with interest on such amount, and in addition, the
amount of any .liens heid by said last redemptioner prior to his own,
with interest: Provided, That the judgment under which the prOperty
was sold need not be paid as a lien. The property may be again, and
asoften as the debtor or a redemptioner is so disposed, redeemed from
any previous redemptioner within sixty days after the last redemption,
with-four per cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes which the last previous redemptioner paid after the redemption by him, with interest thereon, and the amount of any liens
other than the judgment under which the property was sold, held by
the said last redemptioner previous to his own, with interest. Notice
of redemption shall be given to the Sheriff. If no redemption be
made within six months after the sale the purchaser or his assignee
shall be entitled to a conveyance, or if the property be so redeemed,
whenever sixty days have elapsed and no other redemption has been
made, and notice thereof given, and the time for redemption shall
have expired, the last redemptioner or his'assignee shall be entitled to
the Sheriff’s deed. If the debtor redeem at any time before the time
for {he redemption expires,_the effect of the sale shall be terminated
and he be restored to his estate. , '

SEC. 235. The payment mentioned in the last two Sections may be
made to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, or for him
: to the officer who made the sale; and a tender of the money shall be
equivalent to payment so far as to effect a redemption of the property,
and all such payments or tender shall be made in the kind of money
or currency in which the last redemption was made, and in which the
lieu of such.redemption was payable. A person desiring to redeem
may demand of the purchaser, or last redemptioner, or his attorney in
fact, if he be absent from the county, in which the property is situate,
a statement in writing of all his claims and liens against the property to be paid on redemption, specifying each item; and if he fail to
furnish said statement within three days, then it shall only be necessary to a redemption to pay or tender the amount of the bid or the

last redemption, as the case may be, with the percentage allowed
added thereto.

SEC. 236. A redemptioner shall produce to the officer or person 1
from whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice to the,“
Sheriff: First—A copy of the docket of the judgment under which
he claims the right to redeem, certified by the Clerk of the Court,’

or of the county where the judgment is docketed; or if he redee'
upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of the record thereof certitied by
the Recorder.
lish his claim, verified by the affidavit of himself, or of subscribing
witnesses thereto; and: Third—An affidavit by himself, or his agent,
showing the amount then actually due on the lien.

SEC. 237. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption,
the Court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, or
may appoint a receiver to take charge of the property, or the proceeds
thereof, by order granted with or without notice, on the application of
the pugchaser or the judgment creditor. But it shall not be deemed
waste forthe person in possession of the property at the time of sale,
or entitled to possession afterwards, during the period allowed for
redemption, to continue to use it in the same manner in which it was
previously used; or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry; or
teapke the necessary repairs of buildings thereon; or to use wood or

Second—A copy of an assignment necessary to estab-3

timber on the property therefore; or for the repair of fences; or for
fuel in his family while he occupies the property.

SEC. 238. The purchaser from the time of a sale until a redemption, and a redemptioner from the time of his redemption until another
redemption, shall be entitled to receive from the tenant in possession,
the rents of the property sold, or the value of the use and occupation
thereof; provided, that in case the property shall be redeemed as provided in this chapter, the amount of such rents and profits which may
have been received by such purchaser or redemptioner, or which said
purchaser or redemptioner may have been entitled to claim or receive,
unless such claim shall be released to the person claiming such
right of redemption, shall be deducted from the amount which said
purchaser or redemptioner would be entitled 'to receive on such redemption.

SEC. 239. If the purchaser of real property sold on eXecution, or
his successor in interest, or a redemptioner be evicted therefrom in
consequence of irregularities‘in the proceedings concerning the sale or
of the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recoverthe price

aid, with interest, from the judgment creditor. If the purchaser of
iroperty at Sheriff ’s sale, or his successor in interest, fail to recover
possession in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning
the sale, or because the property sold was not subject to execution and
sale, the Court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such ‘
party in interest or his attorney, revive the original judgment for the
amount paid by such purchaser at the sale, with interest thereon from
the time of payment at the same rate that the original judgment bore,
and when so revived, the said judgment shall have the same effect as
an original judgment of the, said Court of that date, and bearing interest as aforesaid, and any other or after acquired property, rents, issues
or profits of the said debtor shall be liable to levy and sale under execution in satisfaction of such debt; provided, that no property of such
debtor bona fide sold upon the dling of such petition, shall be subject
to the lien of such judgment; and, provided further, that notice of the
filing of such petition shall be made by filing a notice thereof in the
office of the Recorder of the county where such property is situated,
and that said judgment shall be revived in the name of the original plaintifff or plaintifff's, for the use of said petitioner, the party in
interest.

CHAPTER 2.——PROGEEDINGs SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE
EXECUTION.

s o
to
u‘ ‘

SEC. 240. When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued
to the Sheriff 'of the county where he resides, or if he do not reside in
this State, to the Sheriff of the county where the judgment roll is filed,
is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at
any time after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order from
the Judge of the Court requiring such judgment debtor to appear and
answer upon oath concerning his property, before such Judge, or a
referee appointed by him, at a time and place specified in the order;
but no judgment debtor shall be required to attend before a Judge or
yell-Tm: [Hit of the county in which he resides, when’proceedings are
taken under the provisions of this chapter

SEC. 241. After the issuing of an execution against property, and
upon proof by atiidavit of a party, or otherwise to the satisfaction of
the Court, or of the Judge thereof, that any judgment debtor has
property which he unjustly refuses .to apply towards the satisfaction of
the judgment, such Court, or Judge, may by an order require the
judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place before, such
Judge, or a referee appointed by him, to answer concerning the same;
and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the
property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment,
as are provided upon the return of an execution. Instead of the order
requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the Judge may, upon
affidavit of the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if it appear to
him that there is danger of the debtor absconding, order the Sheriff to
arrest the debtor and bring him before such Judge. Upon being
brought before the Judge, he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking, with sutiicient surety, that he will attend from time to time
before the Judge, or referee, as shall be directed during the pendency
of proceedings, and until the final determination thereof, and will not
in the mean time dispose of any portion of his property not exempt from
execution. In default of entering into such undertaking, he may be
committed to prison.

SEC. 242. After the issuing of an execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the Sheriff the
amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy
the execution, and the Sheriff’s receipt shall be a sutiicient discharge
for the amount so paid.

SEC. 243. After the issuing or return of an execution against property of the judgment debtor,-or of any one of several debtors in the
same judgment, and upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the Judge that any person or corporation has property of such.
judgment debtor, or is indebted to himlin an amount exceeding fifty
dollars}the Judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation,:
or any oiiicer, or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and
place before him, or a referee appointed by him, and answer concerning
the same. g ,

SEC. 244. Witnesses may be required to appear apd testify before
the Judge, or referee, upon any proceeding under this chapter in the
same manner as upon the trial of an issue.

SEC. 245. The Judge, or referee, may order any property of the
judgment debtor not exempt from execution, in the hands of such
debtor, or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be
applied toward the satisfaction of the judgment; except that the earnings of the debtor, ot exceeding fifty dollars, for his personal services
at any time within t irty days next. proceeding the order. shall not be
so applied. when it shall be made to appear by the debtor’s affidavit, or
otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of a family
supported wholly or partly by his labor.

SEC. 246. If it appears that a person or corporation alleged to
have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an
interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, the Court
or Judge may authorize, by an order made to that effect, the judgment
creditor to institute an action against such person or corporation for:~ the
recovery of such interest or debt; and the Court or Judge may, by
order, forbid a transfer "or other disposition of such intereSt or debt,
until an action can be commenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such

order may be modified or vacated by the Judge granting the same, or
the Court in which the action is brought at any time, upon such terms
as may be juét. ‘

SEC. 247. If any erson, party, or witness, disobey an order of the
referee, properly madéP in the proceedings before him under this chapter,
he may be published by the Court or Judge ordering the reference for

a contempt.

TITLE VIII.

Actions in Particular Cases.

CHAPTER I.—ACTIoNs FOR THE FORECLOSURE or MORTGAGES.

SEC. 248. There shall be but one action for the recovery of any
debt, or the enforcement of any right secured by mortgage or lien, upon
'real estate, or personal property, which action shall be in accordance
Vwith the provisions' of this chapter. In such action judgment shall be
rendered for the amount found due the plaintifff, and the Court'shall
have power, by its decree or judgment, to direct a sale of the. encumbered property, (orisuch part thereof as be necessary) and the appli' cation of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs and expenses of the sale, the costs of the suitand the amount due to the
plaintili‘. If it shall appear from the Sheriff’s return that there is a
deficiency of such proceeds and a balance still due to the plaintifff, the
judgment shall then be docketed for such balance against the defendant
or defendants personally liable for the debt, and shall, from the time of
such docketing, be a lien upon the real estate of the judgment debtor,
and an execution may thereupon be issued by the Clerk of the Court,
in like manner and form as upon other judgments, to collect such balance or deficiency from the property of the judgment debtor.

SEC. 249. If there be surplus money remaining after payment of
the amount due on the mortgage, lien,‘or encumbrance, with costs, the
Court may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and in
the mean time may direct it to be deposited in Court. '

SEC. 250. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien, or encumbrance
is held, be not all due, so soon as sufficient of the property has been
sold to pay the amount due, with costs, the sale shall cease ; and afterwards, as often as more becomes due for principal or interest, the Court
may, on motion, order more to be sold. But it' the property cannot be
sold in portions, without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered
to be sold in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs paid, there
beipg a rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.

C

CHAPTER 2.—ACTIONS FOR NUISANCE, WASTE-AND WILLFUL
TRESPASS IN CERTAIN CASES, ON REAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 251. ' Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so
as to ihterfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a .
nuisance, and the subject of an action. Such action may be brought ‘

by an y person whose property is injuriously' affected, or whose personal

enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance; and by the judgment the nui— ‘
sauce may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.

SEC. 252. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant, or
tenant in comnfon of real pr0perty, commit waste thereon, any person
aggrieved by the waste may bring an action against him therefore, in
which action there may be judgment for treble damages.

SEC. 253. Any person who shall cut down, or carry off, any wood
or underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure.any tree or
timber on the land of another person, or on the street or highway in
front,of any person’s house, village or city lot, or cultivated grounds,
or on the commons or public grounds of any city or town, or on the
street or highway in front thereof, without lawful authority, shall be
liable to the owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the
amount of damages which may be assessed therefore, in a civil action
in any Court having jurisdiction.

SEC. 254. Nothing in the last section shall authorize the recovery
of more than the just value of the timber taken from uncultivated wood
land for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the .land, or
adjoining it. ,

SEC. 255. If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful
eptry in, or upon, or detention of any building or any uncultivated real

property, judgment may be entered for three times the amount at which
the actual damages are assessed. ‘

CHAPTER 3—ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO
REAL PROPERTY; AND OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO AeTIONS CONCERNING REAL Es ATE.  "(M -  594
£31.”)? 6‘0 Waiw)%ycyc.jg' .’

, EC. 256.. An action may be brough y any person in possession,
'by himself or his tenant, of real property, against any person who
1claims an estate or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such adverse claim, estate or interest.

SEC. 257. If the defendant in such action ,disclaim in his answer

any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken
against him without answer, the plaintifff shall not recover costs.

'SEC. 258. In an action for the recovery of real property, where
m‘plaintiff shows a right to recover at the time the action was comvmenced, but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment shall be according to the
fact, and the plaintifff may recover damages for withholding the
property. . ‘.

SEC. 2.5.9. When damages are claimed for withholding the property
recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been made by a
defendant or those under Whom he claims, holding under color of title
adversely to the. claims of the plaintifff, in good faith, the value of such
improvements shall be allowed as a set-off against such damages.

SEC. 260.‘ The Court in which an action is pending for the recovery of real property may, on motion, upon notice by either party,
for good cause shown, grant an order allowing such party the right to
enter upon the property and make survey and measurement thereof,
for the purposes of the action.

SEC. 261. The order shall describe the property, a copy thereof
Shall be served on the owner or occupant, and thereupon such party
may enter upon the property with necessary surveyors and assistants

and may make such survey and measurements; but if any unnecessary
injury be done to the property he shall be liable therefore.

SEC. 262. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a conveyance, whatever its term,.so as to enable the owner of the mortgage
to recover possession of the real pr0perty without a foreclosure and
sale.

SEC. 263. The Court may by injunction, on good cause shown, restrain the party in possession from doing any act to the injury of real
property during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon ; or after a sale
on execution, before a conveyance.

SEC. 264. When real property shall have been sold on execution,
the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his
interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for
injury to the property by the tenant in possession, after sale and before
possession is delivered under the conveyance.

SEC. 265. An action for the recovery of real property against a
person in possession cannot be prejudiced by an alienation made by
such person, either before or after the commencement of the action.

CHAPTER 4.—-AC'r10Ns FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
J‘hm .5 "5/

SEC. 266. When several persons hold and are in possession of real
property, as joint tenants or as tenants in common, in which one or
more of them have an estate of inheritance or for life, or lives, or for
years, an action may be brouoht by one or more of such persons for a
partition thereof, according toithe respective rights of the persons interested therein, and for a sale of such property or a part of it, if it appear
that a partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners.

SEC. 267. The interests of all persons in the property, whether
such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth in the complaint
specifically and particularly, as far as known to the plaintifff; and if
one or more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any
of the parties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise, or the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties
cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.

SEC. 268. No persons who have or claim any liens upon the property, by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, need be made parties to the
action, unless such liens be matters of record.

SEC. 269. Immediately after filing the complaint, the plaintifff shall
file with the Recorder of the county in which the property is situated,
a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the
parties so far as known, the object of the action. and a description of
the property to be affected thereby. From the time of the tiling it
shall be deemed notice to all persons. _

SEC. 270. The summons shall be directed to all the joint tenants,
and tenants in common, and all persons having any interest in, or any
liens of record by mortgage, judgment,-or otherwise, upon the pr0perty.
or upon any particular portion thereof; and generally to all persons
unknown who have or claim any interest in the prOperty.

SEC. 271. If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or any
mu; m‘ the known parties reside out of the State, or cannot be found
tlmw-in. and such fact is made to appear by atiidavit, the summons may
be SCH mi on such absent or unknown party by publication, as in other

cases. When publication is made the summons as published shall be
accompanied by a brief description of the property which is the subject
of the action.

SEC. 272. The defendants who have been personally served with
the summons, and a certified c0py of the complaint, shall set forth in
their answers, fully and particularly, the nature and \eXtent of their in-'
terest in the property, and if such defendants claim a lien upon the
pr0perty by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, they shall state the
amount and date of the same, and the amount remaining due thereon,
and whether the amount has been secured in any other way or not;
and if secured, the extent and nature of the security; or they shall be
deemed to have waived their rights to such lien.

SEC. 273. The rights of the several parties, plaintifffs as well as
defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by such action;
and when a sale of the premises is necessary, the title shall be
ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of the Court, before the‘
judgment of sale shall be made; and where service of the complaint,
has been made by publication, like proof shall be required of the
right of the absent or unknown parties, before such judgment is
rendered; except that where there are several unknown persons,
having an interest in the property their rights may be considered
together in the action, and not as between themselves. .

SEC. 274. 'The plaintifff shall produce to the Court, on the hearing
of the case, the certificate of the Recorder,of the county where the
property is situated, showing whether there were or not any liens
outstanding of record upon the propertygor any part thereof, at the
time of the commencement of the action. ,

SEC. 275. If it shall appear to the Court, by the certificate of
the County Recorder or County Clerk, or by the sworn or verified
,statement of any person who may have examined or searched the
records, that there are outstanding liens or encumbrances of record
‘upon such real prOperty or any part thereof, which existed and
were of record at the time of the commencement of said action, and
the persons holding such liens are not made parties to the action,
the Court shall either order such persons to be made parties to the
action, by an amendment or supplemental complaint, or appoint a
referee to ascertain whether or not such liens or encumbrances have
been paid, or if not paid, what amount remains due thereon, and
their order ameng the liens or encumbrances severally held by the
said persons and the parties to said action, and whether the amount
remaining due thereon has been secured in any manner, and if
secured, the nature and extent of the security.

SEC. 276. The plaintifff shall cause .a notice to be served a
reasonable time previous to the day for appearance before the referee
appointed, as provided in the last section, on each person having
outstanding liens of record who is not a party to the action, to appear
before the referee at a specified time and place to make proof, by
his own affidavit or otherwise, of the true amount due or to become
due, contingently or absolutely, thereon. In case such person be
absent, or his residence be unknown, service may be made by publication or notice to his agents, under the direction of the Court, in
such manner as may be prOper. The report of the referee thereon
shall be made to the Court, and shall be confirmed, modified or set
aside and a new reference ordered, as the justice of case may
require.

SEC. 277. If it be alleged in the complaint, and be established by
evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation in the
complaint, to the satisfaction of the Court, that the pr0perty, or‘ any
part of it, is so situated that partition cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners, the Court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being made, it shall order a partition
according to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the

~Court, and appoint three referees therefore; and shall designate the
portion to remain undivided for the owners whose interests remain
unknown or are not ascertained.

SEC. 278. In making the partition the referee shall divide the prop.
erty and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties,
quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective
rights of the parties, as determined by the Court, designating the several
portions by proper landmarks; and may employ a surveyor, with the
necessary assistants, to aid them therein.

SEC. 279. The referees shall make a report of their proceedings,
specifying therein the manner of executing their trust,'describing the
property divided and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular
,description of each share.

SEC.- 280. The Court may confirm or set aside the report, and if
necessary appoint new referees. Upon the report being confirmed,
judgment shall be rendered that such partition be effectual forever,
which judgment shall be binding and conclusive: First—On all persons
named as parties to the action, and their legal representatives, who have
at the time any interest in the property divided, or any part thereof, as
owners in fee, or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to the
reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property, or of any part
thereof, after the termination of a particular estate therein, and who, by
any contingency, may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property,
or who have an interest in anyundivided share thereof as tenants for
years or for life. Second—On all persons interested in the prOperty
who may be unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of the
action for partition by publication; and Third—On all other persons
claiming from such parties or persons, or' either of- them.

SEC- 281. But such judgment and partition. shall not affect tenants
for years less than ten, to the whole of the property which is the subject
of the partition. . v

f SEC. 282. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor and his assistant, when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed
by the Court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed
by law to the referees, shall be apportioned among the diiferent parties
to the action.

SEC. 283. When a lien is on an undivided interest or‘ estate of any
of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thenceforth be a
charge only on the share assigned to such party, but such share shall
be first charged with its just proportion of the “costs of the partition, in
preference to such lien.

SEC. 284. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold,

' if there be an estate for life or years in an undivided share of the whole
property, such estate may be set off in any part of the property not ordered to be sold.

F SEC. 285. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property

‘ shall be applied, under the direction of the Court, as follows: First-—
To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action. Second—To pay the costs of the reference. Third—To satisfy and cancel of
record the several liens in their order of priority, by payment of the
sums due and to become due; the amount due to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment. Fourth—The residue among the owners
of the prOperty sold, according to their respective shares therein. SEC. 286. Whenever any party to an action who holds a lien upon
the property, or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment
of the amount of such lien, the Court may, in its discretion, order such
securities to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale,
or may order a just deduction to be made from the amount of the lien
on the prOperty on account thereof.

SEC. 287. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the
referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the Court so directs. But in case no
direction be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into
Court, or deposited therein, or as directed by the Court.

SEC. 288. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and who are known,
are paid into Court, the action may be continued as between such parties, for the determination of their respective claims thereto, which shall
be ascertained and adjudged by the Court. Further testimony may be
taken in Court, or by a referee at the discretion of the Court, and the
Court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or
law in controversy, by pleadings, as in an original action.

SEC. 289. All sales of real property, made by referees under this
chapter, shall be made by public auction to the highest bidder, upon
notice published in the manner required for the sale of real pr0perty
on execution. The notice shall state terms of sale, and if the property
or any part of it is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge or lien,
that shall be stated in the notice.

SEC. 290. The Court shall, in the order for sale, direct the terms of
credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of any portion of
the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit, and for that portion of which the purchase money is required, by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested'for the benelit of unknown owners, infants, or parties out of the State.

SEC. 291. The referees may take separate mortgages and other securities for the whole or convenient portions of the purchase money, of
such parts of the property as are directed by the Court to be sold on
credit, for the shares of any known owner of full age, in the name of
such owner, and for the shares of an infant, in the name of the guardian of such infant, and for other shares, in the name of the Clerk of
the county and his successors in office. '

SEC. 292. The person entitled to a tenancy for life or years, whose
estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive such sum as
may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and which the
Penon so entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by an instrument in writing, filed with the Clerk of the Court. Upon the filing of
Sélch consent, the Clerk shall enter the same in the minutes of the

ourt. -°

SEC, 293. If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as proVlded in the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered,
the Court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds
0f the sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum
‘0 be allowed on account of such estate, and shall order the same to be

paid to such party, or deposited in Court for him, as the case may
require.

SEC. 294. If the person entitled to such estate for life or years be
unknown, the Court shall provide for the protection of their rights in
the same manner, as far as may be, as if they were known and had
appeared.

SEC. 295. In all cases of sales, when it appears that any person
' has a vested or contingent future right or estate in any of the prOperty
sold, the Court shall ascertain and settle the proportional value of such
contingent or vested right or estate, and shall direct such proportion of
the sale to be invested, secured or paid over, in such manner as to
protect the rights and interests of the parties. _

SEC. 296. In all cases of sales of property, the terms shall be made
known at the time ; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or lots,
they shall be sold separately. '

. SEC. 297. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of

either of them, shall be' interested in any purchase ; nor shall a guardian of an infant party interested in the purchase of any real property,
being the subject of the action, except for the benefit of the infant.‘ All
sales contrary to the provisions of this Section shall be void.

SEC. 298. After completing a sale of the property, or any part
thereof ordered to be sold, the referee shall report the same to the
Court, with a description of the different parcels of land sold to each
purchaser; the name of the purchaser; the price paid or secured; the
terms and conditions of the sale; and the securities, if any taken. The
report shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the county where the
property is situated.

SEC. 299. If the sale be confirmed by the Court, an order shall be
' entered directing the referees to execute conveyances and take securities pursuant to such sale; which they are hereby authorized to do.
Such order may also give directions to them respecting the disposition
of the proceeds of the sale.

SEC. 300. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an
encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a
purchaser, the referees may,take his receipt for so much of the pro- t
ceeds of the sale as belongs to him.

SEC. 301. The conveyances shall be recorded in the county where
the premises are situated, and shall he a bar against all persons interested in the property in any way, who shall have been named as parties in’ the action, and against all such. parties and persons as were
unknown if the summons have been served by publication, and against
all persons claiming from them, or either of them. .

SEC. 302. When there are proceeds of a sale belongingto an un.
known owner, or to a person without the State, who has no legal representative within it, the same shall be invested in securities or interest
for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.

SEC. 303. When the security of the proceeds of the sale is taken,
or when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be done,
except as herein otherwise provided, in the name” of the Clerk of the
county where the papers are filed, and his successors in office, who shall
hold the same for the use and benefit of the parties interested ; subject
to the order of the Court.

SEC. 304. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and
the parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing
under their hands delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and

proportions to which they are respectively entitled; or when shares
and proportions have been previously adjudged by the Court, such
securities shall be taken in the names of, and payable to, the parties
respectively entitled thereto; and shall be delivered to such parties
upon their receipt therefore. Such agreement and receipt shall be returned and filed with the Clerk.

SEC. 305. The Clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by
whom an investment is made, and his successors in office, shall receive
the interest and principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the
same as the Court may direct, and shall file in his othce all securities
taken, and keep an account in a book provided and kept for that purpose in the Clerk’s office, free for inspection by all persons, of investments and monies received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

SEC. 306. When it a pears that partition cannot be made equal
between the parties according to their respective rights, without prejudice to the rights and interest of some of them, and a partition be
ordered by judgment, the Court may adjudge compensation to be made
by one party to another, on account of the inequality of partition. But
such compensation shall not be required to be made to others by owners
unknown, nor by infants, unless in case of an infant it appear that he
has personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that his interest
will be promoted thereby.

SEC. 307. When the share of an infant is sold the proceeds of the
sale may be paid by the'referee making the sale, to his general guardian or the special guardian appointed for him in the action, upon. giving the security required by law or directed by order of the Court.

SEC. 308. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and ;
management of the estate of an insane person, or other person ad- ‘
judged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real
property shall have been sold, may receive, in behalf of such person,
his share of the proceeds of such ‘real prOperty, from the referee, on
executing, with sufficient sureties, an undertaking approved by a Judge
of the Court, that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed in‘him,
and will render a true and just account to the person entitled, or to his
legal representative.

SEC. 309. The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian I
entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane per- 1
son, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, :
who is interested in real estate held in- joint tenancy, or in common, or
in any other manner so as to authorize his being made a party to an
action for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and agree upon the share to be set off to such infant or other person entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf to the owners of
the shares of the parts to which they may be respectively entitled,
upon an order of the Court.

SEC. 310. The costs of partition, including fees of referees and 1
other disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled 1
to share in the lands divided, in pr0portion to their respective interests
therein, and may be included and specified in the judgment. In that
case they shall be a lien on the several shares, and the judgment may
be enforced by execution against such shares, and against other property held by the respective parties. When, however, a litigation arises
between some of the parties only, the Court may require the expense
of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

SEC. 311. The Court, with the consent of the parties, may appoint

a single referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings under the
provisions of this chapter, and the single referee, when thus appointed,
shall have all the powers and perform all the duties required of the
three referees. 9

SEC. 312. When the action is for partition of a mining claim
among the tenants in common, joint tenants, coparceners or partners
thereof, the Court, upon good cause shown by any party or parties in
interest, may, instead of ordering partition to be made in manneras
hereinbefore provided, or a sale of the premises for cash, direct the
referees to divide the claim in the manner hereinafter specified.

SEC. 313. The Court shall in its order, or by a subsequent order
made upon motion, fix the time for division of the claim by the referees, which shall not be less than twenty nor more than forty days
from the day of making the order, except by consent of all the parties
in interest who have appeared in the action.

SEC. 314. On the day designated in the order, the referees shall
go upon the claim to be divided and proceed to make division of the
same as hereinafter provided, and shall continue from day to day until
the whole business is completed. .

SEC. 315. Two or more of the tenants in common, joint tenants,
c0partners or parceners may unite together for the purposes of such
division, of which they shall give the referees written notice before
they commence the business of division ; and all who do not unite as
aforesaid, or give notice of separate action, shall, for the purposes of
division, be deemed and held to have united. The referees in their
action shall recognize those named in the order of the Court, or their
agents and attorneys in fact, duly appointed by instrument in writing
under seal, and acknowledged as in cases of conveyances of real
estate, the guardian of an infant 'and the guardian entitled to the
custody and’management of the estate of an insane person or other
person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, and as to
the interest of each, shall be controlled entirely by the order of the
Court. .

SEC. 316. At the time and place of division one of the referees
. to be selected by them shall in the manner of public auction offer to
the party or parties who will take the least part or portion of said
mining claim in proportion to the interest he or they may have therein,
the privilege of first selecting the place at which his portion shall
be located, and upon closing the bids the referees shall proceed to
measure and mark off, by distinct metes and bounds, to the lowest
bidder, his or their portion of saidmining claim, at the place. designated by them or him, according to the terms of his or their bid.

SEC. 317. When the referees have marked off and set apart the
interest of the lowest bidder, as provided in the last section, they shall

offer to the remaining parties the privilege of selection as in said
section mentioned and described, and shall, upon closing the bids, proceed in the same manner to locate and mark off theportion of the
lowest bidder, and shall thereafter continue in the same manner to receive
bids and mark off the interest of the bidder or bidders until there
shall remain but one party in' interest, or parties united, forming one
interest, as provided in Section three hundred and fifteen.

SEC. 318. The party or parties-remaining as provided in the last
section, shall lmnme the owner or owners, as the case may be, of the
entire claim not marked off and set apart to other parties as hereinbefore provided, in proportion to their respective interests in the claim.

SEC. 319. The referees shall return, with their report in this Act
required to be made by them, the evidences of authority presented
to them by persons other than the parties mentioned in the order of
the Court by ‘hich they claim the right to bid, or otherwise act,
during the proceedings hereinbefore mentioned.

CHAPTER 5—ACTIONS FOR THE USURPATION OF AN OFFICE
0R FRANCHISE.‘

SEC. 320. An action may be brought by the Attorney-General in
the name of the peeple of this State upon his own information, or on
the complaint of a private party, against any person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any public oiiice, civil
or military, or any franchise within this State, And it shall be the
duty of the Attorney-General to bring the action whenever he has
reason to believe that any such office or franchise has been usurped,
intruded into, or unlawfully held or exercised by any person, or when
he is directed so to do by the Governor.

SEC. 321. Whenever Such action is brought, the Attorney-General,
in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set forth
in the complaint the name of the person rightly entitled to the office,
with a statement of his right thereto; and in such case, upon proof by
atl‘idavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging
to the ofIice, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be
granted by a Judge of the Supreme Court, or a District Judge, for
the arrest of such defendantt and holding him to bail; and thereupon
he may be arrested and held to bail, in the same manner and with the
same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities as in other
civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.

SEC. 322. In every such case judgment may be rendered upon
the right of the defendant and also upon the right of the party so
alleged to be entitled; or only upon the right of the defendant, as
justice shall require. ,

SEC. 323. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person,
he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of offlce and executing such
official bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the execution of the office. ‘ T

SEC. 324. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person
so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover by
action the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the
usurpation of the office by the defendant.

SEC. 325. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same
office or franchise, one action may he brought against all such persons,
in order to try their respective rights to such office or franchise.

SEC. 326. When a defendant, against whom such action has been
brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping, or intruding into, or unlawfully holding any office, franchise or privilege, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from the office, franchise or
privilege, and that he pay the costs of the action. The Court may,
also, in its discretion, impose upon the defendant a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, which tine, when collected, shall be paid into
the‘Treasury of the State. ‘

TITLE IX.

’ 2.2
0f Appeals in Civil Actions. , 6 4/ “3

{Jet/.14
CHAPTER 1.——APPEALS IN GENERA .

SECTION 327. A judgment or order in a civil action, except when
expressly made final by this Act, may be reviewed as prescribed by
this title. and not otherwise.

SEC. 328. An order made out. of Court, without notice to the
adverse party, may be vacated or modified without notice, by the Judge
who made it, or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the manner
in which other motions are made.

SEC. 329. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed
in this title. The party appealing shall be known as the appellant,
and the adverse party as the respondent.

SEC. 330. An appeal may be taken: First—from a final judgment
in an action or special proceeding commenced in the Court in which
the judgment is rendered, “within one year after the rendition of judgment. Second— From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an
inferior Court, within ninety days after the rendition of the judgment.
Third rom an order granting or refusing a new trial, from an order
granting”or dissolving an injunction, and from an order refusing to
grant or dissolve an injunction, and from any special order made after;
'the final judgmenfwithin sixty days after the order is made and:
entered in the minutes of the Court. Fourth-'——From an interlocutory
’;judgment or order in cases of partition which determines the right of
ythe several parties, and directs partition, sale or division to be made,
within sixty days after the rendition of the same.

SEC. 331. The appeal shall be made by tiling with the Clerk of the
l{Court with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, a
notice stating the appeal from the same, or some specific part thereof,
and serving a cOpy of the notice upon the adverse party or his attorney.

S’EC. 332. When the party who has the right to appeal wishes a
"statement of the case to be annexed to the record of the judgment or
gig, he shall, within twenty days after the entry of such judgment or
order, prepare such statement, which shall state specifically the particular errors or grounds upon which he intends to rely on the appeal,
and shall contain so much’of the evidence as may be necessary to
(explain the particular errors or grounds specified and no more, and
shall file the same with the Clerk, and serve a copy thereof upon the
adverse party. The respondent may, within five days thereafter, prepare and file amendments to the statement,and shall serve a copy
thereof 'on the appellant; the statement and amendments shall be‘pre-‘t
sented to the Judge or referee who tried or heard the case, upon notice-l
of two days to the respondent, and a. true statement shall thereupon be,
settled by such Judge or referee. If no amendments are filed, the:
statement may be presented to the Judge or referee for'settlement.
without any notice to the respondent. ,

SEC. 333. 'If the party shall omit to make a statement within th
time limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right thereto; é
.when a statement is made and the parties shall omit within the seve
times above limited, the one party to propose amendments, the other

to notify an appearance before the Judge or referee, they shall respectively be deemed, the former to have agreed to the statement as prepared, and the latter to have agreed to the amendments as proposed;
but the Judge or referee who tried or heard the case shall, notwithstanding such omission or implied agreement, have power to
iady misstatement of .his rulings which such statement may
contain. ‘

SEC. 334. The several periods of time above limited may be
enlarged, upon good cause shown, by the Judge before whom the cause
was tried.

SEC. 335. The statement, when settled by the Judge or referee,
shall be signed by him, with his certificate that the same has been
allowed and iscorrect. When the statement is agreed upon by the
parties, they or their attorneys shall sign the same, with their certificate
that it has been agreed upon by them and is correct. In either case,
when settled or agreed upon, it shall be filed with the Clerk.

SEC. 336. A copy of the statement shall be annexed to a copy of
the judgment roll, if the appeal be from a judgment; if the appeal be
from an order, to a copy of such order.

SEC. 337. The provisions of the last five preceding sections shall not
apply to appeals taken from anorder made upon affidavit filed, but
such affidavit shall be annexed to the order, in the place of the state' ment mentioned in those sections.

SEC. 338. Upon an appeal from a judgment the Court may review
any intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily affecting
the judgment.

SEC. 339. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order," the Appellate
Court may reverse, atiirm or modify the judgment or order appealed
from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any
or all of the parties; and may set aside, or confirm, or modify, any on
all of the proceedings subsequent to or dependent upon such judgment
or order, and may, if necessary or pr0per, order a new trial. When
the judgment'or order is reversed or modified, the Appellate Court may
make complete restitution of all prOperty and rights lost by the erroneous judgment or order, and when it appears to the Appellate Court
that the appeal was made for delay, it may add to the costs @011
damages as may be just. . ‘2

SEC. 340. On an appeal from a iinal judgment, the appellant shall
‘ furnish the Court with a transcript of the notice of appeal, and the
statement, if there be one, certified by the respective attorneys of the
parties to the appeal, or by the Clerk of the Court. On an appeal
from a judgment rendered on an appeal‘or from an order,the appellant
7 shall furnish the Court with a copy of the notice-of appeal, the judg. ent or order appealed from, and a copy of the papers used on the
hearing in the Court below, such copies to be certified in like manner
to be correctJJf any Written opinion be placed on file in rendering
judgment or making the order in the Court below, a copy shall be furnished, certified in like manner. If the appellant fail to furnish the
requisite papers, the appeal may be dismissed. ‘

SEC. 341. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, in any'
case, a written undertaking shall be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will
payvall damages and costs which may be awarded against him on the
apml; not exceeding three hundred dollars, or that sum shall be deposited with the Clerk with whom [the] judgment or order was entered,
toabide the event of the appeal. Such undertaking shall be filed, or‘

'such deposit made with the Clerk, withirfhve days after the notice of
appeal is filed.

SEC. 342. If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing the
payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgmentor
order unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant by two or more sureties, stating their places of residence and
occupation, to the effect that they are bound in double the amount
named in the judgment or order; that if the judgment or order appealed from, or any part thereof be affirmed, the appellant shall. pay
the amount directed to be paid by the judgment or order, or the part of
such amount as to which the judgment [or] order shall be afiirmed, if
allirmed only in part, and all damages and costs which shall be awarded
against the appellant upon the appeal. When the judgment or order
appealed from is made payable in a specified kind of money or ourrency, the undertaking required by this Section shall be drawn and
made payable in the same kind of money or currency specified in such
judgment or order. ‘

SEC. 343. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the assignment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the judgment or order shall not he stayed by appeal, unless the
things required to be assigned or delivered be placed in the custody of
such officer or receiver as the Court may appoint; or unless an undertaking be entered into on the part of the appellant, with at least
two sureties, and in such amount as the Court or the Judge thereof
may direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order of the
Appellate Court upon the appeal.

SEC. 344. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment or order shall not he stayed by the appeal until the instrument
is executed and deposited with the ‘Clerk with whom the judgment or
order is entered, to abide the judgment of the Appellate Court.

SEC. 345. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the sale
‘or delivery of possession of real pr0perty, the execution of the same
shall not he stayed unless a written undertaking be executed on the
par! of the appellant, with two or more sureties, to the effect that during the possession of such property by the appellant he will not commit, nor suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the
judgment be affirmed he will pay the value of the use and occupation
of the property from the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not exceeding a sum to
be fixed by the Judge of the Court by which the judgment was rendered or order made, and which shall be specified in the undertaking.
When the judgment is for the sale of mertgaged premises. and the
payment for a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall
also provide for the payment of such deficiency. In all other cases
not hereinbefore mentioned the amount of the undertaking to- stay the
execution of the judgment or order shall be fixed by the Court or the
Judge thereof. ‘

SEC. 346. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided .by the
preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all further proceedings

Iin the Court below, upon the judgment or order appealed from, or
upon multtrl.‘ mnliraced therein; but the Court below may proceed upon
any other matter included in the action and not affected by the judgment or order appealed from. And the Court below may, in its discretion, dispense with Or limit the security required by said sections,

when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee or other per‘son acting in mother’s right.

SEC. 347. The undertaking prescribed by Sections three hundred
and forty and three hundred and forty-one, three hundred and fortytwo and three hundred and forty-three, may be in one instrument or
several at the option of the appellant.

SEC. 348. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect
unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of thesureties that they are
each worth the amount specified therein over and above all their just
debts and liabilities, exclusive of the property exempt from execution,
except where the judgment exceeds three thousand dollars and the undertaking on appeal is executed by more than two sureties, they may
state on their affidavit that they are severally worth amounts less than
that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent
to that of two sufficient sureties. The adverse party may, however,
except to the sufficiency of the sureties within five days after the filing
of the undertaking, and unless they or other sureties justify before the
Judge of the Court below, or Clerk, within five days thereafter, upon
notice to the adverse party, to the amounts stated in their affidavits, the
appeal shall be regarded as if no such undertaking had been given;
and in all cases where an undertaking is required on appeal by the
provisions of this chapter, a deposit in the Court below of the amount of
the judgment appealed from, and three hundred dollars in addition,
shall be equivalent to filing the undertaking, and in all cases the undertaking or deposit may be waived by the written consent of the
respondent.

SEC. 349. In cases not provided for in Sections three hundred and
forty-one, three hundred and forty-two, three hundred and forty-three
and three hundred and forty-four, the perfecting of an appeal by giving
the undertaking, and the justification of the sureties thereon, if required,
or making the deposit mentioned in Section three hundred and forty,
shall stay proceedings in the Court below upon the judgment or order
appealed from, except that where it directs the sale of perishable property the Court below may order the property to be sold, and the pro, feds thereof to be deposited to abide the judgment of the Appellate

‘ourt.

SEC. 350. Appeals may be brought to a hearing by either party
upon a notice of three days to the opposite party. Before the argument each party shall furnish to the other and to each of the Justices a
copy of his points and authorities, or either party may file one copy
thereof with the Clerk, who shall cause the requisite copies to be made.

SEC. 351. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it shall be
certified by the Clerk of the Supreme Court to the Clerk with whom
the judgment roll is filed or the order appealed from is entered. In
cases'of' appeal from the judgment, the Clerk with whom the roll is
filed shall attach the certificate to the judgment roll and enter a minute of the judgment of the Sapreme Court on the docket against the
original entry. In cases of appeal from an order, the Clerk shall
enter at length in the records of the Court the certificate received, and
minute against the entry of the order appealed from a reference to the
certificate, with a brief statement that the order has been affirmed, reversedl or modified, as the case may be, by the Supreme Court, on
appea .

SEC. 352. Whenever-costs are awarded to a party by an Appellate
Court, such party may have an execution for the same on filing a remittitur with the Clerk of the Court below, and it shall be the duty of
such Clerk, whenever the remittitur is filed, to issue the execution upon
application therefore, and whenever costs are awarded to a- party by an
order of any Court, such party may have an execution therefore in like
manner as upon a judgment. '

TITLE X.

C7, {2  Miscellaneous Proceedings.

3 ' ’ CHAPTER 1.—PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS.

SEC. 353. When a judgment is recovered against one or more of
several persons jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding as
provided in Section thirty-two, those who were not originally served
with'the summons and did not appear to the action, may be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by the judgment in the same manner as though they had been originally served
with the summons.

SEC. 354. The summons, as provided in the last section, shall describe the judgment and require the person summoned to show cause
why he should not be bound by it, and shall be served in the same
manner and returnable within the same time as the original summons.
It shall not be necessary to file a new complaint.

SEC. 355. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of
the plaintifff, his agent, representative or attorney, that the judgment or
some part thereof remains unsatisfied, and shall specify the amount due
thereon.

SEC. 356. Upon such summons, the defendant may answer within
the time specified therein, denying the judgment or setting up any defense which may have arisen subsequently, or he may deny his liability
on the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, except a discharge from such liability by the statute of limitation.

SEC. 357. If the defendant, in his answer, deny the judgment, or
set up any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons,
with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall constitute the written
allegations in the case. If he deny his liability on the obligation upon
which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint
and judgment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer,
shall constitute such written allegations,

SEC. 358. The issues formed may be tried [as] in other cases, but
when the defendant denies, in his answer, any liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered, if‘a verdict be found
against him, 'it shall be for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such
original judgment, with interest thereon.

I

erAPTER 2.—CONFEss10N or JUDGMENT ernon'r ACTION.

SEC. 359. A judg cut by confession may be entered without aciit'lll. t-illtm‘ for mum-fugue Or to become due, or to secure any person
against muting-m liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the
manner ["JI'L‘rEL'I'llJL’Il by this chapter. '.

SEC. 360. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by the de- t
fendant and verified by his oath, to the following effect: First—It 1
shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum. Second—If
it be money due, or to become due, it shall state concisely the facts out
of which it .arose, and shall show that the sum confessed therefore is
justly due, or to become due. Third—If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contingent liability, it shall state concisely
the facts constituting the liability, and shall show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same.

SEC. 361. The statement shall be filed with the Clerk of the Court ‘
in which the judgment is to be entered, who shall indorse upon it, and
enter in the judgment book a judgment of such Court for the amount
confessed, with ten dollars costs. The judgment and affidavit, with the
judgment indorsed, shall thereupon become the judgment roll.

CHAPTER 3.—SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION.

SEC. 362. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the
subject of a civil action, may without action agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to any Court which should have jurisdiction if an
action has been brought. But it must appear, by affidavit, that the
controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the
rights of the parties. The Court shall thereupon hear and determine
the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were pending.

SEC. 363. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book as in
other cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to the trial.
The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment shall constitute
the judgment roll.

SEC. 364. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as
if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the same manner
subject to appeal.

CHAPTER 4.—0F ARBITRATIONS.

_ SEC. 365. Persons capable of contracting may submit to arbitration any. controversy which might be the subject of a civil action between them, except a. question of title to real property in fee or for life.
This qualification shall not include questions relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real property.

SEC. 366. The submission to arbitration shall be in writing, and
may be to one or more persons.

SEC. 367. It may be stipulated in the submission that it be entered
as an order of the Court, for which purpose it shall be filed with the
Clerk of the Court where the parties, or one of them, reside. The
Clerk shall thereupon enter in his register of actions a note of the submissmn, with the names of the parties, the names of the arbitrators,
the date of the submission, when filed, and the time limited by the 1submission, if any, within which the award 'shall be made. When so entered, the submission shall not be revoked without the consent of both
Parties. The arbitrators may be compelled by he Court to make an
award, and the award may be enforced by the ourt'in the same man'“el‘ 38 a judgment. If the submission be not made an order of the
Court, it may be revoked at any time before the award is made. '

SEC. 368. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time and

‘gilace fOr hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer oaths to

Witnesses, to hear the allegations and evidenceof the parties, and to
make an award thereon.

SEC. 369. All the arbitrators shall meet and act together during
the investigation, but when met, a majority may determine any question. Before acting they shall be sworn before an officer authorized to
administer oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of the parties in relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a just award according to their understanding.

SEC. 370. The award shall be in writing, signed by the arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When 'the
submission is made an order of the Court, the award shall be filed with
the Clerk and a note thereof made in his register. After the expiration of five days from the filing of the award, upon the application of a
party, and on filing an affidavit showing that notice of filing the
award has been served on the adverse party or his attorney at least four
days prior to such application, and that no order staying the entry of
judgment has been served, the award shall be entered by the Clerk in
the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the eli'ect of a judgment.

SEC. 371. The Court, on motion, may vacate the award upon
either of the following grounds, and may order a new hearing, before
the same arbitrators, or not, in its discretion: First—That it was procured by corruption or fraud. Second—That the arbitrators were guilty
of misconduct or committed gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to
postpone the hearing, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or
otherwise acted improperly, in a manner by which the rights of the
party were prejudiced. Third—That the arbitrators exceeded their
powers in making their award; or that they refused, or improperly
omitted to consider a part of the matters submitted to them; or that the
award is indefinite, or cannot be performed. ,

SEC. 372. The Court may, on motion, modify or correct the award
where it appears: First—That there was a miscalculation in figures
upon which it was made, or that there is a mistake in the description of
some person or property therein. Second—When a part of the award
is upon matters not submitted, which part can be separated from other
parts, and does not ali'ect the decision on. the matter submitted.
Third—When the award, though imperfect in form, could have been
amended if it had been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarded.

SEC. 373. The decision upon the motion shall be subject to appeal in the same manner as an.order which is subject to appeal in a
civil action; but the judgment entered before a motion is made shall
not be subject to appeal. 7 ~

SEC. 374. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and action be
brought therefore, the amount to be recovered shall only be the costs

’ and damages sustained in preparing for and attending the arbitration.

CHAPTER 5.—-0FFER on THE DEFENDANT T0 COMPROMISE THE
WHOLE OR A PART OF AN ACTION.

SEC. 375. The defendant may at any time before the trial or judg, ment serve upon the plaintifff an offer to allow judgment to be‘taken‘

against him for the sum, or property, or to the effect therein speeilied.
If the plaimilip accept the offer, and give notice thereof within five daft, '

he may file the summons, complaint, and offer, with an atiidavit of no- I
tics of acceptance, and the Clerk shall thereupon enter judgment accord- ,
ingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be
deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence; and if the
plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment he shall not recover
costs, but shall pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer.

TITLE x1.  ‘"

0f Witnesses, and qf the xllanner’qf Obtaining Evidence.  3

CHAPTER l.—OF WITNESSES.

SEC. 376. All persons, without exception, otherwise than as specified in this chapter, may be witnesses in any action or proceeding.
Facts which, by the common law, would cause the exclusion of witnesses may still be shown for the purpose of affecting their credibility.

SEC. 377. No person shall be disqualified as a witness in any action or proceeding on account of his opinions on matters of religious
belief, or by reason of his interest in the event of the action or proceeding as a party thereto or otherwise; but the party or parties thereto, and the person in whose behalf such action- or proceeding may be
brought or defended, shall, except as hereinafter excepted, be compe—
tent and be compellable to give evidence, either viva race or by deposition, or upon a commission, in the same manner and subject to the
same rules of examination as other witnesses, on behalf of himself, or
either or any of the parties to the action or proceeding.

SEC. 378. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or to
give his deposition before trial, or upon a commission when required.
his complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken out and judgment be
taken against him; and he may be also, in the discretion of the Court,
proceeded against as in other cases for a contempt.

SEC. 379. No person shall be allowed to testify under the provisions of Section Three Hundred and Seventy-seven, when 'the other
party to the‘transaction, or opposite party in the action, or the party
for whose immediate ‘ benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or
defended is the representative of a deceased person, when the facts to
be proved transpired before the death of such deceased person, and
nothing contained in ‘said section shall affect the laws in relation to
attestation of any instrument required to be attested.

SEC. 3.80Hersons against whom judgment has been rendered upon
a conviction ‘for felony, unless pardoned by the Governor, or such
judgment has been reversed on appeal, shall not be witnesses.

SEC. 381. A husband shall not be a' witness for or against his wife,
nor a wife a witness for or against her husband; nor can either, during
the marriage, Or afterwards, be, without the consent of the other, examined as to any communication made by one to the other during the
marriage. But this exception shall not apply to an action or proceeding by one against the other.

SEC. 382. An attorney or counselor shall not, without the consent
of his client, be examined as a witness as to any communication made
by the client to him, or his advice given thereon, in the course of professional employment.

SEC. 383. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the consent of
the person making the confession, be examined as a witness as to any
confession made to him in his professional character, in the course of
discipline enjoined by the church to which he belongs. SEC. 384. A licensed physician or surgeon shall not, without the
consent of his patient, be examined as a witness as to any information
acquired in attending the patient, which was necessary to enable him
to prescribe or act for the patient; provided, however, in any suit
or prosecution against a physician or surgeon for malpractice, if the
patient or party suing or prosecuting shall require or give such consent, and any such witness shall give testimony, then such physician or
surgeon, defendant, may call any other physicians or surgeons as witnesses on behalf of defendant, without the consent of such patient or
party suing or prosecuting.

SEC. 385.. A public officer shall not be examined as a witness as
to communications made to him in official confidence, when the public
interest would suffer by the disclosure.

SEC. 386. The Judge himself, or any juror, may be called as a
witness by either party, but in such case it shall be in the discretion of
the Court or Judge to order the trial to be postponed, or suspended,
and to take place before another Judge or jury.

SEC. 387. When a witness does not understand and speak the
English language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret for him.
Any person resident of the county maybe summoned by any Judge
or Court to appear before such Judge or Court to act as interpreter in
any action or proceeding. The summons shall be served and returned
in like manner as a subpoena. Any person so summoned shall, for a
failure to attend at the time and place named in the summons, be
deemed guilty of a contempt and punished accordingly.

CHAPTER 2.—-MANNER. 0F COMPELLING THE ATTENDANCE or
WITNESSES, AND THEIR RIGHTS AND DUTIES.

, SEC. 388. A subpoena may require not only the attendance of the
t person to whom it is directed, at aparticular time and place to testify
as a witness, but may also require him- to bring with him any books,
documents or other things under his control, to be used as evidence.
No person shall be required to attend as a witness before any Court,
Judge, Justice, referee or other officer out of the county in which he
resides, unless the distance be less than thirty miles from his place of
residence to the county of trial; provided, that such witness shall have
the right to demand payment in advance of his fees“ for one day’s
attendance, and his mileage to and from the place specified in the
subpoena. 
SEC. 389. I The subpoena shall be issued as follows: First—To require attendance before a Court, it shall be issued in the name and
under the seal of the Court before which the attendance is required.
- Second—To require attendance out of Court, before a Judge, referee,

Justina]. m- miter officer authorized to administer oaths or take testi1110th in any matter under the laws of this State, it shall bard, ued by
the Judge. l‘L‘ll‘ree, Justice, or other officer before whom the?~ dance
is natluiml. Third—To require attendance before a Commissioner

Elglpt'JlHlt-“l [0 take testimony by a Court of a foreign country, or of the
United Status. or of any other State, or of a Territory of the United

States, orrany District Judge or Justice of the Peace of this State, it
may be issued by a Judge or Justice of t the Peace in places within
their respective jurisdictions, with like power to enforce attendance and
to punish contempt of such subpoena as such Judge or Justice could
exercise if the subpoena directed the attendance of the witness before
his own Court, in a matter pending therein.

SEC. 390. The service of a subpoena shall be made by showing .
the Original, and delivering a copy or a ticket containing its substance
to the witness personally, giving or offering to him at the same time,
if demanded by him, the fees to which he is entitled for travel to and
from the place designated, and one day’s attendance there. Such service may be made by any person. ’ '

SEC. 391. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel so as
to prevent the service of a subpoena upon him, any Court or Judge, or
any officer issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof by atiidavit of the
concealment, and of the materiality of the witness, make an order that
the Sheriff of the county serve the subpmna, and the Sheriff shall
serve it accordingly, and for that purpose may break into the building
or vessel where the witness is concealed.

SEC. 392. A person present in Court, or before a judicial oilicer, ;
may be required to testify in the same manner as if he were in attend- g
ance upon a subpoena issued. by such Court or ofIicer.. '

SEC. 393. It shall be the duty of a witness, duly served with a j
subpoena, to attend at the time appointed. with any papers under his ‘
control required by the subpoena, to answer all pertinent and legal
questions, and, unless sooner discharged, to remain till the testimony
is closed.

SEC. 394. A witness shall answer questions legal and pertinent ,
to the matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim ‘
against himself; but he need not give an answer which will have a ‘
tendency to subject him to punishment for a felony; nor need give an
answer which will have a direct tendency to degrade his character,
unless it be to the very fact in issue, or to a fact from which the fact
at issue would be presumed. But. a witness shall answer as to the
fact to his previous conviction for felony.

SEC. 395. Disobedience to a- subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn
or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition
when required, may be punished as a contempt by the Court or officer
issuing the subpoena or requiring the witness to be sworn ; and if the
witness be a party his complaint may be dismissed or his answer
stricken out.

SEC. 396. A. witness disobeying a subpoena shall also forfeit to
the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars and all damages
which he may sustain by the failure of the witness to attend, which
forfeiture and damages may be recovered in a civil aetion. I

SEC. 397. In. case of failure of a witness to attend, the Court
701' officer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service thereof, and
of the failure of the witness, may issue a warrant to the Sheriff of j
the county to arrest the witness and bring him before the Court or
officer where his attendance was required. ‘

SEC, 398. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail or
prison within this State for any other cause than a sentence for felony,
an order for his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for his
temporary removal and production before a Court or oilicer for the
Purpose of being orally examined, may be made as follows: First—By the Court. itself in which the action or special proceeding is pending. Second—By a Judge of the Supreme Court or District Court
where the action or proceeding is pending, if before a Judge or other
person out of Court.

SEC. 399. Such order; can only be made upon affidavit, showing
the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected from
the witness and its materiality.

SEC. 400. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where the
action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than a sentence
for felony, his production may be required. In all other cases his
examination, when allowed, shall be taken upon deposition.

SEC. 401. Every person who has been in good faith served with
a subpoena to attend as a witness before a Court, Judge, Commissioner,
referee or other person, in a case where the disobedience of the wit.
ness may be punished as a contempt, shall be exonerated from arrest
in a civil action while going to the place of attendance, necessarily
remaining there and returning therefrom.

SEC. 402. The arrest of a witness contrary to the last section
shall be void; but an officer shall not be liable to the party for malt;ing the arrest in ignorance of the facts creating the exoneration, but
shall be liable for any subsequent detention of the party, if such party
claim the exemption and make an affidavit, stating: First-—That he
has been served with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a Court,
oilicer or other person, specifying the same, the place of attendance,
and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena was issued; and,
Second—That he has not been thus served by his own procurement,
with the intention of avoiding an arrest. ’

CHAPTER 3.—-ON AFFIDAVITS.

SEC. 403. An affidavit to be used before any Court, Judge ‘or
oilicer of this State may be taken before any Judge or Clerk of any
Court, or any Justice of the Peace or Notary Public in this State.

SEC. 404. An affidavit taken in another State, or in a Territory
of the United States, to be used in this State, shall be taken before a
Commissioner appointed by the Governor of this State to take aiiidavits and depositions in such other State or Territory, or before any
Judge of a Court of Record having a seal.

SEC. 405. An at’tidavit taken in a foreign country to be used in
this State, shall be taken before an Embassador, Minister, or Consul
of the United States, or before any Judge of a Court of Record having a seal, in such foreign country. .

SEQ. 406. When an affidavit is taken before a Judé of a Court
in another State, or in a Territory of the United States,f or in a foreign country, the genuineness of the signature of the Judge, the existence of the Court, and the fact that suchca J udgc is a member thereof,
shall be certified by the Clerk of the Court, under the seal thereof.

CHAPTER 4.—Or DEPOSI'rleNs TAKEN IN THIS STATE.

SEC. 407. The testimony of a witness in this State may be taken
by deposition in an action at any time after the service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant, and in a special proceeding,

after a question of fact has arisen therein, in the following cases:
First-When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or a
person for whose immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prose' cuted or defended. Second—When the witness resides out of the
county in which his testimony is to be used. Third—When the witness is about to leave the county where the action is to be tried,
and will probably continue absent when the testimony is required.
Fourth—When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is
nevertheless too infirm to attend, or resides within the county, but more
than fifty miles from the‘ place of trial.

SEC. 408. Either party may have the deposition of a witness in
this State taken before any Judge or Clerk of a Court; or any Justice
of the Peace or Notary Public in this State, on serving upon the
adverse party previous notice of the time and place of examination,
together with a copy of an affidavit showing. that the case is one mentioned in the last section. At any time during the forty days immediately after the service of summons by publication has been completed,
and at any time thereafter, when the defendant has not appeared, and
his residence is unknown to the plaintifff, the notice required by this
section may be Served upon the Clerk of the Court where the action is
pending. Such notice shall be at least five days, and, in addition, one
day for every twenty-five miles of the distance of the place of examination from the residence of the person upon whom the notice is served,
unless, for a cause shown, a Judge by order prescribe a shorter time.
When a shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order shall be served
with the notice. '.

SEC, 409. Either party may attend such examination and put such
questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, when
completed, shall be carefully read to the witness and corrected by him
in any particular, if desired; it shall then be subscribed by the witness,
certified by the Judge or oiiicer taking the deposition, inclosed in an
enveIOpe Or wrapper, sealed and directed to the Clerk of the Court in
Which the action is pending, or to such person as the parties in writing
may agree upon, and either delivered by the Judge or officer to the
Clerk or such person, or transmitted through the mail or by some safe
private Opportunity; and thereupon such deposition may be used iv
either party upon the trial or other prOceeding against any party giving
or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions. But  the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the time
Of the examination. If the deposition be taken by reason of the
absence or intended absence from the county of the witness, or beCause
he is too infirm to attend, proof by,a&ida‘vit or oral testimony shall be
made at the trial that the witness continues absent or infirm, to the
best of the deponent’s knowledge or belief. The deposition thus taken
may be also read in case of the death of the witness.

_ SEC. 410. When'a deposition has been once taken, it may be read
m any stage of the same action or proceeding by either party, and shall
then be deemed the evidence of the party reading it.

CHAPTER 5.—,OF DEPOSITIONS TAKEN our or THIS STATE.

SEC. 411. The testimony of a witness out of the State may be
taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service of the

summons or the'appearance of the defendant, and in a special proceeding, at any time after a question of fact has arisen therein.

SEC. 412. The deposition of a witness out of this State shall be
taken upon commission issued from the Court, under the seal of the
Court, upon an order of the Judge or Court, on the application of
either party, upon five days’ previous notice to the other. It shall be

1&sued to a person agreed upon by the parties, or if they do not agree,
to any Judge or Justice of the Peace selected by the officer granting
the-commission, or to a Commissioner appointed by the Governor of
this State to take affidavits and depositions in other States or Terri—
tories. SEC. 413. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as the
reSpective parties may prepare, to be settled, if the parties disagree as
to their form, by the Judge or officer granting the order for the commission, at a day fixed in the order, or at the time of granting the
order for commission, may be annexed to the commission, or when the
parties agree to that mode, the examination may be without written
interrogatories. '

SEC. 414. The commission shall authorize the Commissioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in answer to
the interrogatories, or when the examination is to be without interrogyatories in respect to the question in dispute, and to certify the deposition

to the Court, in a sealed envelope directed to the Clerk or other person

3designed or agreed upon, and forwarded 'to him by mail or other usual

channel of conveyance.

SEC. 415. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by
reason of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory
to the Court that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that
proper diligence has been used to obtain it.

CHAPTER 6.——OF PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

SEC. 416. The testimony of a witness may be taken and perpetuated as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 417. The applicant shall present to a District Judge a petition
verified by the oath of the applicant, stating: First—That the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a Court in this State, and in
such case the name or names of the person or persons whom he expects
will be adverse parties; or, Second—That the proof of some fact or
facts is necessary to perfect the title to preperty in which he is interested, or to establish marriage, descent, heirship, or any other matter
which it may hereafter become material to establish, though no suit
may at the time be anticipated, or if anticipated, he may not know the
parties to such suit; and, Third—The name of the witness to be
examined and his place of residence, and a general outline of the facts
expected to be proved. .

SEC. 418. The Judge to whom such petition is presented shall
make an order allowing the examination before any Judge of a Court
of Record and prescribing the notice to be given, which notice, if the
parties are known and reside in this State, shall be personally served
on them, and if unknown or non-residents, such notice shall be served
0n the Clerk of the county where the property to be affected by such
testimony is situated, and a copy thereof published in some newspaper,
to be~desigpatedgby the Judge making the order.

SEC. 419. Upon proof of the service of the notice as provided in
the last section, it shall be the duty of the Judge before whom the testimony is ordered to be taken to proceed to take the testimony of the
witnesses named in said petition, upon the facts therein set forth, and
the taking of the same may be continued from time to time, in the
discretion of the Judge.

SEC. 420. The examination shall be by question and answer,
unless the parties otherwise agree. The testimony, when completed,
shall be carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, then certified
by the Judge, and immediately thereafter filed in the office of the Clerk
of the District Court of the county where it was taken, together with
the order for the examination of the witness, the petition on which the
same was granted, and the proof of service of the notice.

SEC. 421. The affidavits or other proof filed with the testimony, or
certified copies thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated
therein.

SEC. 422. If the trial he had between the persons named in the
petition as parties expectant, or their successors in interest, or between
any parties wherein it may be material to establish the facts which
such testimony proves or tends to prove, upon proof of the death or
insanity of the witness, or of his inability to attend the trial by reason
of age, sickness or settled infirmity, the testimony, or certified copies
thereof, may be used by either party, subject to all legal objections.
But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form‘
of an interrogatory shall be. made at the trial, unless the same was

stated at the examination.

CHAPTER 7. — ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND
AFFIRMATIONS.

SEC. 423. Every Court of this State, every Judge or Clerk Of any A
Court, every Justice of the Peace, and every Notary Public, and every 1
officer authorized to take testimony, or to decide upon the evidence in ‘
any proceeding, shall have power to administer oaths or affirmations.

SEC. 424. When a person is sworn who believes in any other than 3
the Christian religion, he may be . sworn according to the peculiar ‘
ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

SEC. 425. Any witness who desires it may, at his option, instead of .
taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation, or declaration, by assent- 1
ing when addressed in the following from: “You do solemnly affirm
that the evidence you shall give in this issue, (or matter) pending
between , and , shall be the truth, thewhole truth,
and nothing but the truth.” Assent to this affirmation shall be made
by the ansWer “ I do.” A false affirmation or declaration shall be

deemed perjury equally with a false oath. ' .

CHAPTER 8.—INSPECTION or DOCUMENTS AND MISCELLANEOUS
PROVISIONS AS To RECORDS AND WRITINGS.

SEC. 426. Any Court in which an action is pending, or a Judge 1
thereof may, upon notice, order either party to give to other within a :
'Bpecified time an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of (
any book, document, or paper in his possession, or under his control,

containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense
therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the Court may ex»
clude the book, document, or paper from being given in evidence, or if
wanted as evidence by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges it to be; and the Court may also punish the party refusing for a contempt. This section shall not be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produced books,
papers, or documents when he is examined as a witness.

SEC. 427. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing,
other than the writing itself, except in the following cases: First-—
When the original has been lost or destroyed; in which case proof of
the lost or destruction shall first be made. Second—When the original is in the possession of the party against whom the evidence is
offered, and he fails to produce it after reasonable notice. Third——
When the original is a record or other document in the custody of a
public officer, or officer of a corporation. Fourth—When the original
has been recorded and a certified copy of the record is ’made evidence
by statute. Fifth—When the original consists of numerous accounts
or other documents which cannot be examined in Court without great
loss of time, and the evidence sought from them is only the general
result. of the whole.

SEC. 428. The party producing a writing as genuine, which has
been altered, or appears to have been altered after its execution, in a
' part material to the question in dispute, and such alteration is not noted
on the writing, shall account for the appearance or alteration. He may
show that the alteration was made by another without his concurrence,
or was made with the consent of the parties afi‘ected by it, or otherwise
properly or innocently made. If he do that, he may give the writing
in evidence, but not otherwise. .

SEC. 429. A. judicial record of this State, or the United States, or
of any Territory, may be proved by the production of the original, or
a copy thereof certified by the Clerk, or other person having the legal
custody thereof, under the seal of the Court, to be a true copy of such
record.

See. 430. The records and judicial proceedings of the Courts of
any other State of the United States, or of any Territory, may be
proved or admitted in the Courts of this State, by the attestation of the
Clerk and the seal of the Court annexed, if there be a seal, together
with a certificate of the Judge, Chief Justice or presiding Magistrate,
as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due form.

SEC. 431. A judicial record of a foreign country may be proved
by the production of a copy thereof, certified by the Clerk, with the
‘_ seal of the Court annexed, if there be a Clerk and seal, or by the legal
keeper of the record, with the seal of his office annexed, if there be a
seal, to be a true capy of such record, together with a certificate of 'a
Judge of the Court, that the person making the certificate is the Clerk
of the Court, or the legal keeper of the record, and in either case that
the signature is genuine, and the certificate in due form; and also
together with the certificate. of the Minister or Embassador of the
United States, or of a Consul of the United States, in such foreign
country, that there is such a Court, specifying generally the nature of
its jurisdiction, and verifying the signature of the Judge and Clerk, or
other legal keeper of the record.

SEC. 432. A. copy of the judicial record of a foreign country shall
, also be admissible in evidence upon proof: First—That the copy

offered has been compared by the witness with the original, and is an
exact transcript of the whole of it. Second—That such original was
in the custody of the Clerk of the Court or other legal keeper of
the same; and, Third—That the capy is duly attested by a seal,
which is proved to be the seal of the Court where the record remains, if it be the record of a .Court, or if there be no such seal,
or if it be not a record of a Court, by the signature of the legal
keeper of the original.

SEC. 433. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code or other
written law, enacted by any other State, or Territory, or foreign
government, purporting or proved to have been published by the
authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence
of the existing law, in the Courts and judicial tribunals of such
State, Territory, or Government, shall be admitted by the Courts and
Oilicers of this State on all occasions as presumptive evidence of
such laws.

SEC. 434. A seal of a Court or public office when required to
any writ or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a copy of any
record or document, may be impressed with wax, wafer, or any other
substance, and then attached to the writ, process, or proceeding, or
to the copy of the record or document, or it may be impressed on
the paper alone.

TITLE XII.

0f the Writ of Certiorarz' and of Mandamus.
CHAPTER l.—THE Win or CERTIORARI OR REVIEW.

. .2

SEC. 435. The' writ of certiorari may be denominated the writ of

' .eview. 4
SEC. 436. This writ may be granted on application by any Court,

of this State, except a Justice’s, or Recorder’s, or Mayor’s Court ;
the writ shall be granted in all casesNhen an inferior tribunal,
board, or officer, exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or oliicer, and there is no appeal, nor in:
the judgment of the Court, any plain, speedy, and adequate remedy. <

SEC. 437. The application shall be made on affidavit by the party'
beneficially interested, and the Court may require a notice of the application to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to
show cause why it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ with;

' out notice. A 4 '“
, SEC. 438. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board,
or officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record or

proceedings to be certified. When' directed to a tribunal, the Clerk, if
there be one, shall return the writ with the transcript required.

SEC. 439. The writ of review shall command the party to whom
it is directed to certify fully to the Court issuing the writ, at a specified
time and place, and annex to the writ a transcript of the record and
proceeding, (describing or referring to them with convenient certainty)
that the same may be reviewed by the Court, and requiring the party
in the mean time to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be
reviewed.

SEC. 440. If a stay of proceedings be not intended the words
requiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ. These words may

be inserted or omitted, in the sound discretion of the Court, but if
omitted, the power of the inferior Court or officer shall not be suspended
nor the proceedings stayed.

SEC. 441. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a
summons in civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by
the Court. .

SEC. 442. The review upon this writ shall not be extended further
than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board, or officer has
regularly pursued the authority of such tribunal, board, or officer.

SEC. 443. If the return to the writ be defective, the Court may
order a further return to be made. When a full return has been
made, the Court shall proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as
may attend for that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either
adirming or annulling or modifying the proceedings below.

SEC. 444. A. copy of the judgment, signed by the Clerk, shall be
transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer having the custody
of the record or proceeding certified up.

SEC. 445. A copy of the judgment, signed by the Clerk, entered

' upon or attached to the writ and return shall constitute the judgment
roll. If the proceeding be had in any other than the Supreme Court,
an appeal may be taken from the judgment in the same manner and
upon the same terms as from a judgment in a civil action.

CHAPTER 2.——THE WRIT OF MANDATE on MANDAMUS.

SEC. 446. The writ of mandamus may be denominated the writ of
.mandate. ’93,

SEC. 447. It may be issued by any Court in this State, except a
Justice’s, to any inferior tribunal, corporatiMoard or person, to compel the performance of an act which the law specially enjoins as a duty
resulting from an office, trust or station ; or to compel the admission of
a party to the use and enjoyment of a right or office to which he is entitled and from which he is unlawfully precludedby such inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person. '

SEC. 448. This writ shall be issued in all cases where there is not
.a plain, speedy and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law. It

- shall be issued upon affidavitron the application of the party beneficially
interested. A '

SEC. 449. The writ shall be either alternative or peremptory. The
alternative writ shall state generally the allegation against the party to
whom it is directed, and command such party, immediately after the
receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the act required to be performed, or to show cause before the Court, at a specified time and place, why he has not done so. The peremptory writ
shall be in a similar form, except that the words requiring the party to
show cause why he has not done ascommanded shall be omitted, and a
return day shall be inserted.

SEC. 450. When the application to the Court is made without notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative shall
be first issued; but if the application be upon due notice, and the writ
be allowed, the peremptory may be issued in the first instance. The
notice of the application, when given, shall be at least ten days. The
writ shall: not be granted by default. The case shall be heard by the
Court, whether the adverse party appear or not. a .

SEC. 451. On the return day of the alternative, or the day on which
the application of the writ is noticed, or such further day as the Court
may allow, the party on whom the writ or notice shall have been served
may show cause by answer under oath, made in the same manner as
an answer to a complaint in a civil action. ,

SEC. 452. If an answer be made, which raises a question as to a
matter of fact essential to the determination of the motion, and affecting
the substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed truth of the
allegation of which the application for the writ is based, the Court may,
in its discretion, order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone the argument until such trial can be had, and the verdict certified
to the Court. The question to be tried shall be distinctly stated in the
order for trial, and the county shall be designated in which the same
shall be had. The order may also direct the jury to assess any damages which the applicant may have sustained in case they tind for him.

SEC. 453. On the trial the applicant shall not be precluded by the
answer of any valid objection to its sufficiency, and may countervail it
by proof either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

SEC. 454. If either party be dissatisfied with the verdict of the jury
he may move for a new trial upon a statement prepared as provided in
Section One Hundred and Ninety-seven. The motion for a new trial
may, upon reasonable notice, be brought on before the Judge of the
Court in which the cause was tried, either in term or vacation. If a
new trial be granted, the jury shall, within five days thereafter, unless
the parties agree‘ on a longer time, be summoned to try the issue. Afger a second verdict in favor of the same party, a new trial shall not

e had. ' '

SEC. 455. If no notice for a new trial be given, or if given be denied, the Clerk, within five days after the rendition of the verdict, or
denial of the motion, shall transmit to the Court in which the application for the writ is pending, a certified copy of the verdict, attached to
the order of trial ; after which either party may g on the argument
of the application, upon reasonable notice to the se party.

SEC. 456. If no answer be made the case s be heard on the
papers of the applicant. .If an answer be made does not raise a
question such as is mentioned in Section four hu d and fifty-two,
but only such‘matters as may be explained or avoi by a reply, the
Court may, in its discretion, grant time for replyin If the answer,
or answer and reply, raise only questions of law, or pu n issue immaterial statements, not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the
(spurt shall proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing the argument of
t e case.

SEC. 457. If judgment be given for the applicant he shall recover ‘
the damages which he shall have sustained as found by the jury, or as
may be determined by the Court or referees, upon a reference to be
ordered, together with costs ; and for such damages and costs an execution may issue, and peremptory mandate shall also be awarded without delay.

SEC. 458. The writ shall be served in'the same manner as a sum- '
none in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by ‘
order of ‘ the Court.

SEC. 459. 'When a peremptory mandate has been issued and di- ?
rected to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, if it appear to the Court that any member of such tribunal, corporation or ‘
board, or such person, upon whom the writ has been personally served,

   
  
   
   
   
   

has without just excuse, refused or neglectedto pay the same, the Court
may, upon motion, impose a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars.
In case of persistence in a refusal of obedience, the Courtmay order
the party to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding three months, and
may take [make] any orders necessary and proper for the complete enforcement of the writ. If a fine be imposed upon a Judge or officer who
draws a salary from the State or county, a certified copy of the order
shall i be forwarded to the Controller or County Treasurer, as the case
may be, and the amount thereof may be retained from the salaryof
such Judge or oiiicer. Such Judge or of‘ricer, for his willful disobedience, shall also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in oiiice. .

TITLE XIII.

0f Contempts and their Punishments.

SEC. 460. The following acts or omissions shall be deemed contempts : First—Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior towards the Judge whilst holding Court or engaged in his judicial duties
at chambers, or towards referees or arbitrators whilst sitting on a reference or arbitration or other judicial proceeding. Second—A breach
of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent disturbance in the presence
of the Court or in its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt the due
course of a trial or other judicial proceeding. Third—(Disobedience or
resistance to any lawful writ, order, rule or process issued by the Court or
Judge at chambers. Fourth—Disobedience of a subpoena duly served,
or refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness. Fifth—Rescuing any
person or property in the custody of an oilicer by virtue of an order of
process of such Court or Judge at chambers. Sixth—Disobedience to
the order or direction of the Court made pending the trial of an action,
in speaking to or in the presence of a juror, concerning an action in
which such juror has been impanneled to determine, or in any manner
approaching or interfering with such juror with; the intent to influence
his verdict. '

SEC. 461. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view
and presence of the Court or Judge at chambers it may be punished
summarily, for which an order shall be made reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby uilty of a contempt, and that he be
punished as therein prescribed. %Vhen the contempt is not committed
in the immediate view and presence of the COurt or Judge at chambers,
an affidavit shall be presented to the Court or Judge of the facts coustituting the contempt or a statement of the facts by the referees or
arbitrators.

SEC. 462. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate
view and presence of the Court or Judge a warrant of attachment may
be issued to bring the person charged to answer, or without a previous
arrest a warrant of commitment may upon notice, or upon an order to
show cause, be granted; and no warrant of commitment shall be
issued without such previous attachment to answer, or such notice or
order, to show cause.

SEC. 463. ,Whenever a warrant of attachment is isSued pursuant
to this chapter, the Court or Judge shall direct, by an endorsement‘on

such warrant, that the person charged may be let to bail for his appearance, in an amount to be specified in such endorsement.

SEC. 464. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the Sheriff
shall keep the person in custody, bring him before the Court or Judge,
and detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next
section.

SEC. 465. When a direction to let the person arrested to bail is
contained in the warrant of attachment, or endorsed thereon, he shall
be discharged from the arrest, upon executing and delivering to the
oiiicer, at any time before the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two sutiicient sureties to the effect that the person arrested will appear on the return of the warrant, and abide the order of
the Court or Judge thereupon; or they will pay as may be directed,
the sum specified in the warrant.

SEC. 466. The odicer shall return the warrant of arrest and the
undertaking, if any, received by him from the person arrested, by the
return day specified therein.

SEC. 467. When the person arrested has been brought up or
appeared, the Court or Judge shall proceed to investigate the charge,
and shall bear any answer which the person arrested may make to the
same, and may examine witnesses for or against him, for which an
adjournment may be had from time to time, if necessary.

SEC. 468. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the Court or
Judge shall determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty
of the contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the
contempt, a fine may be imposed on him not exceeding five hundred
dollars, or he may be imprisoned not exceeding five days, or both.

SEC. I 469. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform

an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be
imprisoned until he have performed it, and in that case the act shall be
specified in the warrant of commitment.
. SEC. 470. Persons proceeded against according to the provisions
of this chapter shall also be liable to indictment for the same misconduct,
if it be an indictable offense, but the Court before which a conviction is
bad on the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into consideration
the punishment before inflicted. _

SEC. 471. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served,
if the person arrested do not appear on the return day, the Court or.
Judge may issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the
measure of damages in the action shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party by reason of the misconduct for
which the warrant was issued, and the costs of the pr’bceeding.

SEC. 472. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an officer
is required to keep a person arrested on a warrant of attachment in
custody, and to bring him before a Court or Judge, the inability, from
illness or otherwise, of the person to attend, shall be a sudicient excuse
fur not bringing him up; and the oiiicer shall not confine a person
arrested upon the warrant in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of
personal liberty, except so far as may be necessary to secure his personal attendance. '

SEC. 473. In cases of contempt, the punishment shall be by fine
and imprisonment, but no tine shall exceed the sum of five hundred
dollars, and no imprisonment shall exceed the perSd of five days, except as provided in section four hundred and sixtygnine.

TITLE XIV.
0f Costs,

SEC. 474. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors shall be left to the agreement, express or implied, of the
parties, but there sh'all be allowed to the prevailing party in any action '
in the Supreme and District Courts, his costs and necessary disbursements, in the action or special proceeding in the nature of an action.

SEC. 475. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff, upon a
judgment in his favor in the following cases: First—In an action for
the recovery of real property. Second—In an action to recover the
possession of personal property, when the value of the property amounts
to three hundred dollars or over, such value shall be determined by the
jury, Court, or referee by whom the action is tried. Third—In an
action for the recovery of money or damages, where plaintifff recovers
three hundred dollars or over. Fourth—In a special proceeding in the

nature of an action.

SEC. 476. When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writing,
or in any other case for the same cause of action, against several parties
who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs
shall be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which
may be at his election, if the party proceeded against in the other
actions were at the commencement of the previous action openly within
this State; but the disbursements of the plaintiff shall be allowed to him
in each action.

SEC. 477': Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant upon
a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in section four
hundred and seventy-five, and in a special proceeding in the nature
of an action.

SEC. 478. In other actions than those mentioned in section four
hundred and seventy-five, costs may be allowed or not, and if allowed,
may be apportioned between the parties, on the same or adverse sides,’

'in the discretion of the Court; but no costs shall be allowed in an action
for the. recovery of money or damages when the plaintifff recovers less
than three hundred dollars, nor in an action to recover the possession
of personal property, when the value of the property is less than thr
hundred dollars. , ‘

SEC. 479. When there are several defendants in the actions mentioned in section four hundred and seventy-live not united in interest, and
making separate defenses by separate answers, and the plaintifff fails to
recover judgment against all, the ‘Court shall award costs to such of the
defendants as have judgment in their favor.

SEC. 480. In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall he in
the discretion of the Court: First—When .a new trial is ordered.
Second—Whenh judgment is modified. ‘

SEC. 481. The fees of referees shall be fifteen dollars to each, for
every day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties may
agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon
such rate shall be allowed. ,_ ‘ o . ° 5

* SEC. 482. When an applicati'bn is made to a Court or referee to
postpone a trial, theQayment of costs occasionbd by the postpoth

may be imposed, in the discretion of the Court or referee, as a condition of granting the same.

SEC. 483. When in an- action for the recovery of money only, the
defendant alleges in his answer that before the commencement of the
action,'he tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he was
entitled, and thereupon deposits in Court, for the plaintifff, the amount.
so tendered, and the allegation be found to be true, the plaintifff shall
not recover costs, but shall pay costs to the defendant.

SEC. 484. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor,
administrator, trustee of express trust, or a person expressly authorized
by statute, costs may be recovered as in an action by and against a
person prosecuting and defending in his own right; but such costs shall,
by the judgment, be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or
party represented, unless the Court shall direct the same to be paid by
the plaintifff or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith
in the action or defen e. ' '
. SEC. 485. When e decision of a Court of inferior jurisdiction in
aspecial proceeding is rought before a Court of higher jurisdiction for
a review in any other way than by appeal, the same costs shall be
allowed as in cases on appeal, and may be collected by execution, or

. in such manner as the Court may direct, according to the nature of the
case.
SEC. 486. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and
who claims his costs, shall deliver to the Clerk of the Court, within two
zjays after the verdict or decision of the Court, a memorandum of the
tems of his costs and necessary disbursements in the action or proceed-‘
Ling, which memorandum shall be verified by the oath of the party or
his attorney, stating that the items are correct, and that the disbursements have been necessarily incurred in the action or proceeding.

SEC. 487. The Clerk shall include in the judgment entered up by
him 'any interest in the verdict or decision of the Court or referee, from
the time it was rendered or made, and the costs, if the same have been
taxed or ascertained, and he shall, within two days after the same shall
be taxed or ascertained, if not included in the judgment, insert the
same in a blank to be left in the judgment for that purpose, and shall
make a similar insertion of the costs in the cepies and docket of the
judgment.

SEC. 488. ' When a plaintifff in an ac ion‘ides out of the State or
is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges which may
be awarded against such plaintifff: may be required by the defendant.
When required, all proceedings iri‘the action shall he stayed until an
undertaking, executed by two or more‘ persons, be filed with the Clerk,
to the effect that they will pay such costs and charges as may be
awarded against the plaintifff by judgment, or in the progress of the
action, not exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars. A new or an
additional undertaking may be ordered by the Court or Judge upon
proof that the original undertaking is insufficient security, and proceedings in the action stayed until such new or additional undertaking be
executed and filed.

SEC. 489. Each of the sureties on the undertaking mentioned in
the last sectiop shall annex to the same' an affidavit that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within" the county, and is worth
double the amou't specified in the undertaking, over and above all his
just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution.

SEC. 490. After the lapse of thirty days from Ge service of notice

that security is required, or of an order for new or additional security,
upon proof thereof, and that no undertaking as required has been died,
the Court or Judge may order the action to be dismissed. '

, .

TITLE XV.

0f llfotions, Orders, Notices, Service of Papers, and Mscellaneous

’ Provisions.

SEC. 491. Every direction of a Court or Judge made or entered
',in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.
An application for an order is a motion.

SEC. 492. Motions shall be made in the county in which the action
is brought, or in an adjoining countyin the same district.

SEC. 493. When a written notice of a motion is necessary, it shall
be given, if the Court be held in the same district where both parties
reside, five days before the time appointed for‘the hearing; otherwise
ten days, but the Court or Judge may prescribe a shorter time.

SEC. 494. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order to
show cause is made returnable before a Judge out of Court, and at the
time fixed for the motion, or on the return day of the order, the Judge
is unable to hear the parties, the matter may be transferred by his order to some other Judge, before whom it might originally have been
brought. } . ’ '

SEC. 495. Written notices and other papers, when required to be.
;served on the party or an attorney, shall be served in the manner prescribed in the next three sections, when not otherwise provided ; but
nothing in this title shall be applicable to original or final process, or
any proceedings to bring a party into contempt.

SEC. 496. The service may be personal, by delivery to the party
or his attorney, on whom the service is required to be made, or it may
be as follows: First—If upon an attorney, it may be 'made during
his absence from his office, by leaving the notice or other‘papers with
his clerk therein, or with a person having charge thereof; or when
there is no person in the office, by leaving them, betWeen the hours of
eight in the morning and ix 4! the afternoon, in a conspicuous place
in the office; or if it b ‘ ot Open, so as to admit of such service, then
by leaving them at the attorney’s residence, withsome person of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be not known, then by
putting the same inclosed in an envelope, into the pdst-office directed
to such attorney. Second—If upon a party, it may be made by lea}ing the notice or other paper at his residence, between the hours 
eight in the morning and six in the evening, with some person of shitable age and discretion, and if his residence be not known, by putting
the same inclosed in an envelope, into the post-odice directed to shell
party. ‘

SEC. 497. Service by mail may be made, when the person making
the service, and the person on whom it is to be made, reside at dilfer‘ent places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.

SEC. 498. In case of service by mail, the notice or other paper
shall be deposited in the post-oHice, addressed to the person on whom
it is to be served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid..; , And
fittiisgch case the tinge of service shall be increased one 

twenty-five miles distance between the place of deposit and place of
address.

SEC. 499. A defendant shall be deemed to ,appear in an action
when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff written notice of his
’ appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of appearance for him.
After appearance, a defendant or his attorney. shall be entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings of which notice is required to be
given. But where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or
papers need not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want ofe
bail. SEC. 500. When a plaintifff or a defendant who has appeared res‘ide's out of the State, and has no attorney in the action or proceeding,
the service may be made on the Clerk for him. But in all cases where‘
a party has an attorney in the action or proceeding, the service of papers, when required, shall be upon the attorney instead of the party,
except of subpoenas, of writs, and other process issued in the suit, and
of papers to bring him into contempt.

I SEC. 501. ' Successive actions may be maintained upon the same
contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause
of action arises therefrom.

SEC. 502. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time
between the same parties, and in the same Court, upon causes of action which might have been joined, the Court may order the actions to
be consolidated into one. '

SEC. 503. An action may be brought by one person against
another, for the purpose of determining an adverse claim which the
latter makes against the former, for money or property, upon an alleged
obligation; and also against two or more persons, for the purpose of
compelling one to satisfy a debt due the other, for which the plaintifff is
bound as security. '

SEC. 504. The Clerk shall keep among the records of the Court a
register of actions. He shall enter therein the title of the action, with
brief notes under it, from time to time, of all papers filed, and proceedings had therein.

SIG. 505. When there are three referees, or three arbitrators, all
Slllld meet, but two of them may do any act which might be done by
a . '

SEC. 506. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided
in this Act, shall be computed by excluding the first day, and including
the  If the. last day be Sunday it shall be excluded.

SEC. 507. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title of

the’nction‘ or proceeding in which it is made or with a defective title,
91ml}? Was valid and effectual for any purpose as if duly entitled, if it
mtelli‘gibl‘y' refer to Such action or proceeding.
. SEC. 508. When a cause of action has arisen in another State or
In a' foreign country, and by the laws thereof an action thereon cannot
there bemaintained against a person by reasOn of the lapse of time,
an action thereon shall not be maintained against him in this State, except  favor of a citizen thereof who has held the cause of action
from the time it accrued.

t“ ’ 3 " 5‘ N" ".;~?"79"
‘ F t C t

,    ‘ TI‘I’LE XVI.
., if v.
,I .
0f Proceedings in Civil Cases, in Justices’ Courts.

'CHAPTER 1.—OF [T'HE] PARTIES AND THE TIME AND PLACE 0F
5‘9 COMMENCING ACTIONS IN JusTICEs’ COURTS.

" ’SEC. 509. The provisions of Title One of this Act, as to parties
to actions, shall be applicable to actions of which a Justice’s Court has
jurisdiction. Justices’ Courts shall have jurisdiction of the following
actions and proceedings: First—Of an action arising on contract for
the recovery of money only, if the sum claimed, exclusive of interest,
does not. exceed three hundred dollars. Second—Of an action for
damages for'injury to the person, or for taking or detaining personal
property, or for injuring real or personal property, if the damages
claimed do not exceed three hundred dollars. Third—Of an action
for a fine, penalty or forfeiture, not exceeding three hundred dollars, given by statute or the ordinance Of any incorporated or unincorporated city, town or village. Fourth—Of an action upon a bond
conditioned for the payment Of money not exceeding three hundred
dollars, though the penalty exceed that sum, the judgment to be given
for the sum actually due. When the phyments are to be made by installments, an action may be brought for each installment as it becomes
due. Fifth—Of an action upon a surety bond or, undertaking, though
the penalty exceed, if the amount claimed does not exceed three hun-~
dred dollars. Sixth—Of an action to recover the possession of personal property when the value of such property does not exceed three
hundred dollars. Seventh—TO take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant when the amount confessed does not exceed
three hundred dollars. Eighth—Of actions for the possession of lands
and tenements where the relation Of landlord and tenant exists:
Ninth—Of actions when the possession of lands or tenements has
been unlawfully or fraudulently obtained’ or withheld, in which case
the proceedings shall be as prescribed by the Actssupon. that subject.
Tenth—Of proceedings respecting vagrants and disorderly persons.
Eleventh—Of suits for the collection of taxes, where the amount of
the tax sued for does not exceed three hundred dollars. The jurisdiction conferred by this section shall not extend to a civil action in which
the title to real estate or mining claims orquestions to boundaries Of
lands- are involved, or to actions to enforce mechanic’s liens, and if
questions Of title to real property be involved, cases involving such
questions shall, be disposed of as hereafter provided in this Act. The
Courts held by Justices of the Peace shall be denominated Justices’
Courts. They shall have no terms, but shall always be Open. Justices’
Courts shall be held in their respective townships, precincts or cities.

SEC. 510. Parties vin Justices’ Courts may prosecute or defend in
person or by attorney; and any person, on the request of a party‘nay
act as his attorney, except that the Constable by whom the summons
or jury process was served shall not appear or act on the trial in behalf of either party. '

SEC. 511. No person shall be held to answer to any summons issued against him from a Justices’ Court in a civil action in any township, precinct Or city other than the one in which he shall reside, except in the cases following: First—When there shall be no Justices’
Court for the township, precinct or city in which the defendant may
reside, or no Justice competent to act on the case. Second—When
two or more persons shall be jointly or jointly and severally bound in
any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the same action and
reside in different townships, precincts or different cities of the same
county, or in different counties, the plaintifff may prosecute his action
in a' Justice’s Court of the township, precinct or city in which a, of
the debtors or other persons liable may reside. Third—In cases of
injury to the person, or to real or perspnal property, the plaintifff may
prosecute his action in the township, precinct or city where the injury
was committed. Fourth—When personal property unjustly taken or
detained is claimed, or damages therefore are claimed, the plaintifff may
bring his action in any township, precinct or city in which the property,
may be found, or in which the property was taken. Fifthq—fWhen the
defendant is a nan-resident of the county, he may be sued-in'any township, precinct or city wherein he may be found. Sixth—When a person has contracted to perform any obligation at aparticular place, and
resides in another township, precinct or city, he may be sued in the
township, precinct or city in which such obligation is to be performed,
or in which he resides. Seventh—When the foreclosure of a mortgage or the enforcement of a lien upon real or personal property is
sought by the action, the plaintifff may sue in the township, precinct or
city where the property is situated. °

SEC. 512. Judgment upon confession may be entered up in any
Justice’s Court in the State specified in the confession. The provisions
of Title Ten, Chapter Two of this Act shall apply to such confession,
the word “Justice” being substituted for that of Clerk wherever it
may occur. 7

SEC. 513. Justices’ Courts shall have jurisdiction of. an action 3
upon the voluntary appearance of the parties without summons, with- 5
out regard to {their residences, or the place where the cause of action
me, or the subject matter of the action may exist.

CHAPTER 2.—SUMMONs, ARREST, ATTACHMENT, AND CLAIM or
PERSONAL . PROPERTY.

SEC. 514. Actions in Justices’ Courts shall be commenced by filing .
a copy of the account, note, bill, bond or instrument upon which the
action is brought, or a concise statement in writing of the cause of action, and the issuance of a summons thereon, or by the voluntary appearance and pleadings of the parties Without summons. In the latter
case the action shall be deemed commenced at. the time of appearance.

SEC. 515. When a guardian is necessary he shall be appointed by ‘
the Justice as follows: First—If the infant be a plaintifff, the appoint- '
ment shall be made before the summons is issued, upon the application
of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or upwards; if
under that age, upon 'the application of some relative or friend. The
consent in" Writing of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible for costs, if he fail in the action, shall be first filed with the Justice.
Second—If the infant be defendant the guardian shall be appointed at
the time the summons is. returned or before the pleadings. It shall be
the right of the infant to nominate his own guardian, if the infant be
over fourteen years of age, and the proposed guardian be present and

consent in writing to be appointed. Otherwise the Justice luay appoint any suitable person who gives such consent.

SEC. 516. The summons shall he addressed to the defendant by name,
or 'if his name be unknown, by a fictitious name, and shall summon him
to appear before the Justice at his office, naming its township, precinct,
or city, and at a time specified therein, to answer the complaint of the
plaintifff, for a cause of action therein described, in general terms, sufhcitho apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him;
and in action for money or damages shall state the amount for which
the plaintifff will take judgment if the defendant fail to appear and
answer. It shall be subscribed by the Justice before whom it is
returnable. ‘ ,

SEC. 517 . The time mentioned in the summons for the appearance
of the defendant and the time of service shall be as follows: First—
When the summons is accompanied with an order to arrest the defendant, it shall be returnable immediately. Second—When the defendant is not a resident of the township or city, or when the plaintifff is not
a resident, it shall be returnable not more than two days from its date,
and shall be served at least one day before the time for appearance,
except in cases where the summons is to be served by publication, or
out of the State, or- by posting notices thereof, when it shall be made
returnable at any time designated by the Justice, not exceeding four
months from the date.of its issuance. Third—In all other cases it shall
be returnable in not less than two or more than ten days from its date,
and. shall be served at least two days before the time for appearance.

SEC. 518. The summons shall be served by the Sheriff or 3 Constable of the county, or by any male citizen of the United States over
twenty-one years of age, as follows: First—If the action be against a
corporation, by a delivery of a copy to the President or other head of
the corporation, or to the Secretary, Cashier or managing agent thereof, or when no such officer resides in the county, to a Director resident
etherein. Second—If against a minor under the age of fourteen years,
by delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to his father, mother or
guardian; or if there be none within the county, then to any person
having the care or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or
in whose service he is. Third—If against a person judicially declared
to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and
for whom a guardian has been appointed, by delivery of a c0py to such
guardian. Fourth—In all other cases, by delivery of the copy to the
defendant personally.

SEC. 519. Sections Thirty to Thirty-five, both inclusive, of Title
Three of this Act are hereby made applicable to Justices’ Courts, and
proceedings therein—the word “Justice ” being inserted wherever the
word “ Clerk” o'r “Judge” occurs, and the word “ Constable” inserted
wherever the word “ Sheriff ” occurs, and the word “ complaint” whenever it occurs being strick’en out and disregarded; provided, that in
actions upon contracts, for the payment of money, the Justice may, in his
discretion,instead of ordering publication of summons or the appointment
of an attorney to appear for the defendant, order the service of the
summons to be made by posting copies thereof in three public places in
the township, within one day after the same is issued.

SEC. 520. An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on- a
summons issued by the Justice, and the defendant may be arreSIed
lill'l'e'rlll lay all»; Film-iii or Constable at the time of serving the summons,
{Uni brought het'nre. the Justice, and there detained until duly discharged

in the following cases, arising after the passage of . this Act: First—In
an action for the recovery of money or damages on a cause of action
arising upOn a contract, express or implied. when the defendant is about
to depart from the State, with intent to defraud his creditors; or where
the action is for the willful injury to the person, or for taking, detaining
or injuring per’sonai property. Second—:In an action for a fine or pen—
alty, or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied,
or converted to his own use by an attorney, factor, broker, agent or
clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by any other person
in a tiduc'iary capacity. Third—When the defendant has been guilty
of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which
the action is brought. Fourth—When the defendant has removed, concealed or disposed of his property, or is about; to do so, with intent to
defraud his creditors. '

SEC. 521. Before an order of arrest shall be madeethe party applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the Justice, by the affidavit of himself or some other person, the facts on which the application is founded.
The plaintifff shall also execute and deliver to the Justice a written
undertaking, with two or more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant necover judgment, the plaintifff will pay to him all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least two hundred dollars.

SEC. 522. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested shall
be taken to the office of th Justice who made the order, and ifjhe be
absent or unable to try the action, or it"it be made to appear to him by
the affidavit of defendant that he is a material witness in the action, the
officer shall immediately take the defendant before the next Justice of
the city, precinct or township, who shall take cognizance of the action,
and proceed thereon as if the summons had been issued and the order
of arrest made by him.

SEC. 523. The officer making the arrest shall immediately give no- ,
tice thereof to the plaintifff or his attorney or agent, and endorse on the f
summons, and subscribe a certificate, stating the time of serving then
same, the time of the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintifff.

SEC. 524. The officer making an arrest shall keep the defendant in :
custodyuntil duly discharged by order of the Justice.

SEC. 525. The defendant under arrest, on his appearance with the
officer, may demand a trial immediately; and upon such demand beihg
made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond three hours, except by the
trial of another action pending at the time, or he may have an adjourn~
ment, and be discharged on giving bail, as provided in the next section.
An adjournment at the request of the plaintifff, beyond three hours, shall
discharge the defendant from arrest, but the action may proceed not—
withstanding; and the defendant shall be subject to arrest on the execution in the same manner as if he had not’been so discharged.

SEC. 526. If the defendant, on his appearance, demand an adjournment, the same shall be. granted, on condition that he execute and file
with the Justice an undertaking, with two or more sufficient sureties, to
be approved by the Justice, to the effect that he will render himself
amenable to the process of the Court during the pendency of the action,
> and such as may be issued, to enforce the judgment therein, or that the
sureties will pay to the’plaintifff the amount of any judgment which heé
may recover in the action. On filing the undertaking specified in this

section, the Justice shall order the defendant to be discharged from
custody.

HH'AH‘H

HmHn.h—l

SEC. 527. The following sections of Chapter One, Title Five, of
this Act shall be applicable to Justices’ Courts and proceedings therein,
to wit: Eighty to eighty-five, both inclusive; and the following of Chapter Two, same Title, to wit: Ninety-nine to one hundred and two, both
inclusive; one hundred and four and one hundred and seven to one
hundred and ten, both inclusive; the word “Justice? being inserted in
lieu of “ Clerk” or “ Judge” wherever they occur, and the word “ Constable” in lieu of the word “ Sheriff ;” also Sections One Hundred and
Twenty-three to One Hundred and Forty-four, both inclusive; the word
“ Justice” being inserted in lieu of that of “ Judge” and “ Clerk” whenever it may occur; provided, that the writ of attachment shall be directed to the “ Sheriff” or any Constable of any county of this State,
and may be executed by the Constable, and wherever the word “Sheriff” occurs the word “ Constable” shall be deemed to be also inserted.

CHAPTER 3.—PL1iAi)INGs AND TRIAL.

SEC. 528. The pleadings in Justices’ Courts shall be: First—
The complaint by the plaintifff, stating the cause of action. Second—
The answer by the defendant, stating the ground of the defense.

SEC. 529. The pleadings shall be in writing, and verified by the
oath of the party, his agent or attorney, when the action is: First—
For the foreclosure of any mortgage or the enforcement of any lien on
real or personal property. Second—Of actions for the possession of
- lands or tenements.

SEC. 530. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them shall
be entered by the Justice in his docket; when’ in writing, they shall
be filed in his office, and a reference made to them in the docket.
Pleadings shall not be required to be in any. particular form, but shall
be such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what
is intended.

SEC. 531. The complaint shall state in a plain and direct manner
the facts constituting the cause of action.

SEC. 532. The answer may contain a denial of any of the material facts stated in the complaint which the defendant believes to be
untrue, and also a statement, in a plain'and direct manner, of any
other facts constituting a defense or a co’linter claim upon. which an action may be brought by the defendant against the plaintifff in a. Justice’s
Court.

SEC. 533. A, statement in answer that .the party has not sufficient
knowledge or information in respect to a particular. allegation in the
previous pleading of the adverse party, to form a belief, shall be
deemed equivalent to a denial. .

-SEC. 534. When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon
an account or instrument for the payment of money only, it shallbe
sufficient for the party to deliver a c0py of the account or instrument
to the Court, and to state that there is due to him thereupon from the
adverse party a specilied sum, which he claims to recover or set off.
The Court may, at the time of the pleading, require that the original
account or instrument be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse
party, and a copy to be furnished, or' if it be not so exhibited and a

reopy furnished, may prohibit its being afterwards given in evidence.

SEC. 535. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file with the
Justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the promissel'y

note, bill of exchange or other written obligation for the payment of
money, upon which the action is brought, the defendant shall be

I deemed to admit the genuineness of the signatures of the makers, indorsers or assignors thereof, unless he specificallys deny the same in
his answer, and verify the answer by his oath. _

SEC. 536. Either party may object to a pleading of his adversary,
or to any part thereof, that it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him
to understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defense, although it be taken as true. If the Court deem the objection well
founded, it shall order the pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend, the defective pleading shall be disregarded.

SEC. 537. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allegations in a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the
Court be satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby. SEC. 538. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the
trial, to supply a deficiency or' omission, when by such amendment
substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after
the issue, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the Court, by
oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The
Court may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the
Court, not exceeding twenty dollars, but such payment shall not be required unless an adjournment is made necessary by the amendment,
nor shall an amendment be allowed after a witness is sworn on the
trial, when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.

’ SEC. 539. The parties shall not be at liberty’?5 give evidence
upon any question, which involves the title to, or the right of possession to, or the possession of, real property or mining claims,
or upon any questiominvolving boundaries to land, or the legality
of any tax, impost, assessment, toll Or municipal fine, nor shall
any issue presenting such question be tried by the Justice, and if
it appear from the plaintifff’s own showing, on the trial, or from
the answer of the, defendant, verified by his oath, that the determination of the action will necessarily involve either of such questions, the Justice shall suspend all further proceedings in the actidn.
and certify the pleadings, 015’ if the pleadings be oral, a transcript of
the same from his docket to the District Court for the county, and
from the'time of filing such pleadings or transcript with the Clerk of
the District Court, such District Court shall have over the action the

. same jurisdiction as if it were originally commenced therein.

SEC. 540. If at any time before the trial it appear to the satisfaction of the Justice before whom the action is brought, by affidavit of
either party, that such Justice is a material witness for either party. or
if either party make affidavit that he has reason to believe, and does
believe, that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial before such J ustice, by reason of the interest, prejudice, or bias of the Justice, on stating the facts upon which such belief is founded, the action shall be
transferred to some other Justice of the same or neighboring township
or precinct, and in case a jury he demanded, and affidavit of either
party is made that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial, on account
of the bias or prejudice of the citizens of the township or precincy
against him, the action shall be transferred to some other Justice of 
Peace in the county, but only one transfer shall be allowed to either

party. The Justice to whom an action may be transferred by the provisions of this section shall have and exercise the same jurisdiction
over the action as if it had been originally commenced before him.
The Justice ordering the transfer of the action to another Justice shall
immediately transmit to the latter, on payment by the applicant of all
Justice’s and officers’ costs unpaid and due from him and the costs of
making a copy of the docket. for transmission, all the papers in the action, together with a certified transcript from his docket of the proceedings therein; provided, that if the applicant shall fail to pay said costs
for the space of one hour, the Justice shall vacate the order changing
the place of trial and proceed to try the cause as though such order had
never been made. The Justice to whom the case is transferred shall
issue a notice stating the time and place when and where the trial
will take place; which notice shall be served upon the parties by any
officer authorized to serve process in a Justice’s Court, or by any person specially appointed by the Justice for that purpose, at least one
day before the trial. '

SEC. 541. The trial maybe adjourned by consent or upon application of either party, without the consent of the other, for a period not
exceeding ten days, (except as provided in the next section) as follows:
First—The party asking the adjournment shall, if required by his adversary, prove, by his own oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of
material testimony which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial,
and shall show in what respect the testimony expected is material, and
that he has used due diligence to procure it, and has been unable to
do so. Second—The party asking the adjournment shall also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness
of such adverse party who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition before the Justice, which shall accordingly be done, and the testi—
mony so taken may be read on the trial, with the same effect and
subject to the same objections as if the witness were produced. But
such objections shall be made at the time of taking the deposition.
Third—The Court may also require the moving party to state upon
affidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse
party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and that it
be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as
improper, the trial shall not be postponed.

SEC. 542. An adjournment may be had either at the time of‘joining issue or at any subsequent time to which the case may‘stand
adjourned, on application of either party, for a period longer than ten
days, but not to exceed four months from the time of the return day
of the summons, upon proof, by the oath of the party or otherwise, to
the satisfaction of the Justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial
before the time to which he desires an adjournment ,for want of material evidence, particularly describing it, and that the delay has not
been made necessary by an [any] act of negligence on his part since the
action was commenced; that he has used due diligence to procure the
evidence, and has been unable to do so, and that he expects to procure
the evidence at the. time stated by him ; provided, that if the adverse
party admit that such evidence would be given. and consent that it may
be considered as given on the trial, or offered or overruled as imprOper,
the adjournment shall not be had. .

SEC. 543. No adjournment shall be granted for a period longer
1 than ten days, upon 'the application of either party, except upon condi‘* tion that such party file an undertaking, with sureties, to be approved

by the Justice, to the effect that they will pay to the opposite party the
amount of any judgment that may be recovered against the party
applying, in the money or currency claimed in the pleading of the
plaintifff. .

SEC. 544. If the plaintifff fail to appear at the return day of the
summons, the action shall be dismissed. If the defendant fail to appear j
at the return day of the summons, or if either party fail to attend at a ‘
day to which the trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleading or proof on his part, the case may nevertheless proceed
at the request of ’”the adverse party, and judgment shall be given in
conformity with the pleadings and proofs.

SEC. 545. A trial by jury shall be demanded at the time ofjoining '
issue, and shall be deemed waived if neither‘party then demand it.{
When demanded, the trial of the case shall be adjourned until a time
and place fixed for the return of the jury. If neither party desire an ‘
adjournment, the time and place shall be determined by the Justice, 1
and shall be on the same day or within the next two days. The jury
shall be summoned upon an order of the Justice, from the citizens'of
the city, precinct or township, and not from the bystanders.

SEC. 546. At the time appointed for the trial the Justice shall
proceed to call fromthe jurors summoned the names of the persons to
constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. The jury, by consent of
the parties, may consist of any number not more than twelve, nor less
than four. 7 ‘

SEC. 547. If a sufficient number of competent and indifferent
jurors do not attend, the Justice shall direct others to be summoned
from the vicinity, and not from the bystanders, sufficient to complete
the jury.

SEC. 548. Either party may challenge the jurors. The challenges
shall be either peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled
to three peremptory challenges. Either party may challenge for cause
on any grounds set’forth in Section One Hundred and Sixty-four.
Challenges for cause shall be tried by the Justice in a summary manner, who may examine the juror challenged and witnesses.

CHAPTER 4.—JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.

SEC. 549. Judgment that the action be dismissed without prejudice
to a new action may be. entered with costs in the following cases:
First—When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is
finally submitted. Second—When he fails to appear at the time
Specified in the summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour
thereafter. Third—When it is objected at the trial and appears by
the evidence that the action is brought in the wrong county, township,
city or precinct; but if the objection be taken and overruled, it shall
be cause only of reversal on appeal, and shall not otherwise invalidate
the judgment; if not taken at the trial, it shall be deemed waived, and
shall not be cause of reversal.

SEC. 550. When the defendant fails to appear and answer, judg—
ment shall be given for the plaintifff as follows: First—When a copy
of the amount, note, bill or other obligation upon which the action is
brought was filed with the Justice at the time the summons was issued,
judgment shall be given without further evidence, for the sum specified
in the summons. Second—In other cases the Justice shall bear the

evidence of the plaintifff and render judgment for such sum only as
shall appear by'the evidence to be just, but in no case exceeding the
amount specified in the summons. *

SEC. 551. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial be not demanded, the
Justice shall hear the evidence and decide all questions of fact and
of law, and render judgment accordingly.

SEC. 552. Upon a verdict, the Jastice shall immediately render
judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the Justice, judgment
shall be entered immediately after the close of the trial, if the defendant has been arrested and is still in custody; in other cases it shall be
entered within four days after the close of the trial. If the action be
on contract against two or more defendants, and the summons is served
on one or more, but not on all, the judgment shall be entered up only
against those who were served or have voluntarily appeared, if the
contract he [a] several or a joint and several contract; but if the contract be a joint contract only, the judgment shall be entered up against
all the defendants, but shall only be enforced against the joint. property
of all and the individual property of the defendants served or who

Shave voluntarily appeared in the action. In an action on a contract or
obligation for the direct payment of money, made payable in a specified or agreed kind of money or currency, judgment for the plaintiE‘,
whether the same be by default or after verdict or decision of the
Court, shall follow the contract or obligation, and be made payable in
the kind of money or currency specified therein or agreed thereby.

SEC. 553. When the amount found due to either party exceeds
the sum for which the Justice is authorized to enter judgment, such
party may remit the excess, and judgment may be rendered for the
residue. .

SEC. 554. If the defendant at any time before the trial offer in
writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum,
the plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore, with the costs
then accrued; but if he do not accept such offer beforethe trial, and
fail to recover in the action a sum equal to the offer, he shall not recover costs, but costs shalljbe adjudged against him, and if he recover,
deduct from his recovery. But the offer and failure to accept it shall
not be given in evidence to ail‘ect the recovery otherwise than as to
costs as above provided.

SEC. 555. When a judgment is rendered in a case where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it shall be so
stated in the judgment and .entered in the docket.

SEC. 556. When the prevailing party is entitled to costs by this
chapter, the Justice shall add their amount to the verdict, or in case of
a failure of the plaintifff" to recover, or—' in case of a dismissal of the action. shall enter up judgment in favor of defendant for the amount of
such costs. SEC. 557. The Justice, on demand of the party in whose favor
judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof, which may
be filed and docketed in the office of the Clerk of the District. Court
for the county where the judgment was rendered. The time of the
receipt of the transcript by the Clerk shall be noted by him thereon
and entered in the docket, and from that time executions may be
issued by the Clerk on such judgments, to the Sheriff of any other
county of the State, in the same manneras [upon] judgments recovered
in the higher Courts. All process upon judgments recovered in Justices’ Courts, to be executed within the same county, shall be issued

by the Justice or his successors in office. No judgment rendered by
a Justice of the Peace shall create any lien upon any°lands of the defendant, unless a transcript of such judgment certified by the Justice,
be filed and recorded in the office of the County Recorder. When
such transcript is to be filed in any other county than that in which the
Justice resides, such transcript shall be accompanied with the certificate of the County Clerk as to the ofi‘icial character of the Justice.
When so filed and recorded in the office of the Recorder for any
county, such judgment shall constitute a lien upon, and bind the lands
and tenements of the judgment debtor, situated in the county where
such transcript may be filed and recorded in favor of such judgment
creditor, as if such judgment had been rendered in the District Court
for such county.

SEC. 558. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in a Justice’s Court may be issued on the application of the party entitled
thereto, at any time within five years from the entry of judgment.

SEC. 559. The execution when issued by a Justice, shall .be directed
to the Sheriff or to a Constable of the county, and subscribed by the
Justice by whom the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in
office. It shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, by stating the names
of the parties, and the name of the Justice before whom, and of the
county and [the] township or city where, and the time when it was rendered, the amount of judgment, if it be for money, and the kind of
money or currency in which it is payable, and if less than the whole
is due, the true amount due thereon. It shall contain, in like cases,
similar directions to the Sheriff or Constable as are required by the
provisions of Title Seven of this Act, in an execution to the Sheriff.

SEC. 560. The Sheriff or Constable to whom the execution is directed .shall proceed to execute the same in the same manner as the
Sherid‘ is required by the provisions of Title Seven of this Act to proceed upon executions directed to him; and the Constable, when the
execution is directed to him, shall be vested for that purpose with all'
the powers of the Sheriff. And Sections Two Hundred and Fourteen,
Two Hundred and Fifteen,and [from] Two Hundred and Seventeen to
Two Hundred and Thirty-six, both inclusive, and Two Hundred and
Thirty-eight and Two Hundred and Thirty-nine of Chapter One, said
Title, and Chapter Two of the same Title, are hereby made applicable
to Justices’ Courts and proceedings therein, the word “ Justice ” being
inserted in lieu of the words “Judge” and “Clerk,” whenever they
occur, and a Constable to whom, and his successor in ofi‘ice, the writ
is given, shall have all the powers and be subject to all the duties and
liabilities therein given to or imposed upon the Sheriff ; provided,
that the words “in an amount exceeding fifty dollars,” in Section
Two Hundred and Forty-three, shall be deemed omitted; provided
further, that sales of real property shall be made at or upon the property sold.

CHAPTER 5.-—GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 561. Those provisions of this Act which are referred to in
this Title and no other, shall, in addition to the provisions embraced in
this Title, be applicable to Justices’ Courts and proceedings therein.

SEC. 562. Every Justice shall keep a book denominated a
“Docket,” in which he shall enter: First—The title of every action
or proceeding. Second—The object of the action or proceeding; and

if a sum of money be claimed, the amount of the demand. Third—
The date of the summons and the time of its return ; and if an order
to arrest the defendant be made, or a writ of attachment be issued, a
statement of these facts. Fourth—The time when the parties or either
of them appear, or their non-appearance, if default be made ; a minute
of the pleadings and motions, ifin writing, referring to them; if not in
writing, a concise statement of the material parts of the pleading, and
of all motions made during the trial by either party, and his decisions
thereon. Fifth—Every adjournment, stating on Whose appliéation,
whether on oath, evidence or consent, and to what time. Sixth—The
demand for a trial by jury, when the same is made, and by whom
made, the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial and
return of the jury. Seventh—The names of the jury who appear and
are sworn; the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request.
Eighth—The verdict of the jury, and when received. If the jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge.
Ninth—The judgment of the Court, specifying the costs included, and
the time when rendered. Tenth—The issuing of execution, when
issued, and to whom; the renewals thereof, if any, and when made,
and a statement of any money paid to the Justice, and when and by
whom. Eleventh—The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given,
and of the appeal bond, if any be filed, and of the making and delivery
of a transcript of his judgment [or] docket.

SEC. 563. The several particulars of the last section specified shall
be entered under the title of the action to which they relate, and at the
time when they occur. Such entries in a Justice’s docket, or a. transcript thereof, certified by the Justice or his successor in office, shall be
primary evidence to prove the facts so stated therein.

SEC. 564. AJustice shall keep an alphabetical index to his docket,
in which shall be entered the names of the parties to each judgment,
with a reference to the page of entry. The names of the plaintifffs
shall be entered in the index, in the alphabetical order of the first
letter of the family names.

SEC. 565. It shall be the duty of every Justice, upon the expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his successor his otlicial
dockets, as well his own as those of his predecessors, which may be in
his custody, to keep as public records. If the. office of a Justice
become vacant by his death or removal from the township, precinct or
city, or otherwise, before his successor is elected and qualified, the
dockets in possession of such Justice shall be deposited with the County
Clerk of the county, to be by him delivered to the successor in office
of the Justice. _

SEC. 566. Any Justice with whom the docket of his predecessors
is deposited, may issue execution or other process, upon a judgment
there entered and unsatisfied in the same manner and with the same
effect as the Justice by whom the judgment was entered might have
done. In case of the creation of a new county or the change of the
boundary between two counties, any Justice into whose hands the
docket of a Justice formerly acting as such within the same Territory
may come, shall for the purposes of this section be considered the
successor of said former Justice.

SEC. 567. The Justice elected or appointed to Fill a vacancy shall
he. {hemmed tlw samwssor of the Justice whose office became vacant
before the t'XiJll‘itllUll of a full term. When a full term expires, the
same 01' another [.wrscn elected to take the office in the same township,
precinct 01' city from that time shall be deemed the successor.

SEC. 568.. When two or more Justices are equally entitled, under the :
last section,to be deemed the successors in office of a Justice, the Judge
of a District Court for the county shall, by a certificate subscribed by
him and filed in the office of the County Clerk, designate which Justice
shall be the successor of a Justice going out of office, or whose office
has becomevacant. ‘ '

SEC. 569. The summons, execution, and every other paper made 1
or issued by a Justice, except a subpoena, shall be filled up without a 1
blank left to be filled by another, otherwise it shall be void.

SEC. 570. In case of the sickness, or other disability, or necessary

absence of a Justice on a return day of a summons, or at the time
appointed for a trial, another Justice of the same county or city may,
at his request, attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested
with the power, for the time being, of the Justice before whom the
summons was returnable. In that case the proper entry of the proceedings befor be attending Justice, subscribed by him, shall be made
in the docket he Justice before whom the summons was returnable.
If the case be adjourned, the Justice before whom the summons was
returnable may resume jurisdiction.
’ SEC. 571. The Justice may, at the request of a party, and on being
satisfied that it is expedient, specially depute any discreet person of
suitable age, and not interested in the action, to serve a summons or
execute [execution] with or without an order to arrest the defendant, or
with or without a writ of attachment. The said Justice shall be liable
on his official bond for all official acts of the person so deputed. Such
deputation shall be in writing on the process.

SEC. 572. The person deputed shall have the authority of a Constable in relation to the service, execution and return of such process,
and shall be subject to the same obligations. .

SEC. 573. A Constable, notwithstanding the expiration of his term
of office, may proceed and complete the execution of all final process
which he has begun to execute in the same manner as if he still continued in office,and his sureties shall be liable to the same extent.

SEC. 574. A Justice may punish as for contempt persons guilty of
the following acts, and no other: First—Disorderly, contemptuous,
or insolent behavior toward the Justice while holding the Court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding.
Second—A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance in the presence of the Justice or in the immediate vicinity of the
Court held by him, tending to interrupt the due course of trial or other
Judicial proceedings. Third—Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a lawful order or process, made or issued by him. Fourth—
Disobedienee to a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness. Fifth—Rescuing any person or property in the
Eustpdy of an officer by virtue of an order or process of the Court held

y m.

SEC. 575. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view
and presence of the Justice, it may be punished summarily, for which
an order shall be made reciting the facts, as occurring in such immediate
View and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is
thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view
and presence of the Justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued by such
Justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and brought
before the Justice immediately, when an opportunity to be heard in his

defense or excuse shall be given. The Justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the offense. A Justice may punish
for contempts by tine or imprisonment, or both; such fine not to exceed in any case one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment one
day. SEC. 576. The conviction, specifying particularly the offense and
the judgment thereon, shall be entered by the Justice in his docket.

SEC. 577. Justices of the Peace may issue subpoenas in any action
or proceeding in the Courts held by them, and final process on any
judgment recovered therein, to any part of the county. A Justice of
the Peace may issue a summons to any person a resident of his township. precinct or city, to appear before him at his office to act as interpreter in any action or proceeding in his Court. ' Such summons shall
be served and returned in like manner as a subpoena issued by a Justice. Any person so summoned shall, for a failure 0 attend at the
time and place named in the summons, be deemed of a contempt,
and may be punished accordingly.

SEC. 578. Justices of the Peace may issue co missions to take the
depositions of witnesses out of this State, and settle interrogatories, to
be annexed thereto, and direct the manner in which the commissions
shall be returned. The provisions of Title Eleven of this Act, so far
as the same are consistent with the jurisdiction and powers of Justices’
Courts, shall be applicable to Justices’ Courts, and to actions and proceedings therein, the word “ Justice” being deemed inserted in lieu of
“ Clerk” and “ Judge,” wherever the same occurs.

SEC. 579. A new trial may be granted by the.Justice, on motion,
within ten days after the entry of judgment, for any of the following
causes: First—Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could
not have guarded against. Second —Excessive damages, appearing to
have been given under the influence of passion ; or, Third—Insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision. Fourth—
Newly discovered evidence material for the party making the application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and
produced at the time. ‘

SEC. 580. The application shall be made upon atiidavit and notice.
The atiidavit shall be filed with the Justice, with a statement of the
grounds upon which .the party intends to rely. The adverse party may
use counter affidavits on the motion,provided ,they be filed one day
previous to the hearing of the motion.

SEC. 581. Any party dissatislied with a judgment rendered in a
Justice’s Court, may appeal therefrom to the District Court for [the]
county, any time within thirty days after the rendition of judgment.
The appeal shall be taken with the Justice, and serving a copy on the
adverse party.

SEC. 582. All causes appealed to the District Court shall be tried/J
anew in, said Court, and said Court may regulate by rule the practice
in such cases, in all respects not provided for by statute. . j

SEC. 583. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and 93pm of
the fees of the Justice, and filing an undertaking as required in the 3
next section, the Justice shall, within five days, transmit to the Clerk
of the District Court a certified cepy of his docket, the pleadings. all
notices, motions and other papers filed in the cause, the notice of appeal and undertaking filed ; and the Justice may be compelled by the
District Court, by an order entered. upon motion, to transmit such papers, and may be fined for neglect or refusal to transmit the same. A

   

certified copy of such order may be served on the Justice, by the party
or his attorney. In the District Court, either party shall have the
benefit of all legal objections made in the Justice’s Court. '

SEC. 584. An appeal frorrba Justice’s Court shall not be effectual for
any purpose unless an undertaking be filed, within five days after filing
the notice of appeal, with two or more sureties, in the sum of one, hundred dollars, in gold coin of the United States, for the payment of the
costs on the appeal, or if a stay of proceedings be claimed, in a sum
equal to twice the amount of the judgment, including costs, when the
judgment is for the payment of money, or twice the value of the property, including costs, when the judgment is for the recovery of specific
personal property, and shall be to the effect, when the action is for the
recovery of money, that the appellant will pay the amount of the judgment appealed from, and all costs if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, on [or] the amount of any judgment, and all costs that may be
recovered against him in said action in the District Court. When the
action is for the recovery of specific personal property, the undertaking
shall be to the effect that the appellant will pay the judgment and
costs appealed from, and obey the order of the Court made therein, if
the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or will pay the amount of any
judgment and costs which may be recovered against him in said action
in the District Court, and will obey any order made by the Court
therein. The undertakingshall be accompanied by the affidavits of the
sureties that they are residents of the county and are each worth the
amount specified in the undertaking over and above all their just debts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution. The adverse party may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties,
within two days after the filing of the undertaking, and unless they and
other sureties justify before the Justice from whose Court the appeal is
taken, within two days thereafter, upon notice to the adverse party,
. the appeal shall be regarded as if no undertaking had been given. A
deposit of the amount of the judgment appealed from, including all
costs, or of the value of the property and all costs, in actions for the
recovery of specific personal property with the Justice, shall be equivalent to the filing of the undertaking in this section mentioned; and in
such cases the Justice shall transmit the money to the Clerk of the District Court, to be by him paid out on the order of the Court; and all
such undertakings shall be made payable in the currency in which the
Judgment appealed from is payable.

SEC. 585. If an execution be issued on the filing of the undertaking, staying all proceedings, the Justice shall, by order, direct the officer
to stay all proceedings on thesame. Such officer shall, upon payment
of his fees for services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish
'all prOperty levied upon, and deliver-the same to the judgment debtor,
together with all monies collected from sales or otherwise. If his
fees be not paid, the officer may retain so much of the property or proceeds thereof, as may be necessary to pay the same. '

SEC. 586. Costs and necessary disbursements in the action shall
beallowed to the prevailing party in a Justice’s Court. The party in
Whose favor a judgment is rendered, and who claims his costs, shall file
With the Justice, within two days after the verdict or decision of the
Court, a memorandum of the items of his costs and necessary disburse—
fnents in the action or proceeding, which'shall be verified as prescribed
In Section Four Hundred and Eighty-six. ’

$30. 587. Justices of the Peace shall receive from the Sherilf or

Constables of their county all monies collected on any process or order
issued by their Courts respectively, and all monies paid to them in
their ofiicial capacity, and shall pay the same over to the parties entitled or authorized to receive them, without delay. For a violation
of this section they may be! removed from their office, and shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. ,

SEC. 588. Justices of the Peace may in all cases require a deposit
of money, or an undertaking, as security for costs of Court, before
issuing a summons. . .

SEC. 589. The provisions of Chapter One, Title Ten, and Sections
Four Hundred and N inety-five to Five Hundred and Three, both inclusive, and Five Hundred and- Six to Five Hundred and Eight. both
inclusive, Title Fifteen of this Act, and the miscellaneous provisions of
Title Eighteen, shall be applicable to Justices’ Courts and actions
therein, the word “ Justice” being deemed inserted in lieu of the word
“ Clerk,” wherever it occurs. '

I) 25‘?!) , ,t , TITLE XVIII. '

3"" ' a
U  f c ‘ i}. \ 'i Mscellaneous Provisions.

' .

SEC. 590. The Supreme Court may make rules not inconsistent
with the Constitution and laws of the State, for its own government
and the government of the District Courts ; but such rules shall not be
in force until thirty days after their adoption and publication.

SEC. 591. If an action be brought against a Sheriff for an act done
by virtue of his office, and he give written notice thereon to the sureties on any bond of indemnity received by him. the judgment recovered
therein shall be conclusive evidence of his right to recover against such
sureties, and the Court or Judge in vacation, may, on motion, upon notice of five days, order judgment to be entered up against them for the
amount so recovered, including costs. .

SEC. 592. Words used in this Act in the present tense shall be
deemed to include the future as well as the present; words used in the
'singular number shall be deemed to include the plural, and the plural
the singular; writing shall be deemed to include printing or printed
paper; oath to include afiirmation or declaration; signature or subscription to include mark When the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own
name as a witness; the words “ real estate,” or “ real property,” to include mining claims. Whenever the word Territory shall be used, it
shall be held to include and apply to the District of Columbia.

SEC. 593. In all cases where can undertaking with sureties is required by the provisions of said Act, the Judge, Justice, or Clerk, or
other officer taking the same, shall, unless it is otherwise provided in
said Act, require the sureties to accompany the same with an atiidavit
that they are each worth the sum specified in the undertaking, over
and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusiveof property exempt from execution; provided, that when the amount specified in an
undertaking exceeds three thOusand dollars, and there are more than
two sureties thereon, they may state in their affidavits that they are sevL-I‘ully \N'Hl'lil amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking, if
the Wlmle- :Immm! in“ equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties. .

Sec. 5‘.) -1. Writs of certiorari and mandamus maybe issued in the

ca'ses prescribed by said Act, by a Judge of the Supreme Court or‘
District Court in vacations, and may in the discretion of the Judge 1
issuing the Writ be made returnable, and a hearing may be had on the
return thereof in vacation. '

SEC. 595. Whenever property has been taken by an officer under
awrit of attachment in pursuance of the provisions of said Act, and
it shall be made to appear satisfactorily to the Court, or a Judge
thereof, that the interests of the parties to the action will be sustained
by the sale thereof, the Court or Judge may order such prOperty to be
sold, in the same manner as property is sold under an execution, and
the proceeds to be deposited in Court to abide the judgment in the a 4’
tion. Such order shall be made only upon notice to the adverse part ,*
or his attorney, in case such party has been personally served with a.
summons in the action. ‘ .

SEC. 596. A c0py of any record, document or paper in the custody
of a public officer of this State, or of the United States, within this
State, certified under the official seal, or verified by the oath of such
officer, to be a true, full and correct copy of the original in his custody,
may be read in evidence in any action or proceeding in the Courts of I
this State, in like 'manner and with the like effect as the original could
be if produced. 0 ‘

SEC. 597. When two or more persons, associated in any business,
transact such business under a common name, whether it comprises the
names of such persons or not, the associates may be sued by such common name, the summons in such cases being served on one or more of
the associates, but the judgment in such case shall bind only the joint
property of the a'ssociates. ‘

SEC. 598. A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a.
contract, or for specific personal property, may at any time before
answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action makes
against him, and without any collusion with him, a demand upon the
same contract, or for the same property, upon due notice to such person, and the adverse party, apply to the Court for an order to substitute such person in his place and discharge him from liability to either
party, on his depositing in Court the amount claimed on the contract,
or delivering the property, or its value, to such person as the Court
may direct. and the Court may, in its discretion, make the order.

SEC. 599. Any person shall be entitled to intervene-in an action
who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success of either
of the parties to the action, or an interest against both. An intervention takes place when a third person is permitted to become a party to
an action between other persons, either by joining the plaintifff in
claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the claims of the, plaintifff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the plaintifff and the defendant.

SEC. 600. A third person may intervene either before or after
issue has been joined in the cause. '

SEC. 601. The intervention shall be by petition or complaint filed
in the Court in which the action is pending; and it must set forth the
grounds on which the in_tervention.rests. A copy of the petition or
complaint shall be served upon the party or parties to the action
against whom anything is demanded, who shall answer it as if it were
an original complaint in the action.

SEC. 602. The Court shall determine upon the intervention at the
same time that the action is decided; if the claim of the party intervening is not sustained he shall pay all costs incurred by the inter—
vendon.

SEC. 603. No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in aid of the
prosecution or defense of another action or proceeding, shall be allowed.

SEC. 604. In all cases not otherwise provided for in this Act, where
sureties are required to justify, they shall appear before the oHicer or
person authorized to take the justification, and may be examined under
oath by such officer or person and the adverse party touching their qualifications as sureties, which examination shall be reduced to writing and
subscribed by the sureties if required. If upon such examination it
shall appear to such officer or person that said sureties, or either of
them, have the necessary qualifications of such, he shall so indorse
upon the statement and cause the same to be filed, and thereupon the
justification shall be complete. 0

SEC. 605. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to interfere [with]
or affect any of the provisions of an Act entitled “An Act to establish
the financial transactions of this State upon a coin basis,” approved
February 2d, 1869; but the public debts therein mentioned shall be
paid in the currency prescribed by said Act.

SEC. 606. An Act of the Legislature of the late Territory of Nevada entitled “An Act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in the
Courts of Justice of the Territory of Nevada,” passed November
Twenty-ninth, Eighteen Hundred and Sixty-one; and an Act of said
Legislature entitled “An Act to amend an Act to regulate proceedings
in the Courts of Justice in this Territory,” passed February Twentieth, Eighteen Hundred and Sixty-one; and all Acts and parts of Acts
amendatory of or supplementary to said Act of November Twenty-ninth,
Eighteen Hundred and Sixty-one, and “An Act to regulate the civil
jurisdiction and practice in Justices’ Courts, and to consolidate into one
Act former provisions on the subject,” approved February Twenty-six,
Eighteen Hundred and Sixty-six, and all Acts and parts of Acts in
conflict with this Act are hereby repealed, but such repeal shall not
invalidate any judgment rendered, or order made, or any proceedings
already taken by virtue of said Acts or parts of Acts.


