3021. Section 1. The common law of England, so far as
it is not repugnant to, or in conflict with the constitution and
laws of the United States, or the constitution and laws of this
state, shall be the rule of decision in all the courts of this state.
Sec. 3022. Sec. 2. An Act entitled "An Act adopting the
common law," approved October 30, 18(51, is hereby repealed.
Van Sickle v. Haines, 7 Nev. 249; Evans v. Cook. 11 New 69;
Clark v. Clark, 17 Nev. 124: Wuest v. Wuest, 17 Nev. 217.
An Act to regulate proceedings in civil castes in the courts ofjustice
of this stale, and to repeal all other Acts in relation thereto.
Approved March 8, 1869, 19G.
TITLE I.
The provisions of this title as to parties to actions are made appli
cable to justices' courts, by section 509 of this Act.
Of the form of civil actions and the parties thereto.
Sec. 3023. Section 1. There shall be in this state but one
form of civil action for the enforcement or protection of private
rights, and the redress or prevention of private wrongs.
Sec. 3024. Sec. 2. In such action the party complaining shall
be known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the
defendant.
Sec. 3025. Sec 3. When a question of fact, not put in issue
by the pleadings, is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial
may be made, stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact
to be tried ; and such order shall be the only authority neces
sary for a trial.
Sec. 305>6. Sec. 4. Everv aotinn nhnll hp nvnspen tnd in the
Sec. 3027. Sec. 5. ' In the case of an assignment of a thing in
action, the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to
any set-off or other defense, existing :it the time of, or before
notice of, the assignment ; but this section shall not apply to a
negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange, transferred in
good faith, and upon good consideration, before due.
Sec. 3028. Sec. 0. An executor or administrator, or trustee
of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute,
may sue without joining with him the person or persons for
whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express
trust, within the meaning of this section, shall be construed to
include a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is
made for the benefit of another.
Sec. 3029. Sec. 7. When a married woman is a party, her
husband shall be joined with her, except that : First—When
the action concerns her separate property, she may sue alone.
Second—When the action is between herself and her husband,
jhe may sue or be sued alone.
Sec. 3030. Sec. 8. If a husband and wife be sued together,
the wife may defend for her own right.
Sec. 3031. Sec. 9. When an infant is a party, he shall appear
by guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which the
iction is prosecuted, or by a Judge thereof.
Sec. 3032. Seo. 10. The guardian shall be appointed as fol
lows : First— When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application
}f the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years ; or, if under
;hat age, upon the application of a relative or friend of the
Infant. Second—When the infant is defendant, upon the
lpplication of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years,
ind apply within ten days after the service of the summons ; if
iie be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then
ipon the application of any other party to the action, or of a
relative or friend of the infant.
Sec. 3033. Sec 11. A father, or, in case of his death or de
sertion of his family, the mother may maintain an action for
he injury or death of a child, and a guardian for the injury or
ieath of his ward.
Ricord v. Central Pacific R. R. Co.. 15 Nev. 1G7.
Sec. 3034. Sec. 12. All persons having an interest in the sub
ject of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be
joined as plaintifffs, except when otherwise provided in this Act.
Sec. 3035. Sec. 13. Any person may be made a defendant,
ivho has or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the
plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determina;ion
or settlement of the question involved therein.
Sec. 3036. Sec 14. Of the parties to the action, those who are
— ■■ - J_ i . . . i . l - li-i ■ • i i • j -re i * - ■ reason thereof being stated iu the complaint ; and when the
question is one of a common or general interest, of many per
sons, or when the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable
to bring them all before the court, one or more may sue or
defend for the benefit of all. Tenants in common, joint tenants,
or copartners, or any number less than all, may jointly or sev
erally bring or defend, or continue the prosecution or defense,
of any action for the enforcement of the rights of such person
or persons.
Keller v. Blasdel et al., 1 Nev. 401; Carpenter v. Johnson and
WmMoll. L Nev. ?M : Smith et al., claimants. I Nev. -'.H ; Manclelbaum
v. Russell «t ('row. 4 Nev. 551; Mavrieh v. drier and
Smith, 3 Nev. 52: Fowler v. Iloeston, 1 Nev. 4ti'.l; Crow v. Van
Sickle et al., <> Nev. lUi; Rieord v. Central Pacific R. R. Co., 15
Nev. 1(!7.
Sec. 3037. Sec. 15. Persons severally liable upon the same
obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of ex-l
change and promissory notes, and sureties on the same or
separate instruments, may all, or any of them, be included in
the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.
Sec. 3038. Sec. 1G. An action shall not abate by the death,
or other disability, of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of
the death or disability of u party, the court, on motion, may
allow the action to be continued by or against his representa
tive or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of
interest, the action may bo continued in the name of the orig
inal party, or the court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action. After verdict
shall have been rendered in any action for a wrong, such action
shall not abate by the death of any party, but the case shall
proceed thereafter in the same manner as in cases where the
cause of action now survives by law.
Virgin v. Brubaker et al., 4 Nev. 31.
Sec. 3039. Sec 17. The court may determine any controversy between parties before it, when it can be done without
prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights ; but
when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had
without the presence of other parties, the court shall order them
to be brought in, and thereupon the party directed by the
court shall serve a copy of the summons in the action, and the
order aforesaid in like manner of service of the original sum
mons, upon each of the parties ordered to be brought in, who
shall have ten days, or such time as the court may order, after
service, in which to appear and plead ; and in case such party
fail to appear and plead within the time aforesaid, the court
may cause his default to be entered, and proceed as in other
cases of default, or may make such other order as the condition
of the action and justice shall require.
Sec. 3040. Sec. 18. Actions for the following causes shall be
tried in the county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the court to
change the place of trial , as provided in this Act : First—For
the recovery of real property, or of an estate, or interest
therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or
interest, and for injuries to real propprty. Second —For the
partition of real property. Third —For the foreclosure of a
mortgage of re:il property ; provided, that where such real
property is situate partly in one county and partly in another,
the plaintifff may select either of said counties, and the county
so selected shall be the proper county for the trial of any or all
of such actions as are mentioned in the first, second, and third subdivisions of this section.
Sec. 3041. Sec. 19. Actions for the following causes shall be
tried in the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose,
subject to the like power of the court to change the place of
trial : First —For the recover}* of a penalty or forfeiture im
posed by statute ; except, that when it is imjxised for an offense
committed on a lal<e, river, -or other stream of water, situated in
two or more counties, the action may be brought in any county
bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and opposite to the
place where the offense was committed. Second —Against a
public officer, or person especially appointed to execute his
duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against
a person w'ho, by his command, or in his aid, does anything
touching the duties of such officer,
Sec. 3042. Sec. 20. In all other cuses, the action shall be tried
jn jjle COunty in which the defendants, or any one of them, may
reside at the commencement of the action ; or, if none of the
defendants reside in the state, or if residing in the stute, the
county in which they so reside be unknown to the plaintifff, the
same may be tried in any county which the plaintifff may desig
nate in his complaint; and if any defendant, or defendants, may
be about to depart from the state, such action may be tried in
any county where either of the parties may reside or service be
had, subject, however, to the power of the court to change the
place of trial, as provided in this Act.
Allen v. Reilly, 15 Xev. 452.
Sec. 30 43. Sec. 21. If the county designated for that purpose
jn ^]10 complaint be not the proper county the action may, not
withstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant before the
county designated in the complaint is not the proper county.
Second—When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial
cannot be had therein. Third— When the convenience of wit
nesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change.
Fourth —When from any cause the Judge is disqualified from
acting in the action. When the place of trial is changed, all
other proceedings shall be had in the county to which the place
of trial is changed, unless otherwise provided by consent of the
parties in writing duly filed, or by order of the court ; and the
papers shall be filed, or transferred, accordingly.
Slwkles v. Shc-ekles, :J. Nov. 104; Table Mountain Co. v. Waller's
Defeat Co.. 4 Nov. 'JIS; Keroheval ami Julian v. MoKcimew 4
Xov. I'M; State ox rel. Hooten v. MeKinney, 3 Nov. l!>t; liale
and NorciMss Co. v. Iiajazette and Coldcn Era Mining Co., 1
New 'i->2: Williams v. Keller, (i Nov. Ill; Lyon County v.
Washoe County, ti Xev. 211; Conley v. Chedic, 7 Xev. 'SM.
TITLE HI.
Of the manner of commencing civil actions.
Sec. 3044. Sec. 22. Civil action in the district courts shall be
conimenced by the filing of a complaint with the Clerk of the
court, and the issuance of a summons thereon ; provided, that
after the filing of the complaint a defendant in the action may
appear, answer, or demur, whether the summons has been issued
or not, and such appearance, answer, or demurrer, shall be
deemed a waiver of summons.
Kose, et al. v. Richmond Mining Co., 17 Xov. 25.
Sec. 3045. Sec 23. The Clerk shall indorse on the complaint
the day, month, and year the same is filed, and at any time
-within one year after the filing of the same the plaintifff may
cause to be issued a summons thereon. The summons shall be
issued and signed by the attorney of the jihiintiff, or by the
Clerk, and when issued by the Clerk shall be issued under the
seal of the court.
Sec. 3046. Sec 24. The summons shall state the parties to
tlie action, the court in which it is brought, the county in which
the complaint is filed, the cause and general nature of the
action, and require the defendant to appear and answer the
complaint within the time mentioned in the next section, after
the service of summons, exclusive of the day of service ; or
that judgment by default will be taken against him, according
to the prayer of the complaint ; briefly stating the sum of
money or other relief demanded in the complaint. The names
of the plaintifff's attorneys shall be indorsed upon the summons.
Sec. 3047. Sec. 25. The time in which the summons shall
require the defendant to answer the complaint shall be as fol
lows : First—If the defendant is served within the county in
which the action in brought, ten days. Second —If the defend
ant is served out of the county, but in the district in which the
action is brought, twenty days. Third—In all other cases,
forty days.
Sec. 3048. Sec. 26. There shall also be inserted in the sum
mons a notice in substance as follows ': First—In an action
arising on contract for the recovery only of money or damages,
that the plaintifff will take judgment for a sum specified therein
if the defendant fail to answer tho complaint. Second —In
other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint,
the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded
therein.
Sec. 3049. Sec. 27. In an action for the foreclosure of a
mortgage upon real property, or affecting the title or possession
of real property, the plaintifff, at the time of filing the complaint,
and the defendant, at the time of filing his answer, when affirma
tive relief is claimed in such answer, or at any time afterwards,
may file with the Recorder of the county in which the property,
or some part thereof, is situated, a notice of the pendency of
the action, containing the names of the parties, the object of
the action, and a description of the property, in that county
affected thereby, and the defendant may also in such notice
state the nature and extent of the relief claimed in the answer.
From the time of tiling, only, shall the pendency of the action
be constructive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the
property affected thereby ; and in case of the foreclosure of
such mortgage all purchasers or encumbrancers, by unrecorded
deed or other instrument in writing made prior to the filing of
such notice, and subsequent to the date of such mortgage, shall
be deemed and held purchasers or encumbrancers subsequent
to the filing of such notice, and subject thereto, unless they can
show that at the time of filing the notice the plaintifff had actual
notice of such purchase or encumbrance.
Smith ct al., Claimants, 4 Nov. 254.
Sec. 3080- Sec. 28. The summons shall be served by the
g]leriff 0f fhe county where the defendant is found, or by his
deputy, or by any citizen of the United States over twenty-one
years of age ; and, except as hereinafter provided, a copy of the
complaint, certified by the Clerk or the plaintifff's attorney, shall
be served with the summons. When the summons shall be served
by the Sheriff or his deputy, it shall be returned with the cer
tificate or affidavit of the officer, of its service, and of the service
of the copy of the complaint, to the office of the Clerk of the
county in which the action is commenced. When the summons
is served by any other person, as before provided, it shall be
returned to the office of the Clerk of the county in which the
action is commenced, with the affidavit of such person of its
service, and of the service of a copy of the complaint. If there
be more than one defendant to the action residing within the
plaint, as follows : First—If the suit be against a domestic
corporation, organized under the laws of this state, to the Pres
ident or other head of the corporation, Secretary, Cashier, or
managing agent thereof. Second—If the suit be against a
foreign corporation or a non-resident joint stock company or
association, doing business within this state, to an agent. Cash
ier, or Secretary, President, or other head thereof ; provided,
that if the suit be against a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of California, in addition to such personal
service, a copy of the summons, attached to a certified copy of
the complaint, shall be deposited in the postoffice, addressed to
the President and Trustees of said corporation, at their place
of business in the State of California, if the same is known, or
can by due diligence be ascertained ; and, provided further,
that when such California corporation has no President or other
head, Secretary, Cashier, or managing agent, upon whom service
of summons can be had, the court before which such action has
been brought, or the Judge thereof, may, upon the affidavit of
the plaintifff, showing the existence of the foregoing facts, make
an order for the service on the defendant of a copy of the sum
mons and complaint in the action. Such service may be made
by some competent person appointed by the court or the Judge
thereof, or by the Sheriff of the county, within the State of
California, within which the principal place of business of such
corporation may be located. Such service may be made per
sonally, within said State of California, by said Sheriff or other
person appointed by the court or Judge, and shall be made in
the same manner as required by law for the personal service of
summons within this state. The service shall be upon the
President or other head, Secretary, Cashier, or managing agent
of such corporation, and when proved to the satisfaction of the
court, by the sworn return of said Sheriff or other person so
appointed, shall be for all purposes as valid and effectual as if
made by a competent officer within this state ; and in case such
corporation shall not appear in the action within forty days
after such service, its default and judgment thereon may be
entered as in other cases. Third—If against a minor under the
age of fourteen years, to such minor personally, and also to his
father, mother, or guardian ; or, if there be none within the
state, then to any person having the care and control of such
minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is
employed. Fourth —If against a person judicially declared to
be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs,
and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to such guardian.
Fifth— In all other cases, to the defendant personally.
Sec. 30S2. Sec. 30. When the person on whom the service is
to be made resides out of the state, or has departed from the
state, or cannot, after due diligence, be found within the state,
or conceals himself to avoid the service of summons, or being a
corporation, or joint stock association, cannot be served as pro
vided in section twenty-nine, and the fact shall appear by
affidavit to the satisfaction of the court or a Judge thereof, and
it shall in like manner appear that a cause of action exists
against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be
made, or that he is a necessary or proper party to the action,
such court or Judge may grant an order that the service be made
by the publication of the summons.


Sec. 3053. Sec. 31. The order shall direct the publication to
^e made in a newspaper, to be designated by the court or Judge
thereof as one most lively to give notice to the person to be
served, for a period of six weeks, and at least once a week
during said time. In case of publication, where the residence
of anon-resident or absent defendant is known, the court or
Judge shall also direct a copy of the summons and complaint
to bo deposited in the postoffice, directed to the person to be
served at his place of residence. When publication is ordered,
personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint, out
of the state, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in
the postoffice. The service of summons shall be deemed com
plete in cases of publication at the expiration of six weeks from
the first publication, and in cases when a deposit of a copy of
the summons and complaint in the postoffice is also required, at
the expiration of six weeks from such deposit. In actions upon
contracts for the direct payment of money, evidence by written
instrument, the court may, instead of ordering publication,
appoint an attorney to tvppear and answer for the non-resident,
absent or concealed defendant, and conduct the proceedings on
his part. This section shall apply to proceedings had in jus
tices' courts —As amended, Statu. 1881, 1(51 ; 1883, 50.
Sec. 3054. Seo. 32. Where the action is against two or more
defendants, and the summons is served on one or more, but not
on all of them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows : First— If
the action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon a
contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless
the court otherwise direct ; and if he recover judgment, it
may be entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted,
so far only as that it may be enforced against the joint prop
erty of all and the separate property of the defendant served ;
or, second, if the action be against defendants severally liable,
1 1 - onmo inflij. '
the affidavit or certificate of such Sheriff or deputy ; or, second,
if by any other person, his affidavit thereof ; or, third, in case
of publication, the affidavit of the publisher, his foreman orj
principal clerk, showing the same, and an affidavit of a deposit
of a copy of the summons in the postoffice, if the same shall
have been deposited ; or, fourth, the written admission of the
defendant.
Sec. 3086. Sec. 34. In case of service otherwise than by
publication, the certificate or affidavit shall state the time andJ
place of the service.
Victor M. & M. Co. v. Justices' Court, 18 Nev. 21.
Sec. 3057. Sec. 35. From the time of the service of the summons
in a civil action, the court shall be deemed to have ac
quired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent
proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a defendant shall be
equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him.
TITLE IV.
Of the pleadings in civil actions,.
Sec. 3058. Sec. 3G. The pleadings are the formal allegations
by the parties of their respective claims and defenses, lor the
judgment of the court.
Sec. 3059- Sec 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions,
and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings shall be
determined, shall be those prescribed in this Act.
Sec. 3060. Sec. 38. The only pleadings on the part of the
plaintifff shall be the complaint, or demurrer to the defendant's
answer ; and the only pleadings on the part of the defendant
shall be the demurrer, or the answer. The demurrer or answer
of the defendant, and the demurrer of the plaintifff, shall be
filed with the Clerk, and a copy served on the adverse party or
his attorney.
State v. Yellow Jacket S. M. Co., 14 Nev. 220.
Sec. 3061. Sec 39. The complaint shall contain : First—The title of the action, specifying the name of the court and the
name of the county in which the action is brought, and the
names of the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.
Second —A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language. Third—A demand
of the relief which the plaintifff claims. If the recovery of
money or damages be demanded, the amount thereof shall bo
stated.
Sec. 3062. Seo. 40. The defendant may demur to the com
pliant within the time required in the summons to answer,
when it appears upon the face thereof, either : First, that the
court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the
subject of the action ; or, second, that the plaintifff has not legal
capacity to sue ; or, third, that there is another action pending
between the same parties for the saute cause ; or, fourth, there
is a defect or misjoinder of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or,
fifth, that several causes of action have been improperly united ;
or, sixth, that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action ; or, seventh , that the complaint
is ambiguous, unintelligible, or uncertain.
Eastorbrook v. (T'>ioii, 1 Nov. .'5!W; Levy v. Fargo, 1 Nov. 415;
Gallagher v. D'nilap, 2 Nev. 3:iG; Mandelbauin v. Uus<ell and
Crow. 4 Nov. 551 Tinknnt v. O'Neale. 5 Nov. ill); Proprietors of
Mexican mill v. Yellow Jacket S. M. Co.. 4 Nev. 40: McBeth v.
Van Sickle, ti Nov. 134 ; Wood v. Olnev. 7 Nev. 709; Treadwav v.
Wilder, 8 Nov. 91; Winter v. Winter! S Nev. 129; State v. Yel
low Jacket S. M. Co., 14 Nev. 220; Lonkev & Smith v. Well.".
Sec. 10 Nev. 271.
Sec. 3063. Sec. 41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the
grounds upon which any of the objections to the complaint are
taken. Unless it do so it may be disregarded.
Sec. 3064. Sec. 42. The defendant may demur to the whole
complaint, or to one or more of several causes of action stated
therein, and answer the residue ; or may demur and answer at
the same time.
Sec. 3065- Sec. 43. If the complaint be amended, a copy of
the amendment shall be filed, or the court may in its discretion,
require the complaint as amended to be filed, and a copy of
the amendment shall be served upon every defendant to be
affected thereby, or upon his attorney, if he has appeared by
attorney. The defendant shall answer in such time as may be
ordered by the court, and judgment by default may be entered
upon failure to answer, as in other cases.
Sec. 3066. Sec 44. When any of the matters enumerated in section forty do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the
objection may be taken by answer.
Sec. 3067. Sec. 45. If no such objection is taken, either by
demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have
waived the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdic
tion of the court, and the objection that the complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Sec. 3069- Sec. 47. The counterclaim mentioned in the last
Bection shall be one existing in favor of the defendant and
against a plaintifff, between whom a several judgment might be
had in the action, and arising out of one of the following causes
of action : First—A cause of action arising out of the trans
action set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the
plaintifff's claim, or connected with the subject of the action.
Second —In an action arising upon contract, any other cause of
action arising also upon contract and existing at the commence
ment of the action.
Foulks v. Rhodes, 12 Nov. 225: Davis v. Xoteware, 13 Xev. 421.
Sec. 3070- Sec. 48. Whon cross demands have existed between
persons under such circumstances that if one had brought an
action against the other a counterclaim could have been set up,
neither shall be deprived of the benefit thereof by the assign
ment or death of the other, but the two demands be deemed
compensation, so far as they equal each other.
Sec. 3071. Sec. 49. The defendant may set forth by answer as
many defenses and counterclaims as he may have. They shall
each be separately stated, and the several defenses shall refer
to the causes of action which they are intended to answer in a
manner in which they may be intelligibly distinguished.
Sec. 3072. Sec 50. The plaintifff may, within the number of
days in which the defendant is by the summons required to
answer, said days to be computed from the time of the service
on the plaintifff of a copy of such answer, demur to the same
for insufficiency, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof ;
and he may also, within the same time, demur to one or more
of the defenses set up in the answer. Sham and irrelevant
answers and defenses, and so much of any answer as may be
irrelevant, redundant, or immaterial may be stricken out on
motion, and upon such terms as the court, in its discretion, may
impose.
Sec. 3073. Sec. 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the
party or his attorney, and when the complaint is verified by
affidavit the answer shall be verified also, except as provided in
the next section.
Sec. 3074. Sec. 52. The verification of the answer required in
the last section may be omitted when an admission of the truth
of the complaint might subject the party to prosecution for
felony.
Sec. 3075. Sec. 53. When an action is brought upon a writ
ten instrument, and the complaint contains a copy of such
instrument, or a copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness and
due execution of such instrument shall be deemed admitted,
unless the answrer denying the same be verified.
Sec. 3076. Sec. 54. When the defense to an action is founded
upon a written instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in
the answer, or a copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness and
due execution of such instrument shall be deemed admitted,
unless the plaintifff file with the Clerk, five days after the service
of the answer, an affidavit denying the same.
Sec. 3077. Sec. 55. In all eases of the verification of a plead
ing, the affidavit of the party shall state that the same is true of
his own knowledge, except as to the matters which are therein
stated on his information or belief, and as to those matters, that
he believes it to be true. And where a pleading is verified, it
shall be by the affidavit of the party, unless he be absent from
the county where the attorneys reside, or from some cause
unable to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of his
attorney or other person verifying the same. When the plead
ing is verified by the attorney, or any other person except the
party, he shall set forth in the affidavit the reasons why it is
not made by the party. When a corporation is a party, the ver
ification may be made by any officer thereof ; or when the state,
or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a party, the verification
may be made by any person acquainted with the facts ; except
that in actions prosecuted by the Attorney-Generul, in behalf of
the state, the pleadings need not, in any case, be verified.
Heintzelman v. L'Amoroux. 3 Xev. 377 ; Kelly v. Kelly, 1* Xev. 40.
Sec. 3078. Sec 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to
set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged,
but he shall deliver to the adverse party within five days after
a demand thereof, in writing, a copy of the account, or be pre
cluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or a Judge
thereof, may order a further account when the one delivered is
too general, or is defective in any particular.
Sec. 3079. Sec. 57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be in
serted in a pleading, it may be stricken out by the court, on
motion of any person aggrieved thereby.
Sec. 3080- Sec. 58. In an action for the recovery of real
property, such property -shall be described, with its metes and
bounds, in the complaint, or with other equal certainty.
Sec. 3081. Sec. 59. In pleading a judgment or other deter
mination of a court, or officer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not
be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such
given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial the facts con
ferring jurisdiction.
Sec. 3082. Sec. CO. In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts showing such performance, but it may be stated
generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on
his part ; and if such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading shall establish on the trial the facts showing such
performance.
Sec. 3083- Sec. 61. In pleading a private statute, or a right
derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute
by its title and the day of its passage, and the court shall there
upon take judicial notice thereof.
Sec. 3084. Sec. 62. In an action for libel or slander, it shall
not be necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts
for the purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff of
the defamatory matter out of which the action arose ; but it
shall be sufficient to state generally that the same was published
or spoken concerning the plaintifff ; and if such allegation be
controverted, the plaintifff shall establish on the trial that it was
so published or spoken.
Sec. 3085. Sec. 03. In the actions mentioned in the last secHon, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of
the matter charged as def amatory, and any mitigating circum
stances to reduce the amount of the damages ; and, whether he
prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the miti
gating circumstances.
Thompson v. Powning, 15 Xev. 105.
Sec. 3086. Sec. 64. The plaintifff may unite several causes of
action in the same complaint, when they all arise out of : First,
contracts, express or implied ; or, second, claims, to recover
specific real property, with or without damages for the with
holding thereof, or for waste committed thereon, and the rents
and profits of the same ; or, third, claims to recover specific
personal property, with or without damages for the withholding
thereof ; or, fourth, claims against a trustee, by virtue of a con
tract, or by operation of law ; or, fifth, injuries to character ;
or, sixth, injuries to person ; or, seventh, injuries to property.
But the causes of action so united shall all belong to only one
of these classes, and shall affect all the parties to the action, and
not require different places of trial, and shall be separately
stated ; provided, however, that an action for malicious arrest
and prosecution, or either of them, may be united with an action
for either injury to character or to the person.
State v. Yellow Jacket S. M. Co., 14 Nev. 220 ; Rahlin,' v. Hackett,
1 Nov.
Sec. 3087. Sec. 65. Every material allegation of the complaint,
when it is verified, not specifically controverted by the
answer, shall for the purpose of the action be taken as true.
The allegation of new matter in the answer shall on the trial be
deemed controverted by the adverse party.
Sec. 3088. Sec. (56. A material allegation in a pleading is one
essential to the claim, or defense, and which could not be
stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient.
Sec. 3089. Seo. G7. After demurrer and before the trial of
issue on demurrer, either party may, within ten days, amend any
pleading demurred to of course, and without costs, tiling the
same as amended, und serving a copy thereof upon the adverse
party or his attorney, who shall have ten days to answer or
demur thereto if the pleading be n complaint, or to demur
thereto if it be an answer ; but a party shall not so amend more
than once. When a demurrer to a complaint is overruled, and
there is no answer filed, the court may, upon such terms as
shall be just, and upon payment of costs, allow the defendant
to file an answer. If u demurrer to the answer be overruled,
the facts alleged in the answer shall still be construed as denied.
Tneker v. Mayor, etc. of Virginia City, 4 Nov. 20; Carlyon v. Lannan,
4 New 15li; Tollman v. Purdy. 5 Nev. 23S; Carson Kiver
Lumbering (,'o. v. Rassett, 2 Nev. 21!) ; Keller v. Klasdel, 2 Nev.
Sec. 162; Cal. State Telegraph Co. v. Patterson, 1 Nev. 150.
Sec. 3090. Sec. (!8. The court maw in furtherance of justice,
and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or
proceedings by adding or striking out the name of any party, or
by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in
any other respect, and may upon like terms enlarge the time for
an answer or demurrer, or demurrer to an answer filed. The
court may likewise, upon affidavit showing good cause therefore,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon such terms as may
be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars, and may upon like terms allow an answer to be
made after the time limited by this Act ; and may, upon such
terms as may be just, and upon payment of costs, relieve a party
or his legal representatives from a judgment, order, or other
proceeding taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect ; and when, from any cause, the
summons, and a copy of the complaint in an action, have not
been personally served on the defendant, the court may allow,
on such terms as may be just, such defendant or his legal rep
resentatives, at any time within six months after the rendition
of any judgment in such action, to answer to the merits of the
original action.
Howe v. ( 'oldren. 4 Nev. 171 ; Quillen v. Arnold. 12 Nev. 2.TI ; MeCausland
v. KaNton, 12 Nev. 1!>.">; Jones v. S. F. Sulphur Co., 14
Nev. 172; State ex rel. Nevada Orphan Asvlum v. Hallook.
Sec. 10 Nev. 373.
Sec. 3091. Sec. G9. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the
name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in
any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true
Sec. 3092. Sec. 70. In the construction of a pleading for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the
parties.
Ferguson v. Virginia and Truckec R. R. Co., 13 Xev. 184.
Sec. 3093. Sec. 71. The court shall, in every stage of an
action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings,
which shall not affect the substantial rights of the
parties ; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by rea
son of such error or defect.
McManus v. The Ophir Co., 4 Ncv. 15; Hawthorne v. Smith, 3
Nev. 182.
TITLE V.
O f the provisional remedies in civil actions.
CHAPTER 1.— Arrest and bail.
Sec. 3094. Sec. 72. No person shall be arrested in a civil
action except as prescribed by this Act.
Ex parte Bergman, 18 Nev. 331.
Sec. 3095. Sec. 73. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter
prescribed, in the following cases arising after the pass-m
age of this Act : First—In an action for the recovery of money
or damages on a cause of action arising upon contract, express
or implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the state
with intent to defraud his creditors, or when the action is for
libel or slander. Second—In an action for a fine or penalty,
or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied
or converted to his own use by a public officer, or an officer of
a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in
the course of his employment as such, or by any other person
in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in office, or
in professional employment, or for a willful violation of duty.
Third —In an action to recover the possession of personal prop
erty unjustly detained, when the property, or any part thereof,
has been concealed, removed, or disposed of. so that it cannot be
found or taken by the Sheriff. Fourth — When the defendant
has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt or incurring
the obligation for which the action is brought, or in concealing
or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention, or con
version of which the action is brought. Fifth— When the
defendant has removed or disposed of his property, or is about
to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
Sec. 3096. Sec. 74. An order for the arrest of the defendant
shall be obtained from a Judge of the court in which the action
is brought.
Sec. 3097. Sec. 75. The order may be made whenever it shall
appear to the Judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff or some
other person, that a sufficient cause of action exists, and the
case is one of those mentioned in section seventy-three. The
affidavit shall be either positive or upon information and belief ;
and when upon information and belief, it shall state the facts
upon which the information and belief are founded. If an order
of arrest be made, the affidavit shall be filed with the Clerk of
the court.
Sec. 3098. Sec. 76. Before making the order the Judge shall
require a written undertak ing, payable in gold coin of the
United States, on the part of the plaintifff, with sureties, to the
effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will
pay all costs and charges that may be awarded to the defend
ant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking,
which shall be at least five hundred dollars. Each of the sure
ties shall annex to the undertaking an affidavit that he is a
resident and householder or freeholder within the state, and
worth double the sum specified in the undertaking 'over and
above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt
from execution. The undertaking shall be filed with the Clerk
of the court.
Sec. 3099. Sec. 77. The order may be made to accompany the
summons, or any time afterwards before judgment. It shall
require the Sheriff of the county where the defendant may be
found forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a speci
fied sum, naming the money or currency in which it is payable,
and to return the order at a time therein mentioned to the
Clerk of the court in which the action is pending.
Sec. 3100- Sec. 78. The order of arrest, with a copy of the
affidavit upon which it is made, shall be delivered to the Sheriff,
who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him the
copy of the affidavit, and also, if desired, a copy of the order
of arrest.
Sec. 3101. Sec. 70. The Sheriff shall execute' the order by
arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody until dis
charged by law.
Sec. 3102. Sec. 80. The defendant, at any time before execu
tion, shall be discharged from the arrest either upon giving
bail or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the order of
arrest in the money or currency therein named, as provided in
this chapter.
Sec. 3103. Sec. 81. The defendant may give bail by causing a
written undertaking, payable in the money of the contract (if
any be named), and in other cases as directed by the Judge, to
be executed by two or more sufficient sureties, stating their
places of residence and occupations, to the effect that they are
bound in the amount mentioned in the order of arrest ; that the
defendant shall at nil times render himself amenable to the nroSec. 3104. Sec. 82. At any time before judgment, or within
ten days thereafter, the bail may surrender the defendant in their
exoneration ; or he may surrender himself to the Sheriff of thej
county where he was arrested.
Sec. 3103. Sec. 83. For the purpose of surrendering- the defendant,
the bail at any time or place before they are finally
charged, may themselves arrest him ; or by a written authority,
indorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower
the Sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest of the defendant by thej
Sheriff, or upon his delivery to the Sheriff by the bail, or upon his
own surrender, the bail shall be exonerated ; provided, such
arrest, delivery, or surrender shall take place before the expiration
of ten days after judgment ; but if such arrest, delivery, or sur
render be not made within ten days after judgment, the bail
shall be finally charged on their undertaking, and be bound to
pay the amount of the judgment within ten days thereafter.
Sec. 3106. Sec. 84. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the
judgment within ten days after they are finally charged, an
action may be commenced against such bail for the amount of
such original judgment.
Sec. 3107. Sec. 85. The bail shall also be exonerated by the
death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state prison,
or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the process.

Sec. 3108. Sec. 80. Within the time limited for that purpose,
the Sheriff shall file the order of arrest in the office of the Clerk
of the court in which the action is pending, with his return
indorsed thereon, together with a copy of the undertaking of
the bail. The original undertaking he shall retain in his pos
session until filed, as herein provided. The plaintifff, within
ten days thereafter, may serve upon the Sheriff a notice that he'
does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted
them, and the Sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. If no
notice be served within ten days, the original undertaking shall
be filed with the Clerk of the court.
Sec. 31 09. Sec 87. Within five days after the receipt of
notice, the Sheriff or defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his
attorney, notice of the justification of the same, or other bail
(specifying the places of residence and occupations of the latter),
before the Judge of the court, or Clerk, at a specified time and
place ; the time to be not less than five nor more than ten days
thereafter, except by consent of parties. In case other bail be
given, there shall be a new undertaking.
Sec. 3110- Sec. 88. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows
: First—Each of them shall be a reside^* chapter, over and above all Lis debts and liabilities, exclusive of
property exempt from execution ; but the Judge, or Clerk, on
justification, may allow more than two sureties to justify sev
erally in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the
whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.
Sec. 3111- Sec. 89. For the purpose of justification, each of
the bail shall attend before the Judge, or Clerk, at the time and
place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath,
on the part of the plaintifff, touching his sufficiency, in such
manner as the Judge, or Clerk, in his discretion may think
proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing, and sub
scribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.
Sec. 3112. Sec. 90. If the Judge, or Clerk, find the bail suffi
cient, he shall annex the examination to the undertaking,
indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed, and
the Sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.
Sec. 3113. Sec. 91. The defendant mny, at the time of his
arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit with the Sheriff the
amount mentioned in the order. In case the amount of the
bail be reduced, as provided in this chapter, the defendant may
deposit such amount instead of giving bail. In either case the
Sheriff shall give the defendant a certificate of the deposit made,
and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.
Sec. 3114. Sec. 92. The Sheriff shall, immediately after the
deposit, pay the same into court, and take from the Clerk re
ceiving the same two certificates of such payment ; the one of
which he shall deliver or transmit to the plaintifff, or his attor
ney, and the other to the defendant. For any default in mak
ing such payment, the same proceedings may be had on the
official bond of the Sheriff to collect the sum deposited as in
other cases of delinquency.
Sec. 3115. Sec. 93. If money be deposited, as provided in the
last two sections, bail may be given and may justify upon
notice at any time before judgment ; and on the filing of the
undertaking and justification with the Clerk, the money de
posited shall be refunded by such Clerk to the defendant.
Sec. 3116. Sec. 91. Where money shall have been deposited,
if it remain on deposit at the time of a recovery of a judgment
in favor of the plaintifff, the Clerk shall, under the direction of
the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after
satisfying the judgment shall refund the surplus, if any, to the
defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the
Clerk shall, under like direction of the court, refund to him the
whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.
Sec. 3117. Sec 95. If, after being arrested, the defendant
escape or be rescued, the Sheriff shall himself be liable as bail ;
but he may discharge himself from such liability by the giving
and justification of bail at any time before judgment.
Sec. 3118. Sec 9G. If a judgment be recovered against the
Sheriff, upon his liabilitv as bail, and an execution thereon be
may be had on his official bond for the recovery of the whole or
any deficiency, us in other cases of delinquency.
Sec. 3119. Sec 97. A defendant arrested may, at any time
before the justification of bail, apply to the Judge who made°
the order, or the court in which the action is pending, upon
reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to vacate the order of arrest,
or to reduce the amount of bail. If the application be made
upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise,
the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs
in addition to those on which the order of arrest was made.
Sec. 3120- Sec. 98. If, upon such application, it shall satisfactorily
appear that there was not sufficient cause for the arrest,
the order shall be vacated, or if it satisfactorily appear that the
bail was fixed too high, the amount shall be reduced.
CHAPTER 2. —Claims and delivery of personal property.
Sec. 3121. Sec. 99. The plaintifff in an action to recover the
possession of personal property may, at the time of issuing the
summons, or at any time before answer, claim the delivery of
such property to him as provided in this chapter.
.Sections 09 to 102, intlusivo. are made applicable to justices'
courts by section 527 of this Act.
Alfortl v. Hradeen, 1 Xev. 22S ; O'Meara v. North American Min
ing C )., 2 Xev. Ill'; l'erkins v. llarnes. ;i Xev. 557; Carlyon
v. Lannan, 4 Xev. 156; Whitman Mining Co. v. Tritle, 4 Xev.
4!)4: Hilger v. Edwards, 5 Xev. 85; Hollins v. Stront, 0 Xev.
I5u; I'Yusier v. l^anmion, 13 Nov. 209; (.'arson v. Applegarth, (J
Xev. 187.
Sec. 3122. Sec. 100. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit
shall be made by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf,
showing : First —That the plaintifff is the owner of the prop
erty claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled
to the possession thereof. Second —That the property is wrong
fully detained by the defendant. Third —The alleged cause of
the detention thereof according to his best knowledge, informa
tion, and belief. Fourth —That the same has not been taken
for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized
under an execution or an attachment against the property of
the plaintifff, or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from
such seizure ; and, Fifth—The actual value of the property.
Sec. 3123. Sec 101. The plaintifff or his attorney may thereupon,
by indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the
Sheriff of the county where the property claimed may be, to
take the same from the defendant.
Sec. 3124. Sec. 102. Upon a receipt of the affidavit and notice,
with a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient0
sureties, approved by the Sheriff, to the effect that they are
bound to the defendant in double the value of the property, in
gold coin of the United States, us stated in the affidavit for the
prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the
defendants, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment
to him of such sum as may from any cause be recovered against
the plaintifff, in gold coin of the United States, the Sheriff shall
forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it be in
the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his
custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant
a copy of the affidavit, notice, and undertaking, by delivering
the same to him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent,
from whose possession the property is taken ; or, if neither can
be found, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either,
with some person of suitable age and discretion ; or if neither
have any known place of abode, by putting them in the nearest
postoffice, directed to the defendant.
Sec. 31 23. Sfx. 103. The defendant may, within two days
after the service of a copy of the affidavit and the undertaking,
give notice to the Sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of
the sureties. If he fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have
waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the
sureties shull justify on notice in like manner as upon bail on
arrest ; and the Sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of
the sureties until the objection to them is either waived, as
above provided, or until they justify. If the defendant except
to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as provided in
the next section.
Sec. 3126. Sec. 104. At anytime before the delivery of the
property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except
to the sureties of the plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon
giving to the Sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or
more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, in gold coin of the United
States, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery
thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for
payment to him of such sum, in gold coin of the United States,
as may for any cause be recovered against the defendant. If a
return of the property be not so required within five days after
the taking and serving of notice to the defendant, it shall be
deliverd to the plaintifff, except as provided in section one hun
dred and nine.
[section 104 iiinl section* 107 to 110, both inclusive, are made appli
cable to justices' courts by section .")L'7 of this Act.
Sec. 3127. Sec. 105. The defendant's sureties, upon notice to
the plaintifff of not less than two or more than five days, shall
justify before the Judge or the Clerk in the same manner as upon
bail on arrest ; and, upon such justification, the Sheriff shall
deliver the property to the defendant. Th» Sheriff shall be
justification shall be such us are prescribed by this Act in respect
to bail upon an order of arrest.
Sec. 3129. Sec. 107. If the- property, or any part thereof, be
concealed in u building or enclosure, the Sheriff shall publicly
demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause the
"building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the property
into his possession, and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the
power of his county.
Sec. 3130. Sec. 108. When the Sheriff shall have taken property,
as in this chapter provided, he shall Keep it in a secure
place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto upon receiving
his lawful fees for taking and necessary expenses for keeping
the same.
Sec. 3131. Sec. 109. If the property taken be claimed by any
other person than the defendant or his agent, and such person
make affidavit of his title thereto, or right to possession thereof,
stating the grounds of such title or right, and serve the same
upon the Sheriff, the Sheriff shall not be bound to keep thej
property or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on
demand of him or his agent, indemnify the Sheriff against such
claim by an undertaking, made payable in gold coin of the
United States, by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their
affidavits that they are each worth double the value of the
property, as specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over and
above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt
from execution, and are freeholders or householders in the
county ; and no claim to such property by any other person
than the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the Sheriff
unless so made.
Sec. 3132. Seo. 110. The Sheriff shall file the notice, undertaking,
and affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the
Clerk of the court in which the action is pending, within twenty
days after taking the property mentioned therein.
CHAPTER 3.—Injunction.
Sec. 3133. Sec. 111. An injunction is a writ or order requiring
a person to refrain from a particular act. The order or writ
may be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or
by a Judge thereof, and when made by a Judge may be enforced
as the order of the court.
Cliani]iion v. St*«i<m*, '_' NY v. 271 : llawlliorne an-1 AYife v. Smith,
'.> NYv. ls_': SI u'!*i mm v. Chirk, 1 NYv. \->^\ L-i'lv Ilryan (i. -v. S.
M. Co. v. La'lv Bryan -Min. < o., 1 NYv. ill; Opliir Co. v. Carpen
ter, 4 NYv. 5!t; Welder v. VUU, ■> New 1 i « » Covington v.
Be -k«T, ■'< New 2M; Peek v. linnvn, ."> New 81; Maynanl v.
Bailey, ■> Nev. Conley v. Clie.lii-, (i NYv. itl\ Iluhart V.
Ford, li NYv. 77; Jlamer v. Kane, 7 Nev. >>1 ; l'erley v. l-'orinaii,
7 New ,'in:i; Wells, l'ai/n iv. Co, v. Dayton, 11 Nev. Kil.
Sec. 3134. Sec. 112. An iniunction mav be "ranted in the
relief or any part thereof consists in restraining the commis
sion or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited
period or perpetually. Second—When it shall appear by the
complaint or affidavit that the commission or continuance of
some act, during' the litigation, would produce great or irre
parable injury to the plaintifff. Third —When it shall appear,
during the litigation, that the defendant is doing or threatens,
or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some
act in violation of the plaintifff's rights respecting the subject of
the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual,
Sec. 3135. Sec. 113. The injunction may be granted at the
time ot issuing the summons upon the complaint, and at any
time afterwards, before judgment, upon affidavits or other evi
dence. The complaint in the one case, and the affidavits or other
evidence in the other, shall show satisfactorily that sufficient
grounds exist therefore. !No injunction shall be granted on the
complaint unless it be verified by the oath of the plaintifff, or
some one in his behalf, that he, the person making the oath, has
read the complaint, or heard the complaint road, and knows the
contents thereof, and the same is true of his own knowledge,
except the matters therein stated on information and belief, and
that as to those matters he believes it to be true. When
granted on the complaint, a copy of the complaint and verifica
tion attached shall be served with the injunction ; when granted
upon affidavit, without notice, a copy of the affidavit shall be
served with the injunction.
Sierra Nevada S. M. Co. v. Sears, 10 Nov. 340.
Sec. 3136. Sec. 114. An injunction shall not be allowed after
the defendant has answered, unless upon notice, or upon an
order made as provided in section one hundred and sixteen, but
in such case the defendant may be restrained until the decision
of the court or Judge granting or refusing the injunction.
Sec. 3137. Sec 115. On granting an injunction or a restrain
ing order, the court or Judge shall require, except where the
state is a party plaintifff, a written undertaking, with sufficient
sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay to the party
enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified,
as such party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the
court finally decide that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto.
Rosendorf v. Mandel, 18 Xev. 12!).
Sec. 3138. Sec. 11G. If the court or Judge deem it proper that
the defendant, or any of several defendants, should be heard,
before granting the injunction, an order shall be made fixing a
time and ldase for hearinc the amplication for the injunction, a
shall not be granted without due iiotice of the application there
for, to be served in the manner prescribed for service of the
summons in the action.
Sec. 31 -40. Sec. 118. If an injunction be granted without notice,
the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon
reasonable notice, to the Jjidge who granted the injunction, or
to the court in which the action is pending, or a Judge thereof,
to dissolve or modify the same. The application may be made
upon the complaint and the affidavit or affidavits on which the
injunction was granted, if any were used, or upon affidavits or
other testimony on the part of the defendant, with or without
the answer. If the application be made upon affidavit, or other
evidence, on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise the plain
tiff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence in addi
tion to the affidavits on which the injunction was granted, and
the defendant may then, in proper cases, introduce rebutting
affidavits or other evidence ; prodded, that for the purpose of
allowing the plaintifff to introduce further evidence, the answer
or verification thereto attached shall be deemed an affidavit.
Sec. 3141 Sec. 119. The supreme court may prescribe by rule
the time when and the cases in which the service of affidavits
to be used upon applications for injunctions, and motions to
dissolve injunctions, shall be made ; and may also provide by
rule for the giving of notice before such hearings of the kind of
testimony to be used, and make all needful rules on the subject
of injunctions not in conflict with this or other Acts.
Sec. 3142. Sec 120. If, upon the hearing of an application
for an injunction, or for the dissolution of an injunction, it does r
not satisfactorily appear that there is a sufficient cause for an
injunction, or if it appear that the extent of the injunction is
too great, it shall be refused, dissolved, or modified, as the case
may be, and upon all such applications in actions respecting
mines, the court or Judge hearing the same may, instead of
granting or continuing the injunction, make an order requiring
the party against whom the application is made to give a bond
in an amount fixed by such court or Judge, with sufficient sure
ties, to be approved by such court or Judge, conditioned for the
payment to the plaintifff of all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the use or occupation of the mine, or other acts
complained of, by the party giving the bond, his or its agents,
servants, employes, grantees, or other persons by his or its con
sent pending the litigation, if the plaintifff finally recover ; or
that upon failure to give such bond within the time prescribed
in the order, the injunction shall be granted, or continued, as
the case may be ; or the court or Judge may apppint a receiver
to take charge of the mine, or the proceeds thereof, pending the
litigation.
Sec. 3143. Sec. 121. It shall be good cause, in the discretion D
of the court or Judge, for the dissolution of an injunction that
the plaintifff is doing, or causing, or permitting to be done, some
act pending the litigation which, if continued, will be injurious
to the defendant if he finally recover, or to the property in dis
pute. But the court or Judge hearing a motion to dissolve an
injunction may, instead of granting such motion, direct by
order that the plaintifff give to the parties restrained a bond
conditioned, as provided in section one hundred and twenty, or
upon his failure to do so within the time prescribed in such
order, that the injunction shall be dissolved.
Sec. 3144. Sec. 122. All undertakings and bonds provided
for in this chapter shall be made payable in gold coin of the
United States.
CHAPTER 4.— Attachment.
Sec. 3143. Sec. 123. Tho plaintifff, at the time of issuing the
summons, or at airy time afterwards, may have the property of
the defendant attached, as security for the satisfaction of any
judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant give
security to pay such judgment, as hereinafter provided in the
following cases : First—In an action upon a contract for the
direct payment of money, made, or by the terms thereof, pay
able in this state, which is not secured by mortgage, lien, or
pledge upon real or personal property situated or being in this
state, if so secured, when such security has been rendered
nugatory by the act of the defendant.- Second — In an action
upon a contract against a defendant not residing in this state.


Mendcs v. Freiters, 10 Xev. .'SS.S; Sadler v. Tatti, 17 New 42!l.
Sec. 3146. Sec. 124. The Clerk of the court shall issue the
writ of attachment upon receiving an affidavit by or on behalf
of the plaintifff, which shall be filed, showing : First —That the
defendant is indebted to the plaintifff (specifying the amount of
such indebtedness over and above all legal set-offs or counter
claims) upon a contract for tho direct payment of money, and
that such contract was made, or is, by the terms thereof, pay
able in this state, and that the payment of the same has not been
secured by any mortgage, lien or pledge upon real or personal
property situate or being in this state, or, if so secured, that
said security has been rendered nugatory by the act of the de
fendant ; or, Second —That the defendant is indebted to the
plaintifff (specifying the amount of such indebtedness as near as
may be over and above all legal set-oil's or counterclaims), and
that the defendant is a non-resident of the state. Third — That
the sum for which tho attachment is asl.ed is an actual bona tide
existing debt. 'due and mvim> from the defendant to the plaintSec. 3147. Sec. 125. Before issuing the writ the Clerk shall
require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, in a
sum not less than two hundred dollars, not exceeding the
amount claimed by the plaintifff, in gold coin of the United
States, with sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant
recover judgment the plaintifff will pay, in gold coin of the
United States, all costs that may be awarded to the defendant,
and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attach
ment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.
Quill, n v. Quitiloy, 14 Nov. 21"); Liuhtle v. Dentin?, 15 Nov. SS9:
Murrai v. Swift", lo Nov. -L">.
Sec. 3148. Sec. 12(5. The writ shall be directed to the Sheriff
of any county in which property of such defendant may be,
and require him to attach and safely keep all the property of
snch defendant within his county not exempt from execution,
or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's
demand, the amount of which shall be stated in conformity
with the complaint, unless the defendant give him security byj
the undertaking, of at least two sufficient sureties, in an amount
sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs, in the money or
currency of the contract, in which case to take such undertak
ing!" Several writs may be issued at the same time to the
Sheriffs of different counties.
Lavragn v. Wise, 13 NVv. 290.
Sec. 31 49. Sec. 127. The rights or shares which the defendant
may have in the stock of any corporation or company, together
with the interest and profits therein, and all debts due such
defendant, and all other property in this state of such defendant
not exempt from execution, may be attached, and if judgment
be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.
Sec. 3150. Sec 128. The Sheriff to whom the writ is directed
and delivered shall execute the same without delay, and if the
undertaking mentioned in section one hundred and twenty-six
be not given, as follows : First—Heal property shall be
attached by leaving a copy of the writ with the occupant thereof ;
or, if there be no occupant, by posting a copy in a conspicuous
place thereon, and filing a copy, together with a description of
the property attached, with the Recorder of the county. Sec
ond—Personal property capable of manual delivery shall be
attached by taking it into custody. Third —Stock or shares, or
interest in stock or shares, of any corporation or company, shall
be attached by leaving with the President, or other head of the
same, or the Secretary, Cashier, or managing agent thereof, a
copy of the writ, and a notice stating the stock or interest of the
defendant is attached in pursuance of such writ. Fourth—
Debts and credits, and other personal property, not capable of
manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person
owing such debts, or having in his possession, or under his
control, such credits or other personal property, a copy of the
writ, and a notice that the debts owing by him to the defendant,
or the credits and other personal property in his possession or
under his control, belonging to the defendant, are attached in
pursuance of such writ.
Sec. 3151. Sec. 129. Upon receiving information in writing
from the plaintifff or his attorney, that any person has in his
possession, or under his control, any credits or other personal
property belonging to the defendant, or is owing any debt to
defendant, the Sheriff shall serve upon such person a copy of
the writ, and a notice that such credits or other property or
debts, as the case may be, are attached in pursuance of such
writ.
Sec. 3152. Sec. 130. All persons having in their possession,
or under their control, any credits or other personal property
belonging to the defendant, or owing any debts to the defend
ant at the time of service upon them of a copy of the writ and
notice, as provided in the last two sections, shall be, unless
such property is delivered up or transferred, or such debts be
paid to the Sheriff, liable to the plaintifff for the amount of such
credits, property, or debts, until the attachment be discharged
or any judgment recovered by him be satisfied.
Sec. 3153. Sec. 131. Any person owing debts to the defend
ant or having in his possession or under his control any creTTits
or other personal property belonging to the defendant, may be
required to attend before the court, or Judge, or a referee
appointed by the court or Judge, and be examined on oath
respecting the same. The defendant may also be required to
attend for the purpose of giving information respecting his
property, and may be examined on oath. The court or Judge
may, after such examination, order personal property capable
of manual delivery to be delivered to the Sheriff on such terms
ns may be just, having reference to any liens thereon or claims
against the same, and a memorandum to be given of all other
personal property, containing the amount and description
thereof.
Bivins v. Harris, 8 Xev. 153; Birohfield v. Harris, 0 Xev. 382.
Sec. 3154. Sec. 132. The Sheriff shall make a full inventory
of the property attached, and return the same with the writ.
To enable him to make such returns as to debts and credits
attached, he shall request at the time of service the party owing
the debt, or having the credit, to give him a memorandum
stating the amount and description of each ; and if such memo
randum be refused, he shall. return the fact of refusal with the
writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum may be
required to pay the costs of any proceeding taken for the pur
pose of obtaining information respecting the amount and
description of such debt or credit.
Sec. 3155- Sec. 133. If any of the property attached be per
ishable, the Sheriff shall sell the same in the manner in which
such property is sold on execution. The proceeds and other
property attached by him shall be retained by him to answer
any judgment that may be recovered in the action, unless
sooner subject to execution upon another judgment recovered
previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits
attached may be collected by him, if the same can be done with
out suit. The Sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge
for the amount paid.
Newman v. Kniic, !) Nov. 234.
Sec. 3156. Sec. 134. If any personal property attached be
claimed by :i third person as his property, the Sheriff may summon
a jury of six men to try the validity of such claim ; and
such proceedings shall be had thereon, with the like effect, as
in case of a claim after levy upon execution.
Sec. 31 57. Sec. 135. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff,
the Sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the property attached
by him which has not been delivered to the defendant or a
claimant, as hereinafter provided, or subjected to execution on
another judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the
attachment, if it be sufficient for that purpose : First, by pay
ing to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable prop
erty sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or
so much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment ; second,
if any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been
issued on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution so
much of the property, real or personal, as may be necessary to
satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his
hands. Notice of the sales shall be given, and the sales con-N
ducted as in other cases of sales on execution.
Sec. 3158. Sec. 13G. If, after selling all the property attached
by him remaining in his hands, and applying the proceeds,
together with the proceeds of any debts or credits collected by
him, deducting the fees, to the payment of the judgment, any
balance shall remain due, the Sheriff shall proceed to collect such
balance as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the
judgment shall have been paid, the Sheriff, upon reasonable
demand, shall deliver over to the defendant the attached prop
erty remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the property
attached unapplied on the judgment.
Sec. 3139. Sec 137. If the execution be returned unsatisfied,
in whole or in part, the plaintifff may prosecute any undertaking
given pursuant to section one hundred and twenty-six, or section
one hundred and forty, or he may proceed as in other cases
upon the return of an execution.
Sec. 3160- Sec. 138. If the defendant recover judgment
against the plaintifff, any undertaking received in the action,
all the proceeds of sales and money collected by the Sheriff, and
all the property attached remaining in the Sheriff's hands, shall
be delivered to the defendant or his agent ; the order of attach
ment shall be discharged and the property released therefrom.
Sec. 3161. Sec. 139. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared
in the action, he may apply, upon reasonable notice to
the plaintifff, to the court in which the action is pending, or to
the Judge thereof, for an order to discharge tlie attachment,
wholly or in part, upon the execution and filing; of the under
taking mentioned in the next section. Such order may be
granted directing the release from the operation of the attach
ment, upon the tiling of such undertaking and the justification
of the sureties thereon, if required by the plaintifff, of all or
any part of the property, money, debts, or credits attached, as
the case may be. All the proceeds of sales and monies col
lected by the Sheriff, and all the property attached remaining
in his hands, so released, shall be delivered or paid to the
defendant upon the filing of such undertaking and makiug such
justification, if required by the plaintifff.
Sec. 3162. Skc. 140. On granting such order, the court or the
jU(jge gh^n require an undertaking on behalf of the defendant,
with at least two sureties, residents and freeholders, or house
holders, in the county, which shall be filed to the effect, in case
the value of the property or the amount of money, debts, or
credits sought to be released shall equal or exceed the amount
claimed by the plaintifff in the complaint, that the defendant
will pay to the plaintifff the amount of the judgment which may
be recovered in favor of the plaintifff in the action, not exceed
ing the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least
double the amount so claimed by the plaintifff, and in the money
or currency of the contract ; or to the effect, in case the value
of the property or the amount of money, debts, or credits
sought to be released shall be less than the amount so claimed
by the plaintifff, that the defendant will pay the amount of such
judgment, to the extent of the value of the property, or amount
of money, debts, or credits sought to be released, not exceed
ing the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at
least double the amount of such property, money, debts, or cred
its, and in the money or currency of the contract. The value
of the property sought to be released, if disputed, shall be
determined, in the money or currency of the contract, by the
court or Judge thereof, upon proof or by a sworn appraiser or
sworn appraisers, not exceeding three, to be appointed by the
court or Judge for that purpose. Before filing the undertaking,
the defendant shall serve a ?opy thereof upon the plaintifff, and
if the plaintifff require a justification by the sureties, he shall
give notice thereof to the defendant within two days ; or at the
time of giving notice of motion for an order to discharge the
attachment, the defendant may in his notice name the sureties,
and if the plaintifff require them to justify he shall give notice
" " " 1 • --.(ties
action is brought, or to the Judge thereof, for the discharge of
the attachment, on the ground that the writ was improperly
issued .
Sec. 3164. Sec. 142. If the motion be made upon affidavits on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may
oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition toj
those on which the writ of attachment was issued.
Sec. 31 63. Sec. 143. If upon such application it shall satisfactorily
appear that the writ of attachment was improperly issued,
it shall be discharged.
Sec. 3166. Sec. 144. The Sheriff shall return the writ of
attachment with the summons, if issued at the same time ; otherwise within twenty days after its receipt, with a certificate ofj
his proceeding indorsed thereon or attached thereto.
CHAPTER 5. —Deposit in court.
Sec. 3167. Sec. 145. When it is admitted, by the pleading or
examination of a party, that he has in his possession, or under
his control, any money or other thing capable of delivery,
which, being the subject of litigation, is held by him as trustee
for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party,
the court may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited in
court, or delivered to such party, upon such conditions as may
be just, subject to the further direction of the court.
3 168. Sec. 14(i. A receiver may be appointed by the court
in which the action is pending, or by a Judge thereof : First"
—Before judgment, provisionally, on the application of either
party, when he establishes a prima facie right to the property,
or an interest in the property which is the subject of the action,
and which is in the possession of an adverse party, and the
property or its rents and profits are in danger of being lost or
materially injured or impaired. Second —After judgment to
dispose of the property according to the judgment, or to pre
serve it during the pendency of an appeal ; and, Third—In such
other cases as are in accordance with the practice of courts of
equity jurisdiction.
TITLE VI.
Of the. trial and judgment in civil actions.
CHAPTER 1. —Judgment in general.
Sec. 3169. Sec 147. A judgment is the final determination of
the rights of the parties in the action or proceeding, and may
be entered in term or vacation.
Sec. 3170- Sec. 148. Judgment may be given for or against
one or more of several plaintifffs and for or against one or more
of several defendants ; and it may, when the justice of the ease
requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each
side, as between themselves.
Sec. 3171. Sec. 149. In an action against several defendants,
the court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one
or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the
others whenever a several judgment is proper.
Evans v. Cook, 11 New 69.
Sec. 3172. Sec. 150. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if
there be no answer, shall not exceed that which he shall have
demanded in his complaint ; but in any other case the court
may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the
complaint and embraced within the issue.
Sec. 3173. Sec. 151. An action may be dismissed, or a judg
ment of nonsuit entered in the following cases : First—By the
plaintifff himself at any time before trial, upon the payment of
costs, if a counterclaim* has not been made. If a provisional
remedy has been allowed, the undertaking shall thereupon be
delivered by the Clerk to the defendant, who may have his
action thereon. Second —By either party upon the written
consent of the other. Third—By the court when the plaintifff
fails to appear on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks
for the dismissal. Fourth —By the court when upon trial and
before the final submission of the case the plaintifff abandons it.
Fifth —By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when upon
the trial the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient case for the jury.
The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions shall be
made by an entry in the Clerk's register. Judgment may there
upon be entered accordingly. In every other case the judgment
shall be rendered on the merits.
Sharon v. Miniiuck, C Nev. 377; Burns v. Itodefcr, 15 Nov.
CHAPTER 2. —Judgment upon failure to answer.
Sec. 3174. Sec. 152. Judgment may be had, if the defendant
fail to answer the complaint, as follows : First—In an action
arising upon contract for the recovery of money or damages
only, if no answer has been filed with the Clerk of the court
within the time specified in the summons, or such further time
as may have been granted, the Clerk, upon the application of
the plaintifff, shall enter the default of the defendant, and imme
diately thereafter enter judgment for the amount specified in
the summons, including the costs, against the defendant, or
or any subsequent term of the court, for the relief demanded in
the complaint. If the taking of an account, or the proof of
any fact, be necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or
to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take the
account, or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a
reference for that purpose. And where the action is for the
recovery of damages, in whole or in part, the court may order
the damages to be assessed by a jury ; or if, to determine the
amount of damages, the examination of a long account be
necessary, by a reference, as above provided. Third —In
actions where the service of the summons was by publication,
the plaintifff, upon the expiration of the time designated in the
order of publication, may, upon proof of the publication, and
that no order has been filed, apply for judgment ; and the court
shall thereupon require proof to be made of the demand men
tioned in the complaint, and if the defendant be not a resident
of the state, shall require the plaintifff, -or his agent, to be
examined on oath respecting any payments that have been
made to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on account of
such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which
he is entitled to recover.
Burlinjr v. Gooihnnn. 1 New 314: Maples v. Geller, 1 Nov. 2.13;
Ballard v. Pun-ell. 1 Xcy. 312; Mears v. James. 2 Xev. 312; Kirtd
v. The Foiir-twentv Min. Co., 3 Xev. 3*11 ; Harper v. Mullorv, 4
Nov. 118; Elliot v.' Ivors, (i Nov. 287; State v. C. V. & 0. M. Co.,
Sec. 13 Xev. I'M; Ewing v. Jennings, 15 Xev. 370.
CHAPTER 3. —Of issues and the manner of their disposition.
Sec. 3173. Sec. 153. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion
of law is maintained by the one party, and controverted by the
other. Issues are of two kind : First, of law ; and second, of
fact.
Sec. 3176. Sec. 154. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer
to the complaint, or an answer as to some part thereof.
Sec. 3177. Sec. 155. An issue of fact arises: First, upon a
material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the
answer ; and, second, upon new matter in the answer, except
an issue of law is joined therein.
Sec. 31 73. Sec. 156. An issue of law shall be tried by the
court unless it be referred, upon consent, as provided in ehap-tr
ter six of this title.
Sec. 3179. Sec. 157. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury,
unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference be ordered, as pro-t
Tided in this Act. Where there are issues, both of law and
fact, to the same complaint, the issue of law shall be first dis
posed of.
Sec. 0180. Sec. 158. The Clerk shall enter cases upon the
or to a hearing, and in the absence of the adverse party, unless
the court for good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his
case and take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict, or judg
ment, as the case may require.
Sec. 3182. Sec. 1G0. A motion to postpone a trial, on the
ground of the absence of evidence, shall only be made upon
affidavit showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be
obtained, and that due diligence has been used to procure it.
The court may also require the moving party to state upon
affidavit the evidence which be expects to obtain ; and if the
adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be
given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial,
or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be
postponed. The party obtaining the postponement of a trial
shall also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the
testimony of any witness of such adverse party who is in attend
ance be then taken by deposition before a Judge or Clerk of
the court in which the case is pending, or before such NotaryPublic as the court may indicate, which shall accordingly be
done, and the testimony so taken may be read on the trial with
the same effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the
witnesses were produced. In actions involving the title to
mining claims and quartz ledges', if it be made to appear to the
satisfaction of the court that in order that justice may be done,
and the action fairly tried on its real merits, it is necessary that
further developments should be made, and that the party ap
plying has been guilty of no laches and is acting in good faith,
the court shall grant the postponement of the trial of the action,
giving the party a reasonable time in which to prepare for trial.
And in granting such postponement, the court may, in its
discretion, annex as a condition thereto an order that the party
obtaining such postponement shall not, pending the trial of the
action, remove from the premises in controversy any valuable
quartz rock, earth, or ores , and for any violation of an order so
made, the court or the Judge thereof may punish for contempt,
as in the cases of violation of an order of injunction, and may
also vacate the order of postponement.
Choatc ct Brown v. Bullion Mining Company, 1 Nev. 73; O'Neil v.
New York and Silver Peak Mining <'o.. 3 New 141; Beartv v.
Svlvester, 3 Nev. 22S; Tinkum v. O'Xeale, .» Nev. !)3; Silver
Milling Co. v. Fall, (! Nev. 116.
CHAPTER 4.— Trial by jury.
ARTICLE I.
Formation of the jury.
Sec. 3183. Sec. 1(11. When the action is called for trial by
" /~" 11 containing the
draw from the box twelve names, and the persons whose names
are drawn shall constitute the jury. If the ballots become ex
hausted before the jury is complete, or if for any cause a juror
or jurors be excused or discharged, a sufficient number of
additional jurors shall be drawn from the jury box and sum
moned as provided by law. The jury shall consist of twelve
persons, unless the parties consent to a less number. The
parties may consent to any number not less than four. Such
consent shall be entered by the Clerk in the minutes of the
trial. If either party to the action shall, prior to its being- set s
for trial, file and serve upon the opposite party an affidavit J
showing that property or money of more than the value of ten
thousand dollars is involved in the controversy, together with
a notice that he will demand a struck juiy for the trial of the
same, the court shall at the time of setting the cause for trial,
if it be satisfied that said amount or more is really involved,
and if the party demanding such struck jury shall deposit a
sufficient amount to pay the expenses of obtaining the same,
make an order that the cause be tried by a special struck jury,
which shall be obtained in the following manner : The Judge
shall proceed forthwith to draw from the jury box a list of one
hundred names of jurors therein contained, which lift shall be
opened to the inspection of either party at all proper times
after being drawn. At a time to be appointed by the court,
not less than twenty-four hours after the completion of such
list, the parties shall be required, in open court, to strike from
such list one name alternately, the plaintifff striking first, till
there shall be but fifty names remaining. Such fifty remaining
jurors shall thereupon be summoned, as provided by law, to
appear in court on the day fixed for the trial. They shall not
be bound to attend unless when summoned they are paid or
tendered their fees for one day's attendance and mileage from
their place of residence, if they demand it When the veirre
is issued for said jurors, either party shall have the right, upoas
payment of his fees, to demand of the Clerk a duplicate of the
venire, and he, or any citizen of the state in his behalf, may
serve the same, which service shall have the same effect as if
made by the Sheriff of the county. If on the day they are
directed to attend, less than thirty jurors are in attendance, or
if any of the jurors in attendance are for good cause or by con
sent of the pai ties excused by the court, so as to reduce the
number below thirty, the court shall thereupon, if either party
demand it, draw from the jury box an additional list of names,
not less than double the number so deficient, who shall be sum
moned as herein provided to attend forthwith or on any day to
which the trial may be adjourned ; and this process shall be
continued till there are at least thirty jurors for the parties to
choose from ; provided, that if any juror disobey the summons
to attend, the court shall, if either party demand it, compel his
attendance by attachment before summoning additional jurors,
unless the court be satisfied that such attendance cannot be
enforced within a reasonable time. When the attendance of
not less than thirty jurors is secured, unless the parties consent
j.Q y^Qgg from a smaller number, said jurors may be sworn and
examined by the parties on their voir dire, and after such exam
ination, the plaintifff first, and then the defendant, shall strike
from the list one juror alternately till the number is reduced to
twelve, or such less number as the parties may consent to, who
shall be sworn to try the case ; provided, that if there be an
uneven number of jurors to be stricken off, the court shall
strike off the last one ; and if at any stage of the proceedings a
party unreasonably delays to strike off a juror in his turn, the
court shall strike for such party so delaying to strike.-— As
amended, Stals. 1875, 04.
Sec. 3184. Sec. 102. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath
or affirmation shall be administered to the jurors, in substance
that they, each of them, will wTell and truly try the matter in
issue between , the plaintifff, and , the defendant,
and a true verdict render according to the evidence. After the
oath or affirmation has been administered and the jury has been
fully empaneled, it shall be the duty of the court to order the
jury into the custody of the Sheriff, or other officer selected by
the court, and the jurors shall not be allowed to separate or
depart from the custody of the Sheriff or other officer until
they have been duly discharged, unless by the consent of the
parties to the action. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff, at the
charge of the parties to the action, to prepare suitable and com
fortable apartments, and prepare food for the jury ponding the
trial.
Sec. 3185. Sec 1C3. Either party may challenge the jurors;
but when there are several parties on either side, they shall
join in a challenge before it can be mude, unless the court other
wise order or direct. The challenges shall be to individual
jurors, and shall either be peremptory or for cause. Each
party shall be entitled to four peremptory challenges.
Fleeson v. Savage Mininir Co., 3 New 157 ; Estcs v. Richardson, 6
New 12S.
Sec. 31 86. Sec. 104. Challenges for cause may be taken on
0T)e Qr more 0f ^ne following grounds : Eirst—A want of any
of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render a person
competent as a juror. Second —Consanguinity or affinity within
the third degree to either party. Third—Standing in the rela
tion of debtor or creditor, guardian and ward, master and
servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent, to either
party ; or being a member of the family of either party ; or a
partner, or united in business with either party ; or being secu
rity on any bond or obligation for either party. Eourth —Hav
ing served as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial
expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits of
the action, or the main question involved therein ; provided,
that the reading of newspaper accounts of the subject matter
before the court shall hot disqualify a juror either for bias or
opinion. Seventh—The existence of a state of mind in the
juror evincing enmity against or bias to either party.

Sec. 3187. Sec 1G5. Challenges for cause shall be tried by
the court The juror challenged, and any other person, may
be examined as a witness on the trial of the challenge.
article n.
Conduct of the trial.
Sec. 3188. Sec. 1GC. If, after the empaneling of the jury, and
before verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform
his duty, the court may order him to be discharged. In
that case, the trial may proceed with the other jurors, or a new
jury may be sworn, and the trial begin anew ; or the jury may
be discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards empaneled.
Sec. 3189. Sec. 1G7. In charging the jury the court shall state
to them all matters, of law which it thinks necessary for their
information in giving their verdict ; and if it state the testimony
of the case, it shall also inform the jury that they are the exclu
sive judges of ull questions of fact. The courl shall furnish to
either party, at the time, upon request, a statement in writing
of the points of law contained in the charge, or shall sign, at
the time, a statement of such rjoints prepared and submitted by
the counsel of either party. On the trial, either party may
require the Clerk to take down the testimony in writing.
Van V'alkenbnrjrv. Hull'. 1 Xev. 14i': Hurler v. Owen, 1 Nov. 401;
Harvev v. The Side-. Silver M. Co., 1 Nov. .">.'!!); Sherman v. Dilley,
;( Xev. 21 ; LoUlell v. Hall, .'! Xcv. 507; Van Vlcct v. Olin,
4 Xcv. !J,">: Dillev v. Sherman, _ Xev. 07: l.obijell v. Simpson,
■2 Xev. '274; Hardy v. The Ophir Co.. 4 Xev. ;>01; Ilrown v.
Jones, ") Xev. .'!7-t Cerliau-'r \. Xorlh llritish Co.. (i Xev. 15 ;
State v. McOiimK <> Xev. In!): Silver Minimr Co. v. Fall et al.,
V, Xcv. IK!; Caplcs v. C. V. It. It. Co.. (i Xev. 2ii.">: Sharon v.
Minnoek, C Xev. :177: Johnson v, Wells, Kurjio oz Co., ti Xev.
2.'4: Brown v. I.illie, 6 Xev. J14: (ierluuiser v. Xorth ltritishand
M. Ins. Co., 7 Xev. 174.
Sec. 3190. Sec. 1G8. After hearing the charge, the jury mayMa
either decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire,
they shall be kept together in a room provided for them, or
some other convenient place under charge of one or more
officers, until they agree upon their verdict or are discharged by
the court. The officer shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep
the jury separate from other persons. He shall not suffer any
communication to be made to them, or make any himself, unless
by order of the court or Judge, except to ask them if they have
agreed upon their verdict ; and he shall not, before the verdict
is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon. Each party to the
action may appoint one or more persons, one of whom on each i
side shall be entitled to remain with the officer or officers in
charge of the jury, and to be present at all times when any com
munication is had with the jury, or any individual member
thereof, and no communication, either oral or written, shall be
mule to or received from the jurors, or any of them, except in
the presence of and hearing of such persous so selected by the
parties ; and in case of a written communication, it shall not be
delivered till read by them. — As amended, Slats. 1875, 64.
Carnu<*han v. Ward, 8 Xcv. 30.
Sec. 3191. Sec. 109. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury
mil.y take with them all papers (except depositions) which have
been received as evidence in the cause, or copies of such papers
as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken from the
person having them in possession ; and they may also take with
them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on the trial,
taken by themselves or any of them, but none taken by any
other person.
Sec. 3192. Sec. 170. After the jury have retired for deliberation,
if there be a disagreement between them as to any part of
. ' . - _ ° . • i_ t
the testimony, or it they desire to be informed of any point of
law arising in the cause, they may require the officer to conduct
them into court. Upon their being brought into court, the
information required shall be given in the presence of or after
notice to the parties or counsel,
Sec. 3193. Sec. 171. In all cases where a jury are discharged,
or prevented from giving a verdict by reason of accident or
other cause during the progress of the trial, or after the cause
is submitted to them, the action may be again tried, immediately
or at a future time, as the court shall direct.
Sec. 3194. Sec. 172. While the jury are absent, the court may
adjourn from time to time in respect to other business, but it
shall nevertheless be deemed open for every purpose connected
with the cause submitted to the jury until a verdict is rendered
or the jury discharged. The couit may direct the jury to bring
in a sealed verdict at the opening of the court, in case of an
agreement during a recess or adjournment for the day. A final
adjournment of the court for the term shall discharge the jury.
Sec. 3195. Sec. 173. When the jury have agreed upon their
verdict, they shall be conducted into court by the officer having
them in chaiye ; their names shall then be called, and they shall
be asi*ed by the court, or the Clerk, whether they have agreed
upon their verdict ; and if the foreman answer in the affirmative,
they shall, on being required, declare the same.
Sec. 3196. Sec. 174. If the verdict be informal or insufficient
Sec. 3197. Sec. 175. When the verdict is given, and is not H
informal or insufficient, the Clerk shall immediately record it r
in full in the minutes, and shall read it to the jury, and inquire
of them whether it be their verdict. If more than one-fourth
of the jurors disagree, the jury shall be again sent out ; but if
no disagreement be expressed, the verdict shall be1 complete,
and the jury shall be discharged from the case.
article in.
The verdict.
Sec. 3198. Sec. 17G. The verdict of a jury is either general v
or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce o
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintifff or defendant ; a special verdict is that by which the
jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the court.
The special verdict shall present the conclusions of fact, us
established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them ; and those conclusions of fact shall be so presented as
that nothing shall remain to the court but to draw from them
conclusions of law.
Knickerbocker v. Hall, 3 Xev. 104.
Sec. 3199. Sec 177. In an action for the recovery of moniesa
only, or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion, may
render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court
may direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing upon all
or any of the issues ; and, in all cases, may instruct them, if
they render a general verdict, to rind upon particular questions
of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a written finding
thereon. The special verdict of finding shall be filed with the
Clerk and entered upon the minutes. Where a special finding
of facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the
former shall control the latter, and the court shall give judg
ment accordingly.
Sec. 3200. Sec. 178. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff, in an action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant,
when a counterclaim for the recovery of money is established,
exceeding the amount of the plaintifff's claim as established, the
jury shall also find the amount of the recovery.
Knickerbocker v. Hall, -i Xev. 101 ; Allen v. Iteilly, 1") Xev. i~>2.
Sec. 3201- Sec. 179. In an action for the recovery of specific
personal property, if the property has not been delivered to the
plaintifff, or the defendant, by his answer, claim a return thereof,
the jury, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if being
in favor of the defendant, they also find that he is entitled to a
return thereof, shall find the value of the property, and may,
at the same time, assess the damages, in gold coin, if any are
claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party
has sustained by reason of the taking or detention of such
property.
Sec. 3202. Sec. 180. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry shall
be made by the Clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying the
time of trial, the mimes of the jurors and witnesses, and the
verdict ; and where a special verdict is found, either the judg
ment rendered thereon, or if the case be reserved for argument
or further consideration, the order thus reserving it.
CHAPTER 5.—Trial by court.
Sec. 3203. Sec. 181. Trial by jury may be waived by the sev
eral parties to an issue of fact in actions arising on contract,
and, with the assent of the court, in other actions, in the man
ner following : First —By failing to appear at the trial. Sec
ond —By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with
the Cler.c. Third—By oral consent in open court, entered in
the minutes.
Sec. 3204. Sec. 182. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the
court, its decision shall be given in writing and filed with the
Cleric, within ten days after the trial took place. In giving the
decision, the facts found and the conclusions of law shall be
separately stated. Judgment upon the decision shall be entered
accordingly.
Sec. 3203. Sec 183. On a judgment upon an issue of law, if
the taking of an account be necessary to enable the court to
complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered. Chancery
cases may be tried by the court, with or without the rinding of
a jury, upon' issues formed by the court.
Bnwn and Ka_'ar v. Lillie, 6 Nov. 177: Lookbart v. Markie. 2
New 2 It: S:a:e v. Yell >w Jacket M. C >. 3 New 413; Whitm >rc
v. Slfiverick. 3 Nov. 2.SS; Virgin v. Bnibaker.4 New .'il ; Sttit«»v.
M mliattan ('.>., 4 New 318; Col-bat v. Job, 3 Nev. L'Ol ; L>w v.
Crown Point, 2 Nev. 73.
CHAPTER G. —Or references and trial by referee.
Sec. 3206. Sec. 184. A reference may be ordered upon the
agreement of the parties, filed with the Clerk, or entered in the
minutes : First—To try any or all of the issues in an action or
proceeding whether of fact or of law, and to report a judgment
thereon. Second—To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the
court to proceed and determine the case,
Sec. 3207. Sec 185. When the parties do not consent, the
court may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion,
direct a referee in the following cases : First— When the trial
of an issue of facts requires the examination of a long account on
either side ; in which case the referees may be directed to hear
and decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific question
of fact involved therein. Second—When the taking of an
account is necessary for the information of the court before
judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect.
Third — When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,
arises upon motion or otherwise in any stage of the action ; or,
Fourth — When it is necessary for the information of the court
in a special proceeding.
Sec. 3208. Sfx. 1S(J. A reference may be ordered to any person
or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties.
If the parties do not agree, the court or Judge shall appoint
one or more referees, not exceeding three, who reside in the
county in which the action or proceeding is triable, and against
whom there is no legal objection.
Sec. 3209. Sec. 187. Either party may object to the appointmerit
of any person as referee on one or more of the following
grounds : First —A want of any of the qualifications prescribed
by statute to render a person competent as a juror. Second —
Consanguinity or affinity within the third degree to either
party. Third—Standing in the relation of guardian and ward,
master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent
to either party, or being a member of the family of either party,
or a partner in business with either party, or being security on
any bond or obligation for either party. Fourth—Having
served as a juror or been a witness on any trial between the same
parties for the same cause of action, or being then a witness in
the cause. Fifth —Interest on the part of such person in the
event of the action, or in the main question involved in the
action. Sixth—Having formed or expressed an unqualified
opinion or belief as to the merits of the action. Seventh— The
existence of a state of mind in such person evincing enmity
against or bias to either party.
Sec. 3210- Sec. 188. The objections taken to the appointment
of any person as referee shall be heard and disposed of by the
court. Affidavits may be read and any person examined as a
witness as to such objections.
Sec. 3211. Sec 189. The referees shall make their report
within ten days after the testimony before them is closed.
Their report upon the whole issue shall stand as the decision of
the court, and upon filing the report with the Clerk of the
court, judgment may be enteied thereon in the same manner as
if the action had been tried by the court. The decision of the
referees may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner as if
made by the court. When the reference is to report the facts,
the report shall have the effect of a special verdict.
CHAPTER 7. — General provisions relating to trials.
ARTICLE I.
Exceptions.
Sec. 3212. Sec. 190. An exception is an objection taken at
the trial to a decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial
be by jury, court, or referees, and whether the decision be made
during the formation of a jury, or in the admission of evidence,
or in the charge to a jury, or at any other time from the calling
of the action for trial to the rendering of the verdict or decision.
But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for a new trial,
or on an appeal, unless the exception be material, and affect the
substantial rights of the parties.
People v. (jlcas'in, 1 Xev. 17.'!; Sherwood v. Sissa, 5 Xev. 3il);
Caliill v. Ilii-si'liiiiiin, G Xev. ."j7; Fitzpatrick v. Fitzpatrirk, ti
Xev. State v. IllioaiU*, (i Xev. 3f>2 ; Slmnui v. Miimoek, 6
New .'J77 ; Burns v. Koilei'er, l."> Xev. .30; Xcsliitt v. Cliisholm, 16
Ncv. 31).
Sec. 3213. Sec. 191. The point of the exception shall be par
ticularly stated, and may be delivered in writing to the Judge,
or, if the party require it, shall be written down by the Clerk.
When delivered in writing or written down by the Clerk, it
shall be made conformable to the truth, or be at the time cor
rected until it is so made conformable. When not delivered in
writing or written down as above, it may be entered in the
Judge's minutes and afterwards settled in a statement of the
case, as provided in this Act ; provided, that if the Judge shall
in any case refuse to allow an exception in accordance with the
facts, any party aggrieved thereby may petition the supreme
court for leave to prove the same, and shall have the right so to
do, in such mode and manner and according to such regula
tions as the supreme court may by rules impose, and such ex
ceptions as are allowed by said supreme court shall become a part of the record of the cause.
Sec. 3214. Sec. 192. No particular form of exception shall be
required ; the objection shall be stated with so much of the evi
dence, or other matter, as is necessary to explain it, but no
more, and the whole as briefly as possible.
Sec. 3215. Sec. 103. When a cause has been tried by the
court, or by referees, and the decision or report is not made im
mediately after the closing of the testimony, the decision or
report shall be deemed excepted to on motion for a new trial or
on appeal, without any special notice that an exception is taken
thereto.
akticle n.
New trials.
Sec. 3216. Sec. 194. A new trial is a re-examination of an
issue of fact in the same court after a trial and decision by a
jury, court, or referees.
Sec. 3217. Sec. 195. The former verdict or other decision mav
bc v.lc.lted aud a new triai granted on the application of the
party aggrieved for any of the following causes materially
affecting the substantial rights of such party : First—Irregu1
'' 1 '~ niirtv. or
discovered evidence, material for the party making the applica
tion, which he could not with reasonable diligence have
discovered and produced at the trial. Fifth.-—Excessive dam
ages, appearing to have been given under the influence of
passion or prejudice. Sixth — Insufficiency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision, or that it is against law.
Seventh—Error in law occurring at the trial and excepted to by
the party making the application.
Gray v. Harris m, 1 Xev. .r)02; Levey v. Farsro, 1 Nov. 417; Killip
v. Empire Mill (\>.. 2 Xev. 1 ; Mel 'lusky v. Gerhauser. 2 Nov. -17 ;
Lawrence v. Burnham, 4 Xew 1501 ; Seott v. Haines, 4 Ncv. 420;
State v. Yellow Jacket, 5 Nov., 415; Uiehardsou v. Junes &
Denton, 1 New lor*; Gregory v. Frorhiiudiam, 1 Nov. 2~)o;
Bryant v. Carson Lumbering Co., Xev. :>i;i: Saerainento and
Meredith Mining Coni|ianv v. Showers, (i Xev. 201 ; Philpotts v.
Blasdel. S Now (11 ; Fulton v. Day, « Xev. so ; Lihby v. Dalton,
!i Xev. 2.'i; Street v. Lemon M.anil M. Co., 9 Xev. 2)1 ; Sherman
v. Shaw. !> Xev. 1 18; Lain hurt li v. Dalton, !) Nov. Gl : State ex rel.
Nevada Orphan A-yluin v. Halloek, 10 Xev. .'iT.'i; Brown v.
Warren, 17 Xev. 417; Simpson v. Is Xev. 2"*; Jones v.
Adams, is Xev. 00; Kliler v. Krovert. lh Xev. 278; HoU'man v.
Boseh. is Xev. :>>;'>; Sultan v. Slierwoo.l, is Xev. 4.H; Lake v.
Bender, Is Xev. oGl; Howard v. Winters, ,'J Xev. .">:!!).
Sec. 3218. Sec. 190. When the application is made for a cause
mentioned in the first, second, third, and fourth subdivisions of
the hist section, it shall be made upon affidavit ; for any other
cause, it shall be made upon a statement prepared as provided
in the next section.
Rhodes v. Williams, 12 Xev. 20.
Sec. 3219- Sec. 197. The party intending to move for a new
trial shall give notice of the same as follows : When the action
has been tried by a jury, within five days after the rendition of
the verdict, and when the action has been tried by the court or
by a referee, within ten days after receiving written notice of
the rendering of the decision of the Judge, or of the filing the
report of the referee. The notice shall designate generally the
grounds upon which the motion will be made. Within five days
after giving such notice the said party shall prepare and file
with the Clerk the affidavit or statement required by the last section. A copy of the affidavit shall on the same day be served
on the adverse party. The party preparing the statement shall
number the pages and lines thereof, and after having filed the
same with the Clerk, and had such filing entered and indorsed,
shall serve the same on the adverse party on the same day, who
may propose amendments thereto, referring to the page and
line of the statement, and shall, within five days after the ser
vice on him of the statement, file his amendment with the Clerk,
and after having such filing entered and indorsed, shall on the
same day serve the same, with the statement, upon the moving
part}", who shall within five days thereafter give written notice
to the adverse party if he declines admitting the amendments,
or they shall be deemed accepted. At any time thereafter either
party may have the statement settled by the Judge or referee
upon two days' notice thereof to the other party. If no affidavit or statement be filed within five days after the notice for
a new trial, the right to move for a new trial shall be waived.
When the notice designates, us the ground upon which the motion
will be made, the insufficiency of the evidence to justify the
verdict or other decision, the statement shall specify the particu
lars in which such evidence is alleged to be insufficient. When
the notice designates as the ground of the motion, error in law
occurring at the trial and excepted to by the moving party, the
statement shall specify the particular errors upon which the
party will rely. If no such specifications be made, the state
ment shall be disregarded. The statement shall contain so
much of the evidence or reference thereto as may be necessary
to explain the particular points thus specified, and no more.
When the statement is agreed to, it shall be accompanied with
the certificate, either of the parties themselves in fact or their
attorney, that the same has been agreed upon and is correct.
When settled by the Judge or referee, it shall be accompanied
with his certificate that the same has been allowed by him and
is correct. When no amendments have been filed, the state
ment shall be accompanied with the certificate of the Clerk of
that fact. On the argument, reference may also be made to the
pleadings, depositions, and documentary evidence on file, testi
mony taken and written out by a short-hand reporter authorized
by the court to make the same, and the minutes of the court.
If the application be made upon affidavits filed, the adverse
party may use counter affidavits on the hearing. Any counter
affidavits shall be filed with the Clerk, and copies served on the
moving party, at least two days previous to the hearing. The
affidavits and counter affidavits, or the statement thus used in
connection with such pleadings, depositions, documentary evi
dence on file, testimony taken by a reporter, and minutes of the
court as are read or referred to on the hearing, shall constitute,
without further statement, the papers to be used on appeal from
the order granting or refusing the new trial. To identify the
affidavits, it shall be sufficient for the Judge or Clerk to indorse
them at the time as having been read or referred on the hearing.
To identify au_y depositions, documentary evidence on file, testi
mony taken by a reporter, or minutes of the court read or
referred to on the hearing, it shall be sufficient that the Judge
designate them as having been read or referred to in his certifi
cate to be for that purpose by him made thereon. The several
periods of time limited may be enlarged by the written agree
ment of the parties, or, upon good cause shown, by the court
or the Judge before whom the cause was tried.
Sec. 3220. Sec. 198. The application for a new trial shall be
made at the earliest period practicable after filing the affidavit
or statement, and the court or Judge granting or refusing a
new trial shall state in writing generally the grounds upon
which the same is granted or refused.
CHAPTER 8. —The manner of giving and entering judgment.
Sec. 3221. Sec 199. When trial by jury has been had, judgnient shall be entered by the Clerk in conformity to the verdict,
within twenty-four hours after the rendition of the verdict,
unless the court order the case to be reserved for argument or
further consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.
Howard v. Richards & Kichanls, 2 Nev. 128.
Sec. 3222. Sec. 200. When the case is reserved for argument
or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it
may be brought by either party before the court for argument.
Sec. 3223. Sec. 201. If a counterclaim, established at the
trial, exceed the plaintifff's demand, so established, judgment
for the defendant shall bo given for the excess ; or, if it appear
that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief,
judgment shall be given accordingly.
Sec. 3224. Sec 202. In an action to recover the possession of
personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the
possession, or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be
had, and damages for the detention or the value of the use
thereof. If the property has been delivered to the plaintifff, and
the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defend
ant may be for a return of the property, or the value thereof, in
case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and with
holding the same, or the value of the use thereof. In an action
on a contract or obligation for the direct payment of money,
payable in a specified or agreed kind of money or currency,
judgment for the plaintifff, whether the same be by default or
after verdict, or decision of the court or referee, may follow the
contract or obligation, and be made payable in the kind of
money or currency therein specified or thereby agreed. And in
an action against any person for the recovery of money received
by such person in a fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another,
judgment for the plaintifff, whether the same be by default or
after verdict, or decision of the court or referee, may be made
Sec. 3225. Sec. 203. The Clerk shall keep among the records
of the court a hook for the entry of judgments, to be called the
"judgment book," in which each judgment shall be entered,
and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determina
tion of the action.
Sec. 3226. Sec. 204. If a party die after a verdict or decision
upon any issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may
nevertheless render judgment thereon. Such judgment shall
not be a lien on the real property of the deceased party, but
shall be payable in the course of administration on his estate.
Sec. 3227. Sec. 205. Immediately after entering the judgment
the Clerk shall attach together and file the following papers,
which shall constitute the judgment roll : First —In case the
complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons,
with the affidavit or proof of service, and the complaint, with
the memorandum indorsed on the complaint that the default of
the defendant in not answering was entered, and a copy of the
judgment. Second—In all other cases the summons, pleadings,
and a copy of the judgment, and any orders relating to a
change of the parties.
Sec. 3228. Sec 20G. Immediately after filing a judgment roll
the Cleric shall make the proper entries of the judgment, under
appropriate heads, in the docket kept by him, and from the
time the judgment is docketed it shall become a lien upon all
the real property of the judgment debtor not exempt from exe
cution in the county, owned by him at the time, or which he
may afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires. The lien
shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be previously
satisfied. But the time during which the , execution of the
judgment is suspended by appeal or action of the court or de
fendant shall not be computed.
Kastcrbrook v. Upton, 1 Nov. 398.
Sec. 3229. Sec. 207. The docket mentioned in the last section
is a book which the Clerk shall keep in his office, with each
page divided into columns : Judgment debtors ; judgment cred
itors ; judgment ; time of entry ; where entered in judgment
book ; appeals ; when taken ; judgment of appellate court ;
satisfaction of judgment ; when entered. If judgment be for
the recovery of money or damages, the amount shall be stated
in the docket under the head of judgment ; if the judgment be
for any other relief, a memorandum of the. general character of
the relief granted shall be stated. The names of the defend
ants shall be entered in the docket in alphabetical order.
Sec. 3230. Sec 208. The docket kept by the court shall be
open at all times during office hours for the inspection of the
public, without cliarjre.; and it shall be the duty of the Clerk to
county, and from the *time of the filing the judgment shall
become a lien upon nil the real property' of the judgment debtor
not exempt from execution in such county, owned by him at
the time, or which he may afterwards acquire, until the said
lien expires. The lien shall continue for two years, unless the
judgment be previously satisfied. But the time during w-hich
the execution of the judgment is suspended by appeal, or action
of the court or defendant, shall not be computed.
Sec. 3232. Sec. 210. Satisfaction of a judgment may be
entered in the Clerk's docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the
Clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledgment of a convey
ance of real property, by the judgment creditor, or within one
year after the judgment, by the attorney, unless a revocation of
his authority be previously filed. Whenever a judgment shall
be satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon execution, it shall be
the duty of the party or attorney to give such acknowledgment,
and upon motion the court may compel it, or may order the
entry of satisfaction to be made without it.
Sweeney v. Hawthorne. C Xev. 120.
TITLE VII.
All the provision* of this title relative to the duties of the Sheriff
up in execution aiv made applicable to Constables by section oCO
of this Act.
Of the execution of the judgment in civil actions.
CHAPTER 1.— The execution.
Sec. 3233. Sec. 211. The party in whose favor judgment is
given, may at any time within five years after the entry thereof,
issue a writ of execution for its enforcement, as prescribed in
this chapter.
Hastinir* v. Johnson, 1 Xev. 013; Hamer v. Kane, 7 Xev, 61 ; Weil
v. Howard, 4 Xev. as I.
Sec. 3234. Sec. 212. The writ of execution shall be issued inF
the name of the State of Nevada, sealed with the seal of the
court, and subscribed by the Clerk, and shall be directed to the
Sheriff ; and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the
court, the county where the judgment roll is filed, the name of
the parties, the judgment, and if it be for money, the amount
thereof, and the amount actually due thereon ; and if made
payable in a specified kind of money or currency, as provided
in section two hundred and two, the execution shall also st:ite
the kind of money or currency in which the judgment is pay
able, and shall require the Sheriff substantially as follows :
First, if it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the Sheriff to satisfy the judgment with interest,
out of the personal property of such debtor, and, if sufficient
personal property cannot be found, then out of his real prop
erty ; or, if the judgment be a lien upon real property, then out
of the real property belonging to him on the day when the
judgment was docketed ; or, if the execution be issued to a
county other than the one in which the judgment was recovered,
on the day when the transcript of the docket was filed in the
office of the Recorder of such county, stating such day, or at
any time thereafter ; second, if it be against real or personal
property in the hands of the personal representatives, heirs, de
visees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall
require the Sheriff to satisfy the judgment , with interest, out of
such property ; third, if it be against the person of the judg
ment debtor, it shall require the Sheriff to arrest such debtor,
and commit him to the jail of the county until he pay the judg
ment, with interest, or be discharged according to law ; fourth,
if it be issued on a judgment made payable in a specified kind
of money or currency, as provided in section two hundred and
two, it shall also require the Sheriff «to satisfy the same in the
kind of money or currency in which said judgment is made
payable, and the Sheriff shall refuse payment in any other kind
of money or currency ; and in case of levy and sale of the
property of the judgment debtor, he shall refuse payment from
any purchaser at such sale in any other kind of money or cur
rency than that specified in the excution ; the Sheriff collecting
money or currency in the manner required by this Act shall
pay to the plaintifff, or party entitled to recover the same, the
same kind of money or currency received by him, and in case
of neglect or refusal so to do, he shall be liable on his official
bond to the judgment creditor in three times the amount of the
money so collected ; fifth, if it be for the delivery of the posses
sion of real or personal property, it shall require the Sheriff to
deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to
the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require
the Sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or profits,
recovered by the same judgment out of the personal property
of the party against whom it was rendered, and the value of the
property for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified
therein ; if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient
personal property cannot be found, then out of real property,
as provided in the first subdivision of this section.
Bullion Mining Co. v. CiU'-ms Co., 2 Nov. 1<">8.
Sec. 3238. Seo. 213. \V hen a writ of execution is issued on a
judgment recovered against two or mare parsons, in an action
time not less than ten nor more than sixty davs after its receipt
bvthe Sheriff, to the Clerk with whom 'the "judgment roll is
riled.

Sec. 3237. Sec. 215. Where a judgment requires the payment
of money, or the delivery of real or personal property, the some
sh'ill be enforced in those respects by execution.
Sec. 3238. Sec. 21(!. Where it requires the performance of0
any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served
upon the party against whom it is given, or upon the person or
officer who is required thereby, or by law, to obey the same,
and his obedience thereto enforced.
Sec. 3239- Sec. 217. Notwithstanding the death of a party
after the judgment, execution thereon may be issued, in case of
the death of the plaintifff, the same as if lie were living, upon
the application of his executor or administrator, or successor in
interest, to the court in which the judgment was rendered, and
in case of the death of the defendant, if the judgment be for
the recovery of real or personal property, execution may be
issued against such property, in the same manner and with the
same effect as if he were still living.
Sec. 3240- Sec. 218. Where the execution is against the property
of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the Sheriff of
any county in the state. Where it requires the delivery of real
or personal property, it shall be issued to the Sheriff of the
county where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.
Executions maybe issued at the same time to different counties.
Sec. 3241. Sec. 219. All goods, chattels, monies, and other
property, real and personal, of the judgment debtor, or any(
interest therein of the judgment debtor not exempt by law,
and all property and rights of property seized and held under
attachment in the action, shall be liable to execution. Shares
and interests in any corporation or company, and debts and
credits, and other property not capable of manual delivery,
may be attached in execution, in like manner as upon writs of
attachment. Gold dust and bullion shall be returned by the
officer as so much money collected, at its current value, without
exposing the same to sale. Until a levy, property shall not be
affected by the execution.
Sec. 3242. Sec. 220. If the property levied on be claimed by
a third person as his property, the Sheriff shall summon from
his county six persons qualified as jurors between the parties,
to try the validity of the claim. He shall also give notice of the
claim and of the time of trial to the plaintifff, who may appear
and contest the claim before the jury. The jury and the wit
nesses shall be sworn by the Sheriff, and if their verdict be in
favor of the claimant, the Sheriff may relinquish the levy,
unless the judgment creditor #ive him a sufficient indemnity
for proceeding thereon. The foes of the jury, the Sheriff, and
the witnesses shall be paid by the claimant, if the verdict be
against him ; otherwise by the plaintifff.
Sec. 3243. Sec. 221. The following property shall be exempt
from execution, except as herein otherwise specially provided :
First—Chairs, tables, desks, and books to the value of one hun
dred dollars belonging to the judgment debtor. Second—Neces
sary household, table, and Kitchen furniture belonging to the
judgment debtor, including stove, stovepipe, and stove furniture,
wearing apparel, beds, bedding, and bedsteads, and provisions
and firewood actually provided for individual or family use suffi
cient for one month. Third —The farming utensils or implemerits of husbandry of the judgment debtor ; also, two oxen or
two horses or two mules and their harness, two cows, and one cart
or wagon, and food for such oxen, horses, cows, or mules for one
month ; also, all seed grain or vegetables actually provided, re
served, or on hand for the purpose of planting or sowing at any
time within the ensuing six months, not exceeding in value two
hundred dollars. Fourth —The tools and implements of a me
chanic or artisan necessary to carry on his trade; the instruments
and chests of a surgeon, physician, surveyor, and dentist, neces
sary to the exercise of their profession, with their scientific and
professional libraries, and the law libraries of an attorney or
counselor, and the libraries of ministers of the gospel. Fifth —
The cabin or dwelling of a miner, not exceeding in value the
sum of five hundred dollars ; also, his sluices, pipes, hose, wind
lass, whim, derrick, cars, pumps, tools, implements, and appli
ances necessary for carrying on any kind of mining operations,
not exceeding in value the aggregate sum of five hundred dol
lars, and two horses, mules, or oxen, with their harness, and
food for such horses, oxen, or mules for one month, when
necessary to be used for any whim, windlass, derrick, car, pump,
or hoisting apparatus. Sixth—Two oxen, two horses, or two
mules, and their harness, and one cart or wagon, by the use of
which a cartman, huckster, peddler, teamster, or other laborer
habitually earns his living ; and one horse, with vehicle and
harness or other equipments, used by a physician or surgeon or
minister of the gospel in making his professional visits, and also
food for such oxen, mules, or horses for one month. Seventh
—One sewing machine, not exceeding in value one hundred and
fifty dollars, in actual use by the debto*r or his family. Eighth
—All lire engines, hooks and ladders, with the carts, trucks,
and carriages, hose, buckets, implements and apparatus thereto
appertaining, and all furniture and uniforms of any fire com
pany or department now existing, or which may be, under the
laws of this state, hereafter organized. JSinth —All arms, uni
forms, and accoutrements required bv law to be kept bv anv
taining, owned or hold by any town or incorporated city, or
dedicated by such town or city to health, ornament, or public
use, or for the use of any fire or military company now existing,
or which may be, under the laws of the state, hereafter organ
ized. Eleventh — No article or species of property mentioned
in this section shall be exempt from execution issued upon a
judgment recovered for its price, or upon a mortgage thereon.
Kliler v. Williams. 1(1 Nov. 416; Hammersmith v. Averv, IS Nov.
■l-lr>; Elder v. K revert, 18 Nov. -1 Hi.
Sec. 3244. Sec. 222. The Sheriff shall execute the writ against
the property of the judgment debtor by levying on a sufficient0
amount of property, if there be sufficient, collecting or selling
the things in action, and selling the other property, and paying
to the plaintifff or his attorneys so much of the proceeds as will
satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with the Clerk
of the court. Any excess in the proceeds over the judgment
and the Sheriffs fees shall be returned to the judgment debtor.
When there is more property of the judgment debtor than is
sufficient to satisfy the judgment and the Sheriff's fees within
the view of the Sheriff, he shall levy only on such part of the
property as the judgment debtor may indicate ; pro ruled, that
the judgment debtor may indicate at the time of the levy such
part; and, provided, that the property indicated be amply suf
ficient to satisfy such judgment and fees.
Miller v. ("herrv, 2 Nov. 1C5; Hastings v. Burning Moscow Co.,
1 Nov. UK).
Sec. 3243. Sec. 223. Before the sale of property on execution,
notice thereof shall be given as follows: First—In cases 0fp
perishable property, by posting written notice of the time and
place of sale in three public places of the township or city where
the sale is to take place, for such a time as may be reasonable,
considering the character and condition of the property. Sec
ond —In case of other personal property, by posting a similar
notice in three public places of the township or city where thej
sale is to take place, not less than live nor more than ten days,
successively, and, in case of sale on execution issuing out of a
district court, by the publication of a copy of said notice at least
once a wee!;, for the same period, in a newspaper, if there be
one, in the county. Third —In case of real property, by post
ing a similar notice, particularly describing the property, for
twenty days, successively, in three public places of the town
ship or city where the property is situated, and also where the
property is to be sold ; and also by publishing a copy of said
notice once a week, for the same period, in a newspaper, if there
be one, in the county ; provided, that the cost of such publica
tion shall in no case exceed the sum of two dollars and fifty
cents per square for the rir.st insertion and one dollar per square
for each subsequent insertion ; and, provided further, that in
any case where the paper authorized by this Act to publish such
notice of sale shall neglect or refuse, from any cause, to make
such publication, then the posting of notices, as provided in the
preceding section of this Act, shall be deemed sufficient notice ;
provided farther, notices of the s;tlc of property on execution,
upon n judgment for any sum less than five hundred dollars,
exclusive of costs, shall be given only by posting in three public
places in the county, one of which notices shall be posted at the
court house. —As amended, Stain. 1873, 75.
Sec. 3246. Sec. 224. An officer selling without the notice
prescribed by the last section, shall forfeit five hundred dollars
to the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages ; and
a person willfully taking down or defacing the notice posted,
if done before the sale or the satisfaction of the judgment (if
the judgment be satisfied before sale), shall forfeit five hundred
dollars to the aggrieved party.
Sec. 3247. Sec. 225. All sales of property under execution
shall be made at auction to the highest bidder, and shall be
made between the hours of nine in the morning and five in the
afternoon. After sufficient property has been sold to satisfy
the execution, no more shall be sold. Neither the officer hold
ing the execution nor his deputy shall become a purchaser, or
be interested in any purchase at such sale. When the sale is of
personal property capable of manual 'delivery, it shall be in
view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels
as are likely to bring the highest price ; and when the sale
is of real property, and consisting of several known lots or par
cels, they shall be sold separately, or when a portion of such
real property is claimed by a third person, and he requires it
to be sold separately, such portion shall be thus sold. All
sales of real property shall bo made at the court house of the
county in which the property or some part thereof, is situated.
The judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may also direct the
order in which property, real or personal, shall be sold. When
such property consists of several known lots or parcels, or of articles which can be sold to advantage separately, the Sheriff
shall be bound to follow such directions.
of this Act.
il property mi execution issued out of ju-tice~'
All mhs of l
courts shall
• made at or upon the property sold. Section ."^Ki
Sec. 324S. Sec 220. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount
bid by him for property struck off to him at a sale under exe
cution, the officer may again sell the property to the highest
bidder, after again giving the notice hereinbefore provided ; and
if any loss be occasioned thereby from the purchaser refusing
to pay his bid, the officer may recover the amount of such loss,
with costs, for the benefit of the party aggrieved, by motion
upon previous notice of five days to such purchaser, before any
court of competent jurisdiction.
Sec. 3249. Sec 227. Such eoiirt shall proceed in a summary
manner in the hearing and disposition of such motion, and give
;aafajja;jnajaq;'uopa.xasqjsp^uy'A'nuijaaujoaq;pun'Ando;
'(!<"!'A>'X!)'•hi.ich|iam:|1aa.)U.V)M«;
■jJnisnja.1osuos.iod.(mijopiqaq;
aq;unq;ojoma'uu.iojajqnqjaainoaq;a^nnio;pan.ijsuoa
atl?ouW*l*uuoipasSuipaoajdoa\;oqx-yzz'uaS'0SS8
•Ando;iiiasnja.ijasutjajndaq;iuojjpojaajjoajunouin
roq;pun'josnqajiid;uatil)asqiisjopnoaasoq;A*qpiqjunouin
asnqajiulaq;Ai:dpnqsAja.vqap[nnunrujoajqtidnaA*;jodojd
putosjadabbjojasnqajiidaq;uoq^-oa^'I9S8
•aunqo;JOAqappunau^'axajpiqspojisop;ipun'A;.iodojdaq;
jasiu|ojndaq;o;JOAqap{p:qsapisaq;i>up;nuijaainoaq;'A'auout
qato.u;kojo;tiipun'0[n;';qin.taq;j[iijasnqojndaq;o;A'aAiioo
I[i:qsa;i:ai|H.;aaqaiip■;uoii;a"i:<Ipunapisoq;joo;i:aut;.iaj
•paiAajST1AV
uotjnoaxaaq;A*t?paq;noA;jadojdqauso;punuipnqjo;qopaq;
asi:qn.uidoq;A*i:dfpiqsA'.ia.\qappmutirnjo0[qtidi;a;ouA*;jadojd
{nuotijadAmijojasi:qa.iudaq;uaq\\-q^i,-aac^'SSSS
"r-ijp.iaqanc^•piauiAidpunajnsjoajtiauxjjoan.lasnqo.mdaq;
o;joAtjappmia;naaxo\\v.i\nap:naq;Supx.raaaaqjoaq;'a'ououi
oq;Anpaq;no.C;.iado.idqanso;punmpnq,io;qopaq;qoiq.u
;soja;mpun'o[;p';qiqj\\r.jastujojndaq;o;.Coauoojptoso;t:o
»i«s-joq;'A';jodojdjnajjoapisnuod[\-\2Z'oac<'gggg
■poiAOjHti.wnoi;naoxo
uaqupun;o;ojoq;jo;qap;uoni.Cpn[oq;jotmiqapmi';sojo;iii
■3i«)s'4ri-"F-13tTJIT8a.iinl).)!!puno;po;n;i;sqnsoq[TVtjBjasnqo
.Cj.iado.idp;a.iaq;sosnajaq;o\\vuj^nTOsqisoqIP"IS9lll
'una;pajidxaunsjnoA'oaujopjoqosnojnunq;skojhio;ti;Kooq;
Binsoq;joo;nonp.iaat!josnqo.mdaq;o;o.uSipiqsJaaiyooqx
-Ma;diiqosto;mpoptAoidsv'uoijditiopa.io;;aafqnsaqpnqs
qoojiid.io;o[;jn;;sipqonojoipiqBaudoqx—pnooafjqqosa;jo
-do.idpiojoq;jouopduosop.iiipiop.md\—;s.nj:Suturejnoo
jnpmi'^nomiipnCoq;uaqAvpun:po;n;sosoqjpjqs;iuopdtuap
-ojo;;oo[qnsnoq\\—q;.nioLq;qnndooudojoqA\aqx—paiqx
oq;a;n;sos[uplltlKojnanp.iaaaq;'A'onajjnojoAouonijopujs[
paytoadsiiino[qn.uidapnmsi'apnmuaaqsnqapisoq;qatoA\
-ijpnCaq;tnpomaads;i;q;si;oniiisaq;oqipiqsqanpw'apnni
aqamunopduiopo.ippsqapjAYmAVma.i.majoaououijopupj
•a";uiio:>ot]}jojopjoosyja'juuoqoq;joaaqjoaq;xix
jaaqjoaq;Aqpaju.)((jpiqso}i:ol[i;.t.i.>q.nisjoa;njqdnpy-;uaiu
9(1A'tni'A*ia;n.irdasppisnrdAmi.io'uopoas;stooq;uipopiAoad
gtJ'nopdaiopojo;;aofqnsprosA";jadoj<j't'SSS
;uatu.opnfaqx—Jsjij:;sa.ia;mmsjossaaousJjaq;.10'suosiod
.Suia\<>[[ojaq;Aqp.quAojdjo;jnmojaqjauumuaq;mpaiuaapoj
may redeem the property from the purchaser within six months
affer t]le sale, on paying the purchaser the amount of his pur
chase, in the hind of money or currency specified in the judgment,
if any be specified, with eighteen per cent, thereon in
addition, together with the amount of any assessment or taxes
which the purchaser may have paid thereon after the purchase,
and interest on sueli amount ; and if the purchaser be also a
creditor, having a lien prior to that of a redemptioner other
than the judgment under which the purchase was made, the
amount of such lien, with interest.
Sec. 32S6. Sec. 234. If the property be so redeemed by a
redemptioner, either the judgment debtor or another redemp
tioner may, within sixty days after the last redemption, again
redeem it from the last redemptioner, on paying the sum paid
on such last redemption, with four per cent, thereon in addition,
and the amount of any assessments or taxes which the said last
redemptioner may have paid thereon after the redemption by
him, with interest on such amount, and, in addition, the amount
of any liens, held by said last redemptioner prior to his own,
with interest ; provided, that the judgment under which the
property was sold need not be paid as a lien. The property
may be again, and as often as the debtor or a redemptioner is
so disposed, redeemed from any previous redemptioner within
sixty days after the last redemption, with four per cent, thereon
in addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes which
the last previous redemptioner paid after the redemption by
him, with interest thereon, and the amount of any liens other
than the judgment under which the property was sold, held by
the said last redemptioner previous to his own, with interest.
Notice of redemption shall be given to the Sheriff. If no
redemption be made within six months after the sale, the pur
chaser or his assignee shall be entitled to a conveyance, or if
the property be so redeemed, whenever sixty days have elapsed
and no other redemption has been made, and notice thereof
given, and the time for redemption shall have expired, the last
redemptioner or his assignee shall be entitled to the Sheriffs
deed. If the debtor redeem at any time before the redemption
expires, the effect of the sale shall be terminated and he be
restored to his estate.
Zabriskie v. Meade, 2 Xev. 283.
Sec. 3257. Sec. 235. The payment mentioned in the two last sections may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the
case may be, or for him to the officer who made the sale ; and a
tender of the money shall be equivalent to payment so far as to
effect a redemption of the property, and all such payments or
tender shall be made in the Kind of money or currency in which
the last redemption was made, and in which the lien of such
redemption was payable. A person desiring to redeem may
-i i i* « i i i i .. •> ■ - * • .ii —„
against the property to be paid on redemption, specifying each
item ; and if he fail to furnish said statement within three days,
then it shall only be necessary to a redemption to pay or tender
the amount of the bid or the last redemption, as the case may
be, with the percentage allowed added thereto.
Sec. 3238. Sec. 23(5. A redeinptioner shall produce to the
officer or person from whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with
his notice to the Sheriff : First, a copy of the docket of the
judgment under which he claims the right to redeem, certified
by the Cleric of the court, or of the county where the judgment
is docketed ; or if he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a
note of the record thereof certified by the Recorder; second, a
copy of an assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified
by the affidavit of himself or of subscribing witnesses thereto ;
and, third, an affidavit by himself, or his agent, showing the
amount then actually due on the lien.
Sec. 3239- Sec. 237. Until the expiration of the time allowed
for redemption, the court may restrain the commission of waste
on the property, or may appoint a receiver to take charge of
the property, or the proceeds thereof, by order granted with or
without notice, on the application of the purchaser or the judg
ment creditor. But it shall not be deemed waste for the per
son in possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled
to possession afterwards, during the period allowed for redemp
tion, to continue to use it in the same manner in which it was
previously used ; or to use it in the ordinary course of hus
bandry ; or to make necessary repairs of buildings thereon ; or
to use wood or timber on the property therefore ; or for the
repair of fences ; or for fuel in his family while he occupies the
property.
Sec. 3260. Sec. 238. The purchaser from the time of a sale
until a redemption, and a redeinptioner from the time of hisP
redemption until another redemption, shall be entitled to receive
from the tenant in possession, the rents of the property sold,
or the value of the us.e and occupation thereof ; pruridrd, that in
case the property shall be redeemed as provided in this chapter,
the amount of such rents and profits which may have been
received by such purchaser or redemptioner, or which said pur
chaser or redemptioner may have been entitled to claim or
receive, unless such claim shall be released to the person claim
ing such right of redemption, shall be deducted from the
amount which said purchaser or redemptioner would be entitled
to receive on such redemption.


Sec. 3261. Sec. 239. If the purchaser of real property sold on
execution, or his successor in interest, or a redemptioner be
Sheriffs sale, or his successor in interest, fail to recover pos
session in consequence of irregularity in the proceeding's con
cerning the sale, or because the property sold was not subject
to execution and sale, the court having jurisdiction thereof
shall, on petition of such party in interest or bis attorney,
revive the original judgment for the amount paid by such pur
chaser at the sale, with interest thereon from the time of pay
ment at the same rate that the original judgment bore, and
when so revived, the said judgment shall have the same effect as
an original judgment of the said court of that date, and bearing
interest as aforesaid, and any other or after acquired property,
rents, issues, or profits of the said debtor shall be liable to levy
and sale, under execution in satisfaction of such debt ; provided,
that no property of such debtor bona fide sold upon the tiling
of such petition, shall be subject to the lien of such judgment ;
and, provided further , that notice of the filing of such petition
shall be made by tiling a notice thereof in the office of the
Recorder of the county where such property is situated, and
that said judgment shall be revived in the name of the original
plaintifff or plaintifffs, for the use of said petitioner, the party in
interest.
CHAPTER 2. --Proceedings supplementary to the execution.
Sec. 3262. Sec. 240. When an execution against property of
the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the
same judgment, issued to the Sheriff of the county where he
resides, or if he do not reside in this state, to the Sheriff of the
county where the judgment roll is filed, is returned unsatisfied,
in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after
such return is made, shall be entitled to an order from the
Judge of the court requiring such judgment debtor to appear
and answer upon oath concerning his property, before such
Judge, or a referee appointed by him, at a time and place speci
fied in the order ; but no judgment debtor shall be required to
attend before a Judge or referee out of the county in which he
resides, when proceedings are taken under the provisions of
this chapter.
Sec. 3263. Sec. 241. After the issuing of an execution agaiust
property, and upon proof by affidavit of a party or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the court or of the Judge thereof, that
any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to
apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such court, or
Judge, may by an order require the judgment debtor to appear
at a specified time and place before such Judge, or a referee
appointed by him, to answer concerning the same ; and such
proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the
-i debtor towards the satisfaction of the
of the debtor absconding, order the Sheriff to arrest the debtor
and bring him before such Judge. Upon being brought before
the Judge, lie may be ordered to enter into an undertaking,
with sufficient surety, that he will attend from time to time
before the Judge, or referee, as shall be directed during the
pendency of proceedings, and until the fund determination
thereof, and will not in the meantime dispose of any portion of
his property not exempt from execution. In default of enter
ing into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison.
Sec. 3264. Sec. 242. After the issuing of an execution against
property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay
to the Sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as
may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the Sheriff's
receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.
Sec. 3263. Sec. 243. After the issuing or return of an execution against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of
several debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof by affi
davit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the Judge, that any
persoil or corporation has property of such judgment debtor,
or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars, the
Judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or
any officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and
place before, him, or a referee appointed by him, and answer
concerning the same.
The wonW "in :m umitiii'. exree iin.; lit'tv dollars," are to be
deemed omitted in jubilees' court."*. Section .Mio of this Act.
Sec. 3266. Sec. 244. Witnesses may be required to appear
and testify before the Judge, or referee, upon any proceeding
under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an
issue.
Sec. 3267. Sec. 245. The Judge or referee may order any
property of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution, in
the hands of such debtor, or any other person, or due to the
judgment debtor, to be applied toward the satisfaction of the
judgment, except that the earnings of the debtor, not exceeding
fifty dollars for his personal services at any time within
thirty days next preceding the order, shall not be so applied
when it shall be made to appear by the debtor's affidavit, or
otherwise, that such earnings are necess irv for his own support
or the use of a family supported wholly or partly by his
labor.— .Is amended, Sla'x. 18N1, 121 ; 1883," U.
Sec. 3268. Sue. 24(>. If it appears that a person or corporation
alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted
to him, claims an interest in the property adverse to him,
or denies the debt, the court or Judge may authorize, by an
order made to that clfect, the judgment creditor to institute an
the same, or the court in which the action is brought, at any
time, upon such terms us may be just.
Sec. 3269- Sep. '247. If any person, party, or witness dis
obey an order of the referee, properly made in the proceedings
before him under this chapter, he may be punished by the court
or Judge ordering the reference, for a contempt.
IhiLicnuan v. Tmi^ 12 Nrv. 'Ml.
TITLE VIII.
Actions in particular cases-.
CHAPTER 1. —Actions fob the foreclosure of mortgages.
Sec. 3270. Sec. 248. There shall be but one action for the
recovery of any debt, or the enforcement of any right secured
by mortgage or lien upon reid estate or personal property,
which action shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. In such action, judgment shall be rendered for the
amount found due the plaintifff, and the court shall have power,
by its decree or judgment, to direct a sale of the incumbered
property (or such part thereof as be necessary), and the appli
cation of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs
and expenses of the sale, the costs of the suit, and the amount
due to the plaintifff. If it shall appear from the Sheriff 's return
that there is a deficiency of such proceeds and a balance still
due to the plaintifff, the judgment shall then be docketed for
such balance against the defendant or defendants personally
liable for the debt, and shall, from the timje of such docketing,
be a lien upon the real estate of the judgment debtor, and an
execution may thereupon be issued by the Clerk of the court, in
like manner and form as upon other judgments, to collect such
balance or deficiency from the property of the judgment debtor.
Sec. 3271. Sec. 241). If there be surplus money remaiuing
after payment of the amount due on. the mortgage, lien, or
encumbrance, with costs, the court may cause the same to be
paid to the person entitled to it, and in the meantime may
direct it to be deposited in court.
Sec. 3272. Sec. 2.10. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien
or encumbrance is held be not all due, so soon as sufficient of
the property has been sold to pay the amount due, with costs,
the s:ile shall cease ; and afterwards, as often as more becomes
— order
Sec. 3273. Sec. 251. Anything which is injurious to health,
or indecent and offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the
free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance, and the subject of
an action. Such action may be brought by any person whose
property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment
is lessened by the nuisance ; and by the judgment the nuisance
may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.
Sec. 3274. Sec. 252. If a guardian, tenant for life or years,
joint tenant, or tenant in common of real property, commit
waste thereon, any person aggrieved by the waste may bring an
action against him therefore, in which action there may be judg
ment for treble damages.
Sec. 3273. Sko. 253. Any person who shall cut down or carry
off any wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure any tree or timber on the land of another person, or
on the street or highway in front of any person's house, village
or city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on the commons or public
grounds of any city or town, or on the street or highway in
front thereof, without lawful authority, shall be liable to the
owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the
amount of damages which may be assessed«therefore, in a civil
action in any court having jurisdiction.
Sec. 3276. Sec. 254. Nothing in the last section shall authorize
the recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken
from uncultivated wood land for the repair of a public highway
or bridge upon the land, or adjoining it.
Sec. 3277. Sec. 255. If a person recover damages for a forcible
or unlawful entry in or upon, or detention of any building orc
any uncultivated real property, judgment may be entered for
three times the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.
CHAPTER 3. — Actions to determine conflicting claims to real
property, and other provisions relating to actions concern
ing real estate.
Sec. 3278. Sec. 25(5. An action may be brought by any person
in possession, by himself or his tenant, of real property, against
any person who claims an estate or interest therein adverse to
him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate,
or interest.
.Ylfiml v. IVwin, 1 Nov. I'OT : Low v. Staples, 2 Nov. SK); Blasrtel
v. Williams, !) Nov. It ; 1 : Sr.irpiun S.' M. Co. v. Marsnno, 1(1
Nov. ".Til.
Sec. 3279. Sec. 257. If the defendant in such action disclaim
in his answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer
judgment to be taken against him without answer, the plaintifff
shall not recover costs.
Sec. 3280- Sec. 258. In an action for the recovery of real
property, where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the
time the action was commenced, but it appears that his right
has terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict
and judgment shall be according to the fact, and the plaintifff
may recover damages for withholding the property.
Sec. 3281. Sec 259. When damages are claimed for withhold
ing the property recovered, upon which permanent improve
ments have been made by a defendant or those under whom he
claims, holding under color of title adversely to the claims of
tlie plaintifff, in good faith, the value of such improvements shall
be allowed as a set-off against such damages.
Sec. 3282. Sec. 200. The court in which an action is pending
for the recovery of real property may, on motion, upon notice
by either party, for good cause shown, grant an order allowing
such party the right to enter upon the property and make sur
vey and measurement thereof, for the purposes of the action.
Sec. 3283. Sec. 201. The ordar shall describe the property, a
copy thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant, and
thereupon such party may enter upon the property with neces
sary surveyors and assistants, and may make such survey and
measurements ; but if any unnecessary injury be done to the
property he shall be liable therefore.
Sec. 3284. Sec. 2tt2. A moitgage of real property shall not be
deemed a conveyance, whatever its term, so us to enable the
owner of the mortgage to recover possession of the real prop
erty without a foreclosure and sale.
Sec. 3285. Sec. 203. The court may by injunction, on good
cause shown, restrain the party in possession from doing any
act to the injury of real property during the foreclosure of a
mortgage thereon ; or after a sale on execution, before a con
veyance.
Sec. 3286- Sec. 204. When real property shall have been sold
on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who may
have succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes
absolute, recover damages for injury to the property by the
tenant in possession, after sale and before possession is deliv
ered under the conveyance.
Sec. 3287. Sec. 205. An action for the recovery of real prop
erty against a person in possession cannot be i>reiudiced by an
heritance or for life, or lives, or for years, an action may be
brought by one or more of such persons for a partition thereof,
according to the respective rights of the persons interested
therein, and for a sale of such property or a part of it, if it
appear that a partition cannot be made without great prejudice
to the owners.
Crosier v. McLiiuirhliii. 1 Nov. 34S; Dull v. The ('tailidciiw (V, 3
New .->:S1.
Sec. 3289- Sec. ,2(!7. The interests of all persons in the property,
whether such persons be known or unknown, shall be set
forth in the complaint specifically and particularly, as far as
known to the plaintifff ; and if one or more of the parties, or
the share or quantity of interest of any of the parties, be
unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the
ownership of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise,
or the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties
cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the com
plaint.
Sec. 3290- Sec. 2(18. No persons who have or claim any liens
upon the property, by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, need
be made parties to the action, unless such liens be matters of
record.
Sec. 3291- Sec. 2(>9. I mmediately after tiling the complaint,
the plaintifff shall file with the Recorder of the county in which
the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action,
containing the names of the parties so far as known, the object
of the action, and a description of the property to be affected
thereby. From the time of the filing it shall be deemed notice
to all persons.
Sec. 3292. Sec. '270. The summons shall be directed ' to all
the joint tenants and tenants in common, and all persons having
any interest in, or any liens of record by mortgage, judgment,
or otherwise upon the property, or upon any particular portion
thereof; and generally to all persons unknown who have or
claim any interest in the property.
Sec. 3293. Sec. 271. If a party having a share or interest is
unknown, or any one of the known parties reside out of the"
state, or cannot be found therein, and such fact is made to
appear by affidavit, the summons may be served on such absent
or unknown party by publication, as in other cases. When
publication is made, the summons as published shall be accom
panied by a brief description of the property which is the sub
ject of the action.
Sec. 3294. Sec. 272. The defendants who have been personally
served with the summons and a certified copy of the com
plaint, shall set forth in their answers, fully and particularly,
the nature and extent of their interest in the property, and if
such defendants claim a lien upon the property by mortgage,
judgment, or otherwise, they shall state the amount and date of
the same, and the amount remaining due thereon, and whether
the amount has been secured in any other way or not ; and if
secured, the extent and nature of tlie security ; or they shall be
deemed to have waived their rights to such lien.
Sec. 3295. Sec. 273. The rights of the several parties, plaint
iffs as well as defendants, may be put to issue, tried, and deter
mined by such action ; and when a sale of the premises is
necessary, the title shall be ascertained by jiroof to the satis
faction of the court, before the judgment of sale shall be made ;
and where service of the complaint has been made by publica
tion, like proof shall be required of the right of the absent or
unknown parties before such judgment is rendered ; except
that where there are several unknown persons having an inter
est in the property, their rights may be considered together in
the action, and not as between themselves.
Sec. 3296. Sec. 274. The plaintifff shall produce to the court,
on the hearing of the case, the certificate of the Recorder of
the county where the property is situated, showing whether
there were or not any liens outstanding of record upon the
property, or any part thereof, at the time of the commence
ment of the action.
Sec. 3297. Sec. 275. If it shall appear to the court, by the
certificate of the County Recorder or County Clerk, or by the
sworn or verified statement of any person who may have exam
ined or searched the records that there are outstanding liens or
encumbrances of record upon such real property, or any part
thereof, which existed and were of record at the time of the
commencement of said action, and the persons holding such
liens are not made parties to the action, the court shall either
order such persons to be made parties to the action, by an amend
ment or supplemental complaint, or appoint a referee to ascertain
whether or not such liens or encumbrances have been paid, or if
not paid, what amount remains due thereon, and their order
among the lions or encumbrances severally held by the said
persons and the parties to said action, and whether the amount
remaining due thereou has been secured in any manner, and if
secured, the nature and extent of the security.
Sec. 3298. Sec. 27(i. The plaintifff shall cause a notice to be
served a reasonable time previous to the day for appearance
before the referee appointed, as provided in the last section, on
each person having outstanding lions of record who is not a
party to the action, to appear before the referee nt a specified
time and place, to make proof, by his own affidavit or other
wise, of the true amount due or to become due, contingently or
absolutely, thereon. In case such person be absent, or his resi
dence be unknown, service may be made by publication of
such allegation in the complaint, to the1 satisfaction of the
court, that the property, or any part of it. is so situated that
partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners,
the court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the requi
site proofs being made, it shall order a partition according to
the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the court,
and appoint three referees therefore ; and shall designate the
portion to remain undivided for the owners whose interests
remain unknown, or are not ascertained.
DuntliTu v. Van Sickle. 11 Nov. :i8!).
Sec. 3300. Sec. 278. In making'the partition, the referee shall
divide the property and allot the several portions thereof to
the respective parties, quality and quantity relatively consid
ered, according to the respective rights of the parties, as deter
mined by the court, designating the several portions by proper
landmarks ; and may employ a surveyor, with the necessary
assistants, to aid them therein.
Sec. 3301- Sec. 27!). The referees shall make a report of their
proceedings, specifying therein the manner of executing their
trust, describing the property divided and the shares allotted
to each party, with a particular description of each share.
Sec. 3302. Sec 280. Th"" court may confirm or set aside the
report, and. if necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the
report being confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such
partition be effectual forevr, which judgment shall be binding
and conclusive : First—On all persons named as parties to the
action, and their legal representatives, who have ut the time
any interest in the property divided, or any part thereof, as
owners in fee, or as tenants for life, or for years, or as entitled
to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such prop
erty, or of any part thereof, after the termination of a particu
lar estate therein, and who, by any contingency', may be enti
tled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have an
interest in any undivided share thereof as tenants for years, or
for life. Second — On all persons interested in the property
who may be unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of
the action for partition by publication ; and, Third —On all
other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or either
of them.
Sec. 3303. Sec. 281. But such judgment and partition shall
not affect tenants for years less than ten, to the whole of the
property which is the subject of the partition.
Sec. 3304. Sec. 282. The expenses of the referees, including
those of a surveyor and his assistant, when employed, shall 1)C,
ascertained and allowed by the court, and the amount thereof,
together with the fees allowed by law to the referees, shall be
apportioned among the different parties to the action.
Sec. 3305. Sec. 283. When a lien is on an undivided interest
or estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be
made, shall thenceforth be a charge only on the share assigned
to such party, but such share shnll bo first charged with its just
proportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such
lien.
Sec. 3306. Sec. 284. When a part of the property only is
ordered to be sold, if there be an estate for life or years in an
undivided share of the whole property, such estate may be set
off in any part of the property not ordered to be sold.
Sec. 3307. Sec. 28o. The proceeds of the sale of the incum
bered property shall be applied, under the direction of the
court, us follows : First —To pay its just proportion of the gen
eral costs of the action. Second —To pay the costs of the refer
ence. Third —To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens
in their order of priority, by payment of the sums due and to
become due ; the amount due to be verified by affidavit at the
time of payment. Fourth —The residue among the owners of
the property sold, according to their respective shares therein.
Sec. 3308. Sec. 28(5. Whenever any party to an action who
holds a lien upon the property, or any part thereof, has other
securities for the payment of the amount of such lien, the court
may, in its discretion, order such securities to be exhausted
before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may order a
just deduction to be made from the amount of the lien on the
property on account thereof.
Sec. 3309- Sec. 2S7. The proceeds of sale, and the securities
taken by the referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed
by them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the court so
directs. But in ease no direction be given, all such proceeds
and securities shall be paid into court, or deposited therein, or
as directed by the court.
Sec. 3310- Sec. 288. When the proceeds of sales of any shares
or parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action,
and who are known, are paid into court, the action may be con
tinued as behveen such parties, for the determination of their
respective claims thereto, which shall be ascertained and ad
judged by the court. Further testimony may beta! en in court,
or by a referee at the discretion of the court, and the court may,
if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law in
controversy, by pleadings, as in an original action.
Sec. 3311. Sec. 2S1). All sales of real property, made by re
ferees under this chapter, shall be made by public auction to
the highest bidder, upon notice published in the manner re
quired for the sale of real property on execution. The notice
shall state terms of sale, and if the property or any part of it
is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge, or lien, that shall
be stated in the notice.
Sec. 3312. Sec. 200. The court shall, in the order for salt,
direct the terms of credit which maybe allowed for the pur
chase money of any portion of the premises of which it may
direct a sale on credit, and for that portion of which the pur
chase money is required, by the provisions hereinafter .con
tained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, in
fants, or parties out of the state.
Sec. 3313. Sec. 291. The referees may take separate mortgages
and other securities for the whole or convenient portions of the
purchase money, of such parts of the property as are directed
by the court to be sold on credit, for the shares of any known
owner of full age, in the name of such owner, and for the shaves
of an infant, in the name of the guardian of such infant, and
for other shares, in the name of the Clerk of the county and
his successors in office.
Sec. 3314. Sec. 202. The person entitled to a tenancy for life
or years, whose estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to
receive such sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction
for such estate, and which the person so entitled may consent
to accept instead thereof, by an instrument in writing, filed
with the Clerk of the court. Upon the filing of such consent,
the Clerk shall enter the same in the minutes of the court.
Sec. 3315. Sec. 293. If such consent be not given, filed and
entered, as provided in the last section, at or before a judgment
of sale is rendered, the court shall ascertain and determine
what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after deducting
expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be allowed on
account of such estate, and shall order the same to be paid to
such party, or deposited in court for him, as the case may re
quire.
Sec. 3316. Sec 294. If the person entitled to such estate for
life or years be unknown, the court shall provide for the pro
tection of their rights in the same manner, as far as may be, as
if they were known and had appeared.
Sec. 3317. Sec 295. In all cases of sales, when it appears that
any person has a ves:ed or contingent future right or estate in
any of the property sold, the court shall ascertain and settle
the proportional value of such contingent or vested right or
estate, and shall direct such proportion of the sale to be in
vested, secured, or paid over, in such manner as to protect the
rights and interests of the parties.
Sec. 33 18. Sec. 29G. In all cases of sales of property, the terms
shall be made known at the time ; and if the premises consist of
distinct farms or lots, they shall be sold separately.
Sec. 3319. Sec. 297. Neither of the referees, nor any person
for the benefit of either of them, shall be interested in any purchase ; nor shall a guardian of an infant party be interested in
the purchase of any real property, being the subject of the
action, except for the benefit of the infant. All sales contrary
to the provisions of this section shall be void.
Sec. 3320. Sec. 298. After completing a sale of the property,
or any part thereof ordered to be sold, the referee shall report
the same to the court, with a description of the different parcels
of land sold to each purchaser, .the name of the purchaser, the
price paid or secured, the terms and conditions of the sale, and
the securities, if any taken. The report shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk of the county where the property is situated.
Sec. 3321. Sec 299. If the sale be continued by the court, an
order shall be entered directing the referees to execute convey
ances and take securities pursuant to- such sale, which they are
hereby authorized to do. Such order may also give directions
to them respecting the disposition of the proceeds of the sale.
Sec. 3322. Sec. 300. When a party entitled to a share of the
property, or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out
of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his
receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him.
Sec. 3323. Sec. 301. The conveyances shall be recorded in the
county where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar
against all persons interested in the property in any way, who
shall have been named as parties in the action, and against all
such parties and persons as were unknown if the summons have
been served by publication, and against all persons claiming
from them or either of them.
Sec. 3324. Sec. 30*2. When there are proceeds of a sale be
longing to an unknown owner, or to a person without the state,
who has no legal representative within it, the same shall be in
vested in securities or interest for the benefit of the persons
entitled thereto.
Sec. 3325. Sec. 303. When the security of the proceeds of the
sale is taken, or when an investment of any such proceeds is
made, it shall be done, except as herein otherwise provided, in
the name of the Clerk of the county where the papers are filed,
and his successors in office, who shall hold the same for the use
and benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order of the
court.
Sec. 3326. Sec. 304. When security is taken by the referees
on a sale, and the parties interested in such security, by an
instrument in writing under their hands delivered to the referees,
agree upon the shares and proportions to which they are re
spectively entitled ; or when shares and proportions have been
previously adjudged by the court, such securities shall be taken
in the names of, and payable to, the parties respectively enti
tled thereto, and shall be delivered to such parties upon their
receipt therefore. Such agreement and receipt shall be returned
and riled with the Clerk.
Sec. 3327. Sec. 305. The Clerk in whose name a security is
taken, or by whom an investment is made, and his successors in
office, shall receive the interest and principal as it becomes due,
and apply and invest the same as the court may direct, and
shall file in his office all securities taken, and keep an account
in a book provided and kept for that purpose in the Clerk's
office, free for inspection by all persons, of investments and
monr"" - ' ' ' " *v — shall not be required to be made to others by owners unknown,
nor by infants, unless in case of an infant it appear that he has
personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that his inter
ests will be promoted thereby.
Sec. 3329. Sec. 307. When the share of an infant is sold, theP
proceeds of the sale may be paid by the referee mal.ing the sale
to his general guardian or the special guardian appointed for
him in the action, upon giving the security required by law or
directed by order of the court.
Sec. 3330. Sec 308. The guardian who may be entitled to the
custody und management of the estate of an insane person, 0rI)
other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs,
whose interest in real property shall have been sold, may receive,
in behalf of such person, his share of the proceeds of such real
property, from the referee, on executing with sufficient sureties
an undertaking approved by a Judge of the court, that he will
faithfully discharge the trust imposed in him, and will render a
true and just account to the person entitled, or to his legal rep
resentatives.
Sec. 3331. Sec 300. The general guardian of an infant, and
the guardian entitled to the custody and management of the
estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable
of conducting his own affairs, who is interested in real estate
held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner so
as to authorize his being made a party to an action for the par
tition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and
agree upon the share to be set off to such infant or other person
entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf to the owners
of the shares of the parts to which they may be respectively
entitled, upon an order of the court.
Sec. 3332. Sec. 310. The costs of partition, including fees of
referees and other disbursements, shall be paid by the parties
respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in proportion
to their respective interests therein, and may be included and
specified in the judgment. In that case they shall be a lien on
the several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by exe
cution against such shares, and against other property held by
the respective parties. When, however, a litigation arises
between some of the parties only, the court may require the
expenses of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or
any of them.
Sec. 3333. Sec. 311. The court, with the consent of the parties,
may appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in
the proceedings under the provisions of this chapter, and the
single referee, when thus appointed, shall have all the powers
and perform all the duties required of the three referees.
Sec. 3334. Snc. 312. When the action is for partition of a
mining claim among the tenants in common, joint tenants,
coparceners or partners thereof, the court, upon good cause
shown by any party or parties in interest, may, instead of order
ing partition to be made in manner as hereinbefore provided,
or a sale of the premises for cash, direct the referees to divide
the claim in the manner hereinafter specified.
Sec. 3335. Sec. 313. The court shall, in its order, or by a
subsequent order made upon motion, fix the time for division of
the claim by the referees, which shall not be less than twenty
nor more than forty days from the day of making the order,
except by consent of all the parties in interest who have appeared
in the action.
Sec. 3336. Sec. 314. On the day designated in the order, the
referees shall go upon the claim to be divided, and proceed to
make division of the same as hereinafter provided, and shall
continue from day to day until the whole business is completed.
Sec. 3337. Sec. 315. Two or more of the tenants in common,
joint tenants, copartners or parceners, may unite together for
the purposes of such division, of which they shall tnve the
referees written notice before they commence the business of division ; and all who do not unite as aforesaid, or give notice
of separate action, shall, for the purposes of division, be deemed
and held to have united. The referees in their action shall
recognize those named in the order of the court, or their agents
and attorneys in fact, duly appointed by instrument in writing
under seal, and acknowledged as in cases of conveyances of
real estate, the guardian of an infant, and the guardian entitled
to the custody and management of the estate of an insane per
son or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own
affairs, and as to the interest of each, shall be controlled entirely
by the order of the court.
Sec. 3338. Sec. 31(5. At the time and place of division, one of
the referees to be selected by them shall, in the manner of
public auction, offer to the party or parties who will take the
least part or portion of said mining claim in proportion to the
interest he or they may have therein, the privilege of first select
ing the place at which his portion shall be located, and upon
closing the bids the referees shall proceed to measure and mark
off, by distinct metes and bounds, to the lowest bidder, his or
their portion of said mining claim, at the place designated by
them or him, according to the terms of his or their bid.
Sec. 3339. Sec. 317. When the referees have marked off and
set apart the interest of the lowest bidder, as provided in the
last section, they sliall offer to the remaining parties the privi
lege of selection as in said section mentioned and described,
and shall, upon closing the bids, proceed in the sime manner to
locate and mark off the portion of the lowest bidder, and shall
tliprenffpr nontinue in the same manner to receive bids and mark
Sec. 11 -nmajjj
Sec. 3341. Sec. 319. The referees shall return with their
report in this Act required to be made by them, the evidences
of authority presented to them by persons other than the parties
mentioned in the order of the court by which they claim the
right to bid, or otherwise act, during the proceedings hereinbe
fore mentioned.
CHAPTER 5. —Actions fok the usurpation of an office or
FRANCHISec.
Sec. 3342. Sec. 320. An action may be brought by the Attorney-General,
in the name of the people of this state upon his
own information, or on the complaint of a private party, against
any person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or
exercises any public office, civil or military, or any franchise
within this state. And it shall be the duty of the AttorneyGeneral
to bring the action whenever he has reason to believe
that any such office or franchise has been usurped, intruded
into, or unlawfully held or exercised by any person, or when
he is directed so to do by the Governor.
Sec. 3343. Sec. 321. Whenever such action is brought, the
Attorney-General, in addition to the statement of the cause of
action, may also set forth in the complaint the name of the per
son rightly entitled to the office, with a statement of his right
thereto ; and in such case, upon proof by affidavit that the
defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to the
office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be
granted by a Judge of the supreme court or a District Judge,
for the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail ; and
thereupon he may be arrested and held to bail, in the same
manner and with the same effect, and subject to the same rights
and liabilities as in other civil actions where the defendant is
subject to arrest.
Sec. 3344. Sec 322. In every such case judgment may be
rendered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the
right of the party so alleged to be entitled ; or only upon the
right of the defendant, as justice shall require.
Sec. 3345- Sec. 323. If the judgment be rendered upon the
right of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same beinof
favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath
of office and executing such official bond as may be required by
law, to take upon himself the execution of the office.
Sec. 3346- Sec 324. If judgment bo rendered upon the right
of the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person,
he may recover by action the damages which he shall have sus
tained by reason of the usurpation of the office by the defendant.
Sec. 3347. Sec 325. When several persons claim to be entitled
to the same office or franchise, one action may be brought
against all such persons, in order to try their respective rights
to such office or franchise.
Sec. 3348. Sec 32G. When a defendant, against whom such
action has been brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping, or
intruding into, or unlawfully holding any office, franchise, or
privilege, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be
excluded from the office, franchise, or privilege, and that he pay
the costs of the action. The court may, also, in its discretion,
impose upon the defendant a tine not exceeding five thousand
dollars, which fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treas
ury of the state.
TITLE IX.
Of appeals in civil actions.
CHAPTER 1.— Appeals in general.
Sec. 3349. Sec. 327. A judgment or order in a civil action,
except when expressly made final by this Act, may be reviewed
as prescribed by this title, and not otherwise.
Paul v. Armstrong, 1 Nrv. X2 ; California State Telegraph. Co. v.
Patterson, 1 Nov. 150; Maples v. (idler, 1 Nov. 283 ; Gregory v.
Frothiiighain, 1 Nev. 25;j ; lSallanl v. Purcoll et al.. 1 Nov. 342 ;
Lambert v. Moure, 1 Nev. 341 ; Easterbrook v. Upton, 1 Nev.
3!W ; Peran v. Monroe et al., 1 Nev. 4sd ; Gray v. Harrison c: al.,
1 Nev. 502 ; Williams et al. v. Glasgow, 1 Nev. 533; Maynard v.
Johnson, 2 Nov. 10; Killipv.Tiie Kmpiro Mill Co., 2 Nov. 34;
MrClusky v. Gci-hatr-or, 2 Nev. 17 ; Nosier v. Haynes, 2 Nev. 53 ;
Hastings v. ]!u ruing Moscow Co., 2 Nev. ; Howard v. Richards
and Richards, 2 Nev. 12s ; Champion v. Sessions et al.. 2 Nev.
Sec. 271; Gallagher v. Dunlap, 2 Nov. 32d: Ex parte Smith, 2 Nev.
Sec. 33!i; Reed v. Heed, -I Nev. 31)5; Lady Jirvan Gold and Silver M inins;
Company v. Lady Bryan Minim; Company. 4 Nev. 411;
Keysor v. Taylor, 4 Nev. 435; Neil v. Daniel, 4 Nov. 4.10; Flannerv v. Anderson, 4 Nev. 4.'!7 ; Combination S. M. Co. v. Curler,
4 Nev. 415; Ophir Silver Milling Co. V. Carpenter, 4 Nov. XH ;
Corbett v. Job, 5 Nev. 2)1; Honey v. Buekland, 5 Nev. 21!) ;
Cabill v. Hirseliman, (> Nev. 57; Klein v. Allenbaeb, 6 Nev.
Sec. 15!); State v. Eborhardt Conipanv, 6 Nev. 1 S*i ; Clark v. Nevada
L. ec M. Co., G Nev. 203; Lewis v.'Wilcox, (i Nov. 215; Conlov v.
Chedic. H Nev. 222; Johnson v. Wells. Fargo it Co.. 6 Nev. 224 ;
Meadow Valley M. Co. v. Dodds. 0 Nev. 301 ; Caples v. C. P. R.
II. C.i.. (J Nev." 205; Sta'e v. Wallin, 6 Nov. 28J; State v. Van
Winkle, 0 Nev. 310; Ophir S. M. Co. v. Carpenter, 6 Nev.
Kalmes v. Gorrish, 7 Nev. 31 ; MoCausland v. Lamb. 7 Nov. 2'V;
Wheeler v. Light. 10 Nev. 200 ; Irwin v. Sain])sou, 10 Nov. i;82 ;
Marshall v. Golden Fleece S. M. Co., 10 Nev. 150.
Sec. 3330. Sec. 328. An order made out of court, without
notice to the adverse party, may be vacated or modified without
notice, by the Judge who made it, or may be vacated or modi
fied on notice, in the manner in which other motions are mude.
Sec. 333 1. Sec. 329. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the
cases prescribed in this title. The party appealing shall be
known as the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent.
Sec. 3332. Sec. 330. An appeal may be taken : First—From
a final judgment in an action or special proceeding commenced
in the court in which the judgment is rendered, within one year
after the rendition of judgment. Second—From a judgment
rendered on an appeal from an inferior court, within ninety
days after the rendition of the judgment. Third—From an
order granting or refusing a new trial, from an order granting
or dissolving an injunction, and from an order refusing to grant
or dissolve an injunction, and from any special order made after
the find judgment, within sixty days after the order is made
and entered in the minutes of the court. Fourth —From an
interlocutory judgment or order in cases of partition which
determines the right of the several parties, and directs partition,
sale, or division to be made, within sixty days after the rendition
of the same.
Kelme v. Bleihen, 10 Nev. 445; Weinrich v. Porteus, 12 Nov. 102;
Solomon v. Fuller, 13 New 270; Lake v. Lake, V, Nov. 230.
Sec. 3353. Sec. 331. The appeal shall be made by filing with
the Clerk of the court with whom the judgment or order
appealed from is entered, a notice, stating the appeal from the
same, or some specific part thereof, and serving a copy of the
notice upon the adverse party or his attorney.
Johnson v. Badirer M. and M. Cj., 12 Nov. 2G1 ; Dick v. Bird, 14
Nev. 101; Dick v. Caldwell, 14 Nov. 1U7 ; Reese (J. and S. Min
ing Co. v. Rye Putdi Co., \o New 341.
Sec. 3354. Sec. 332. When the party who has the right to
appeal wishes a statement of the case to be annexed to the
record of the judgment or order, he shall, within twenty days
after the entry oi such judgment or order, prepare such state
ment, which shall state specifically the particular errors or
grounds upon which he intends to rely on the appeal, and shall
contain so much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain
the particular errors or grounds specified, and no more, and
shall file the same with the Clerk, and serve a copy thereof upon
the adverse party. The respondent may, within five days there
after, prepare and file amendments to the statement, and shall
serve a copy thereof on the appellant ; the statement and
amendments shall be presented to the Judge or referee who
tried or heard the case, upon notice of two days to the respond
ent, and a true statement shall thereupon be settled by such
Judge or referee. If no amendments are filed, the statement
may be presented to the Judge or referee for settlement, without
any notice to the respondent.
Gilliir, Motl .t Co. v. Lake Bhder Ron.1 Co.. 2 Nev. 211; Lnlxk'11
v. Hull, 3 Nev. ")07; Wliitiif >rc v. shi\ crick. ,'! Xcv. 2ns; ISryunt
v. C.irson LmiiU'riirj- Co., :t Nev. 313; O'Ncale v. Cleveland. 3
Nev. 18 i; Corbett v.Joli,.") Nev. 201; Sherwood v.Sissa, ."> Nev. 349;
Klein v. AlicnUich, (i Nev. loll Johnson v. Wei is, l-'aivo A: Co., ti
Nev. 221: Williams v Itice, 13 Nev. 2 !1: (ire Vy v. Holland. 14
Nev. 320; Brown V. Warren, Hi Nev. 22S ; li ise v. Richmond.
Sec. 17 N'cv. 2">; Jones v. Adams. 17 Nev. M; .Mandclbatmi v. Licbes,
Sec. 17 Nev. 131 ; hamancc v. Byrnes. 17 Nev. Ill" ; WiK m v. Hill,
1" Nev. 401 : Hamlmre; M. Co. v. Stephenson, 17 Nev. 419.
Sec. 3355. Sec 333. If the party shall omit to make a statement within the time limited, he shall be deemed to have
waived his right thereto ; and when a statement is made and
the parties shall omit within the several times above limited,
the one party to propose amendments, the other to notify an
appearance before a Judge or referee, they shall respectively be
deemed, the former to have agreed to the statement as pre
pared, and the latter to have agreed to the amendments as pro
posed ; but the Judge or referee who tried or heard the ease
shall, notwithstanding such omission or implied agreement,
have power to correct any misstatement of his rulings which
such statement may contain.
Iowa M. Co. v. Bonanza M. Co., 16 Nev. 64.
Sec. 3356. Sec. 334. The several periods of time above limited
may be enlarged, upon good cause shown, by the Judge before
whom the cause was tried.
Sec. 3357. Sec. 335. The statement, when settled by the Judge
or referee, shall be signed by him, with his certificate that the
same has been allowed and is correct. When the statement is
agreed upon by the parties, they or their attorney shall sign
the same, with their certificate that it lias been agreed upon by
them and is correct. In either case, when settled or agreed
upon, it shall be riled with the Clerk.
Caplrav. 0. P. It. R. Co., 6 Nov. 263; Williams v. Rice. 13 Nev.
Sec. 234; Solomon v. Fuller, 13 Nev. 270; Terry v. Berry, 13
New 514.
Sec. 3358. Sec 330. A copy of the statement shall be annexed
to a eopyof the judgment roll, if the appeal be from the judg
ment ; if the appeal be from an order, to a copy of such order.
Sec. 3359. Sec. 337. The provisions of the last five preceding sections shall not apply to appeals taUen from an order made
upon affidavit filed, but such affidavit shall bo annexed to the
order, in the place of the statement mentioned in those sections.
Sec. 3360- Sec. 338. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the
court may review any intermediate order involving the merits
and necessarily affecting the judgment.
Sec. 3361. Sec. 339. Upon an appeal from a judgment or
order, the appellate court may reverse, affirm, or moaify the
judgment or order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in
the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parties ; and
may set aside, or confirm, or modify, any or all of the proceed
ings subsequent to or dependent Upon such judgment or order,
and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the
judgment or order is reversed or modified, the appellate court
may ma! e complete restitution of all property and rights lost
by the erroneous judgment or order, and when it appears to the
appellate court that the appeal was made for delay, it may add
to the costs such damages as may be just.
Sec. 3362. Sec. 340. On an appeal from a final judgment, the
appellant shall furnish the court with a transcript of the notice
of appeal, and the statement, if there he one, certified by the
respective attorneys of the parties to the appeal, or by the
Clerk of the court. On an appeal from a judgment rendered
on an appeal, or from an order, the appellant shall furnish the
court with a copy of the notice of appeal, the judgment or
order appealed from, and a copy of the papers used on the
hearing in the court below, such copies to be certified in like
manner to be correct. If any written opinion be placed on file
in rendering judgment or making the order in the court below,
a copy shall be furnished, certified in like manner. If the
appellant fails to furnish the requisite papers, the appeal may
be dismissed.
State v. Manhattan Co., 4 Xev. 318; Corbett v. Job, 5 Nev. 201;
Robinson v. Imperial Mining Co., 5 Xev. 44; Cauclette v. Glis«on, 11 Xev. 1M.
Sec. 3363. Sec. 341. To render an appeal effectual for any
purpose, in any case, a written undertaking shall be executed
on the part of the appellant by at least two sureties, to the
effect that the appellant will pay all damages and costs which
may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding three
hundred dollars ; or that sum shall be deposited with the Clerk
with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the
event of the appeal. Such undertaking shall be filed, or such
deposit made with the Clerk, within five days after the notice of
appeal is filed ; provided, however, that nothing in this section
shall apply when the State of Nevada, or any county of the
State of Nevada, is the upjiellant ; nor shall such undertaking,
as provided for in this section, be necessary to perfect such
appeal, when the action or proceeding is brought for and in the
name of this state, or for and in the name of any county in the
state. All Acts and parts of Acts in conflict with this Act, are
hereby repealed. —As amended, Stats. 1875, 136 ; 1879, 23.
Alt v. California Fig Co., 18 Xev. 423.
Sec. 3364. Sec. 342. If the appeal be from a judgment ors
order directing the payment of money, it shall not stay the execution
of the judgment or order, unless a written undertaking be
executed on the part of the appellant by two or more sureties,
stating their places of residence and occupation, to the effVct
that they are bound in double the amount named in the judg
ment or order ; that if the judgment or order appealed from, or
any part thereof, be affirmed, the appellant shall pay the amount
directed to bo paid by the judgment or order, or the part of
such amount as to which the judgment or order shall be
affirmed, if affirmed only in part, and all damages and costs
which shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal.
When the judgment or order appealed from is made payable
in a specified kind of money or currency, the undertaking
required by this section shall be drawn and made payable in
the same kind of money or currency specified in such judgment
or order.
Johnson v. Radnor M. ami M. Co., 12 Xev. 201; State v. California
Mining Cn., Vi Xev. 3VJ.
Sec. 3365. Sec. 343. If the judgment or order appealed from
direct the assignment or delivery of documents, or personal
property, the execution of the judgment or order shall not be
stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or
delivered be placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as
the court may appoint ; or unless an undertaking be entered
into on the part of the appellant, with at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the court or the Judge thereof may
direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order of the
appellate court upon the appeal.
Sec. 3366. Sec. 314. If the judgment or order appealed from
direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the
execution of the judgment or order shall not be stayed by the
appeal until the instrument is executed and deposited with the
Clerk with whom the judgment or order is entered, to abide
the judgment of the appellate court.
Sec. 3367. Sec. 345. If the judgment or order appealed from
direct the sale or delivery of possession of real property, the
execution of the same shall not bo stayed unless a written
undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with two
or more sureties, to the effect that during the possession of
such property by the appellant he will not commit nor suffer to
be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be
affirmed he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the
property from the time of the appeal until the delivery of pos
session thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not exceed
ing a sum to be fixed by the Judge of the court by which the
judgment was rendered or order made, and which shall be speci
fied in the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of
mortgaged premises, and the payment for a deficiency arising
upon the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for the pay
ment of such deficiency. In all other cases, not hereinbefore
mentioned, the amount of the undertaking to stay the execu
tion of the judgment or order shall be fixed by the court or the
Judge thereof.
Sec. 3368. Ski"- 34-fi. Wheiipvpr nn anneal is nei'feeted. as ten
appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person
acting in another's right.
Lake v. Uke, 17 Nov. 230.
Sec. 3369. Sec. 347. The undertaking prescribed by sections O
three hundred and forty and three hundred and forty-one, three *
hundred and forty-two and three hundred and forty-three, may
be in one instrument or several, at the option of the appellant.
Sec. 3370- Sec. 348. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be A
of. no effect unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the 8
sureties that they are each worth the amount specified therein,
over and above their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of the
property exempt from execution ; except where the judgment
exceeds three thousand dollars and the undertaking on appeal
is executed by more than two sureties, they may state, on tlieir
affidavit, that they are severally worth amounts less than that
expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equiva
lent to that of two sufficient sureties. The adverse party may,
however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties within five
days after the filing of the undertaking, and, unless they or
other sureties justify before the Judge of the court below, or
Clerk, within five days thereafter, upon notice to the adverse
party, to the amounts stated in tlieir affidavits, the appeal shall
be regarded as if no such undertaking had been given ; and in
all cases where an undertaking is required on appeal by the
provisions of this chapter, a deposit in the court below of the
amount of the judgment appealed from, and three hundred dol
lars in addition, shall be equivalent to filing the undertaking,
and in all cases the undertaking or deposit may be waived by
the written consent of the respondent.
Sec. 3371. Sec. 349. In cases not provided for in sections three A
hundred and forty-one, three hundred and forty-two, three hundred and forty-three, and three hundred and forty-four, the
perfecting of an appeal by giving the undertaking, and the jus
tification of the sureties thereon, if required, or making the
deposit mentioned in section three hundred and forty, shall stay
proceedings in the court below upon the judgment or order
appealed from, except that where it directs the sale of perish
able property the court below may order the property to be
sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited to abide the judg
ment of the appellate court.
Sec. 3372. Sec. 3o0. Appeals may be brought to a hearing by H
either party upon a notice of three d:iys to the opposite party.
Before the argument each party shall furnish to the other, and
to each of the Justices, a copy of his points and authorities, or
either party may file one copy thereof with the Clerk, who shall
cause the requisite copies to be made.
Lake v. Lake, 17 Nev. 230.
Sec. 3373. Sec. 351. When judgment is rendered upon the j
appeal, it shall be certified by the Clerk of the Supreme Court ■
to the Clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed or the order
appealed from is entered. In cases of appeal from the judg
ment, the Clerk with whom the roll is filed shall attach the cer
tificate to the judgment roll and enter a minute of the judgment
of the supreme court on the docket against the original entry.
In cases of appeal from an order, the Clerk shall enter at length,
in the records of the court, the certificate received, and minute
against the entry of the order appealed from a reference to the
certificate, with a brief statement that the order has been
affirmed, reversed, or modified, as the case may be, by the
supreme court on appeal.
Sec. 3374. Sec. 352. Whenever costs are awarded to a party
by an a2>pellate court, such party may have an execution for
the same on filing a remittitur with the Clerk of the court
below, and it shall be the duty of such Clerk, whenever the
remittitur is filed, to issue the execution upon application
therefore, and whenever costs are awarded to a party by an order
of any court, such party may have an execution therefore in like
manner as upon a judgment.
Trench v. Strong, 4 Nov. S7 ; Tool man v. Purely, 5 Nev. 23S ; Im
perial S. M. Co. v. Bai-itow, 5 Nov. 2">2; Caldwell v. Greeley, 5
Nov. 2.">S; MoW.'linms v. Ilcrschinan, 5 Nov. 2(>:(; Covington v.
Docker, 5 Nov. 281; Sherwood v. Sissa. 5 Nev. 319; V. & T. R.
R. Co. v. Elliot, o Nev. 353 ; Yellow Jacket S. M. Co., 5 Nov. 415.
TITLE X.
Miscellaneous proceed ings.
CHAPTER 1. —Proceedings against joint debtors.
The provisions of chapter 1, title N, are made applicable to
justices' courts by section 5H<) of this Act.
Sec. 3375. Sec. 353. When a judgment is recovered against
one or more of several persons jointly indebted upon an obliga
tion, by proceedings as provided in section thirty-two, those
who were not originally served with the summons, and did not
appear to the action, may be summoned to show cause why
they should not be bound by the judgment in the same manner
as though they had been originally served with the summons.
Tinkuni v. O'Neale, 5 Nov. !>:».
Sec. 3376. Sec. 354. The summons, as provided in the last section, shall describe the judgment, and require the person
summoned to show cause why he should not be bound by it,
and shall be served in the same manner, and returnable within
answer within the time specified therein, denying the judgment
or setting up any defense which may have arisen subsequently,
or he nriy deny his liability on the obligation upon which thej
judgment was recovered, except a discharge from such liability
by the statute of limitations.
Sec. 3379. Sec. 357. If the defendant, in his answer, deny the
judgment, or set up any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the
answer, shall constitute the written allegations in the case. If
he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judgment
was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment,
the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, shall
constitute such written allegations.
Sec. 3380. Sec. 358. The issues formed may be tried as in
other cases, but when the defendant denies, in his answer, any
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was ren-J
dered, if a verdict be found against him, it shall be for the
amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgment, with
interest thereon.
CHAPTER 2. —Confession of judgment without action.
Chapter 2 is made applicable to justices-' courts, us to confession of
judgment, by se tion 312 of this Act.
Sec. 3381. Sec. 359. A judgment by confession may be entered
without action, either for money due oi» to become due, or to
secure any person against contingent liability on behalf of the
defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
Sec. 3382. Sec. 300. A statement in writing shall be made,
signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect : Pirst—It shall authorize the entry of judgment for
a specified sum. Second —If it be money due, or to become
due, it shall state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and
shall show that the sum confessed therefore is justly due, or to
become due. Third — If it be for the purpose of securing the
plaintifff against a contingent liability, it shall state concisely
the facts constituting the liability, and shall show that the sum
confessed therefore does not exceed the same.
Sec. 3383. Sec. 361. The statement shall be filed with the
Clerk of the court in which the judgment is to be entered, who
shall indorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book a judg-j
ment of such court for the amount confessed, with ten dollars
costs. The judgment and affidavit, with the judgment indorsed,
shall thereupon become the judgment roll.
Humboldt Mill and Mining Co. v. Terry, et al., 11 Xev. 237.
CHAPTER 3. —Submitting a controversy without action.
Sec. 3384. Sec. 3G2. Parties to a question in difference which
might be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree
upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy
depends, and present a submission of the same to any court
which should have jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must appear, by affidavit, that the controversy is real,
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine
the case and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
pending.
Sec. 3385. Sec 363. Judgfnent shall be entered in the judg
ment book as in other cases, but without costs for any proceed
ing prior to the trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of
the judgment, shall constitute the judgment roll.
Sec. 3386. Sec. 3G4. The judgment may be enforced in the
same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall
be in the same'manner subject to appeal.
CHAPTER 4.—Of arbitrations.
Sec. 3387. Sec. 3(55. Persons capable of contracting may sub
mit to arbitration any controversy which might be the subject
of a civil action between them, except a question of title to real
property in fee or for life. This qualification shall not include
questions relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real
property.
Stool v. Stool, 1 Nov. 27.
Sec. 338S. Sec. 366. The submission to arbitration shall be in
writing, and may be to one or more persons.
Sec. 3389 Sec. 367. It may be stipulated in the submission
that it be entered as an order of the court, for which purpose it
shall be filed with the Clerk of the court where the parties, or
one of them, reside. The Clerk shall thereupon enter in his
register of actions a note of the submission, with the names of
the parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date of the sub
mission, when filed, and the time limited by the submission, if any,
within which the award shall be made. When so entered, the
submission shall not be revoked without the consent of both
parties. The arbitrators may be compelled by the court to
make an award, and the award may be enforced by the court in
the same manner as a judgment. If the submission be not
made an order of the court, it may be revoked at any time be
fore the award is made.
Sec. 3390. Sec. 3(!S. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint
a time and place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to
administer oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations and evi
parties in relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a
just award according to their understanding'.
Sec. 3392. Sec. 370. The award shall be in writing, signed
by the arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered to the
parties. When the submission is made an order of the court,
the award shall be filed with the Clerk and a note thereof made
in his register. After the expiration of five days from the filing
of the award, upon the application of a party, and on filing an
affidavit showing that notice of filing the award has been served
on the adverse party or his attorney at least four days prior to
such application, and that no order staying the entry of judg
ment has been served, the award shall be entered by the Clerk
in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the effect of a
judgment.
Marsha'.] v. Gulden Fleece G. and & M. Co., 10 New 156.
Sec. 3393. Sec. 371. The court, on motion, may vacate the
award upon either of the following grounds, and may order a
new hearing, before the same arbitrators, or not, in its discre
tion : First—That it was procured by corruption or fraud.
Second—That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct or
committed gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone
the hearing, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or other
wise acted improperly, in a manner by which the rights of the
party were prejudiced. Third—That the arbitrators exceeded
their powers in making their award ; or that they refused or
improperly omitted to consider a part of the matters submitted
to them ; or that the award is indefinite, or cannot be per
formed.
Sec. 3394. Sec. 372. The court may, on motion, modify or
correct the award where it appears : First—That there was a
miscalculation in figures upon which it was made, or that there
is a mistake in the description of some person or property
therein. Second— When a part of the award is upon matters
not submitted, which part can be separated from other parts,
and does not affect the decision on the matter submitted.
Third —When the award, though imperfect in form, could have
been amended if it had been a verdict, or the imperfection dis
regarded.
Sec. 3393. Sec. 373. The decision upon tbe motion shall be
subject to appeal in the same manner as an order which is sub
ject to appeal in a civil action ; but the judgment entered before
a motion is nude shall not be subject to appeal.
Sec. 3396. Sec. 374. If a submission to arbitration be revoked,
and action be brought therefore, the amount to be
recovered shall only be the costs and damages sustained in pre
paring for and attending the arbitration.
CHAPTER 5. —Offer of the defendant to compromise the
WHOLE OR A PART OF AN ACTION.
Sec. 3397. Sec 375. The defendant may at any time before
trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintifff an offer to allow
judgment to be taken against liim for the sum, or property, or
to the effect therein specified. If the plaintifff accept the offer,
and give notice thereof within five days, he may file the sum
mons, complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of notice of accept
ance, and the Clerk shall thereupon enter judgment accordingly.
If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall be deemed
withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence ; and if the
plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment he shall not
recover costs, but shall pay the defendant's costs from the time
of the offer.
Stonccifer v. Yellow Jacket Co., 3 Xev. 38.
TITLE XI.
All of title XI. is made applicable to justice*' courts so far as the
samp is consistent with the jurisdiction and powers of justices'
courts by section 578 of this Act.
Of witnesses, and of the manner of obtaining evidence.
CHAPTER 1.—Of witnesses.
Sec. 3398. Sec. 370. All persons, without exception, otherwise than as specified in this chapter, who, having organs of
sense, can perceive, and perceiving can make known their per
ceptions to others, may be witnesses in any action or proceed
ing in any court of the state. Facts which, by the common
law, would cause the exclusion of witnesses may still be shown
for the purpose of affecting their credibility. —As amended,
Stats. 1881, 29.
Sec. 3399- Sec. 377. No person shall be disqualified as a witness
in any action or proceeding on account ot his opinions on
matters of religious belief, or by reason of his conviction of
felony, but such conviction may be shown for the purpose of
affecting his credibility, and the jury is to be the exclusive
judges of his credibility, or by reason of his interest in the event
of the action or proceeding as a party thereto, or otherwise, but
the party or parties thereto, and the person in whose behalf
such action or proceeding may be brought or defended, shall,
except as hereinafter excepted, be competent and be compellable
to give evidence, either rira voce or by deposition or upon a
commission, in the same manner and be subject to the same
rules of examination as other witnesses on behalf of himself,
-I q
be also, in the discretion of the court, proceeded against as in
other cases for a contempt.
Sec. 3401- Sec. 379. No person shall be allowed to testify
under the provisions of section three hundred and seventy-seven
when the other party to the transaction is dead, or when the
opposite party to the action, or the person for whose immediate
benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended, is
the representative of a deceased person, when the facts to be
proved transpired before the death of such deceased person ;
provided, that when such deceased person was represented in
the transaction in question by any agent who is living, and who
testifies as a witness in favor of the representative of such
deceased person, in such case the other party may also testify
in relation to such transaction, and nothing contained in said section shall affect the laws in relation to attestation of any
instrument required to be attested ; provided further, that when
husband or wife is insane and has been so declared by a com
mission of lunacy, or in due form of law, the other shall be a
competent witness to testify as to any fact which transpired
before or during such insanity, but the privilege of so testifying
shall cease on the restoration to soundness of the insane hus
band or wife, unless upon the consent of both, in which case
thev shall be competent witnesses. —As amended, Slats. 1877,
Sec. 160; 1879, 49 ; 1881, 80.
Crane. Hastings <fc Co. v. Glnstpr, 13 Xev. 27ft ; Vosey v. Benton,
Sec. 13 Xev. 251; Hi.';:* and Travis v. Hanson, 13 Xev. 330; Koncy
v. Buekland, 4 Xev. 43.
' 3402. Sec. 380. The following persons cannot bo witnesses
: First—Those who are of unsound mind at the time of
their production for examination. ' Second —Children under ten
years of age who appear incapable of receiving just impressions
of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating
them truly. —A.* amended, Stats. 1881, 30.
Sec. 3403. Sec. 381. A husband cannot be examined as a witness
for or against his wife without her consent, nor a wife forw
or against her husband without his consent ; nor can either,
during the marriage or afterwards, be, without the consent of
the other, examined as to any communication made by one to
the other during marriage. But this exception shall not apply
to an action or proceeding by one against the other. — As amended,
Stats. 1881, 30.
Sec. 3404. Sec. 382. An attorney or counselor shall not, without
the consent of his client, be examined as a witness as to
any communication made by the client to him, or his advice
given thereon, in the course of professional employment.
Sec. 3405. Sec. 3S3. A clergyman or priest shall not, without
the consent of the person making the confession, be examined
as a witness as to any confession made to him in his professional
character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the church to
which he belongs.
Sec. 3406. Sec 384. A licensed physician or surgeon shall
not, without the consent of his patient, be examined as a wit
ness as to any information acquired in attending the patient,
which was necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the
patient ; provided, however, in any suit or prosecution against a
physician or surgeon for malpractice, if the patient or party
suing or prosecuting shall require or give such consent, and
any such witness shall give testimony, then such physician or
surgeon, defendant, may call any other physicians or surgeons
as witnesses on behalf of defendant, without the consent of such
patient or party suing or prosecuting.
Sec. 3407. Sec. 385. A public officer shall not be examined
as a witness as to communications made to him in official confi
dence, when the public interests would suffer by the disclosure.
Sec. 3408. Sec. 38(5. The Judge himself, or any juror, may
be called as a witness by either party ; but in such case it shall
be in the discretion of the court or Judge to order the trial to
be postponed, or suspended, and to take place before another
Judge or jury.
Sec. 3409- Sec. 387. When a witness does not understand
and speak the English language, an interpreter shall be sworn
to interpret for him. Any person resident of the county may
be summoned by any Judge or court to appear before such
Judge or court to act as interpreter in any action or proceeding.
The summons shall be served and returned in like manner as a
subpoena. Any person so summoned shall, for a failure to
attend at the time and place named in the summons, be
deemed guilty of a contempt, and punished accordingly. ,
CHAPTER 2. —Manner of compelling the attendance of wit
nesses, AND THEIR RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
Sec. 3410. Sf.o. 388. A subpoena may require not only the
attendance of the person to whom it is directed, at a particu
lar time and place, to testify as a witness, but may also require
him to bring with him any books, documents, or other things
under his control, to be used as evidence. No person shall be
required to attend as u witness before any court, Judge, Justice,
referee, or other officer, out of the county in which he resides,
unless the distance be less than thirty miles from his place of
residence to the county of trial ; prodded, that such witness
shall have the right to demand payment in advance of his fees
for one day's attendance, and his mileage to and from the place
specified in the subpoena.
Meagher v. Van Zandt, 18 Xev. 230.
Sec. 3411. Sec 389. The subpoena shall be issued as follows :
First —To require attendance before a court, it shall be issued
in the name and under the seal of the court before which the
attendance is required. Second—To require attendance out of
court, before a Judge, referee, Justice or other officer author
ized to administer oaths or take testimony in any- matter under
the laws of this state, it shall be issued by the Judge, referee,
Justice, or other officer before whom the attendance is required,
Third —To require attendance before a Commissioner appointed
to take testimony by a court of a foreign country, or of the
United States, or of any other state, or of a territory of the
United States, or any District Judge or Justice of the Peace, of
this state, it may be issued by a Judge or Justice of the Peace
in places within their respective jurisdictions, with like power
to enforce attendance and to punish contempt of such subpoena
as such Judge or Justice could exercise if the subpoena directed
the attendance of the witness before his own court, in a matter
pending therein.
Sec. 3412. Sec. 390. The service of a subpoena shall be made H
by showing the original, and delivering a copy, or a ticket con
taining its substance, to the witness personally, giving or offering
to him at the same time, if demanded by him, the fees to
which he is entitled for travel to and from the place designated,
and one day's attendance there. Such service may be made by
any person.
Sec. 3413. Sec. 391. If a witness be concealed in a building
or vessel so as to prevent the service of a subpoena upon him,
any court or Judge, or any officer issuing the subpoena, may,
upon proof by affidavit of the concealment, and of the materiality
of the witness, make an order that the Sheriff of the county
serve the subpoena, and the Sheriff shall serve it accordingly,
and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel where
the witness is concealed.
Sec. 3414. Sec. 392. A person present in court, or before a
judicial officer, may be required to testify in the same manner
as if he were in attendance upon a subpoena issued by such,
court or officer.
Sec. 3413- Sec* 393. It shall be the duty of a witness, duly
served with a subpoena, to attend at the time appointed, with
any papers under his control required by the subpoena, to answer
all pertinent and legal questions, and, unless sooner discharged,
to remain till the testimony is closed.
Sec. 3416. Sec. 391. A witness, shall answer questions legal
and pertinent to the matter in issue, though his answer may
establish a claim against himself ; but he need not give an
answer which will have a tendency to subject him to punish
ment for a felony, nor need give an answer which will have a
direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the
very fact in issue, or to a fact from which the fact at issue would
be presumed. But a witness shall answer as to the fact to his
previous conviction for felony.
Sec. 3417. Sec. 395. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal
to be sworn or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidaSec. 3418. Sec. 396. A witness disobeying a subpoena, shall
also forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dol
lars rind all damages which he may sustain by the failure of the
witness to attend, which forfeiture and damages may be recov
ered in a civil action.
Sec. 3419. Sec. 397. In case of failure of a witness to attend,
the court or officer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the
service thereof and of the failure of the witness, may issue a
warrant to the Sheriff of the county to arrest the witness and
bring him before the court or officer where his attendance was
required.
Sec. 3420. Sec. 398. If the witness be a prisoner confined in
a jail or prison within this state, an order for his examination
in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary removal
and production before a court or officer for the purpose of
being orally examined, may be made as follows : First — By
the court itself in which the action or special proceeding is
pending, unless it be a justice court. Second —By a Judge of
the supreme court or district court where the action or pi-oceeding
is pending, if pending before a justice's court, or before a
Judge or other person out of court. —As amended, Slats. 1881, 85.
Maxwell v. Rites, 11 New 213.
Sec. 3421. Sec. 399. Such order can only be made on motion
of a party upon affidavit, showing the nature of the action or
proceeding, the testimony expected from the witness, and its
materiality. —As amended, Slats. 1881, 85.
Sec. 3422. Sec. 400. If the witness be imprisoned in the
county where the action or proceeding is pending, his pro
duction may, in the discretion of the court or Judge, be required ;
in all other cases his examination, when allowed, shall be taken
upon deposition. —As amended, Stats. 1881, 85.
Maxwell v. Rives. 11 Xev. 213.
Sec. 3423. Sec. 401. Every person who has been in good
faith served with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a
court, Judge, commissioner, referee, or other person, in a case
where the disobedience of the witness may be punished as a
contempt, shall be exonerated from arrest in a civil action while
going to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there,
and returning therefrom.
Sec. 3424. Sec. 402. The arrest of a witness contrary to the
last section shall be void ; but an officer shall not be liable to
the party for making the arrest in ignorance of the facts creat
ing the exoneration, but shall be liable for any subsequent
'Wpntion nf the nMvtv if such vmvrv claim the exemption and
Sec. 3425. Sec. 403. An affidavit to be used before any court,
Judge, or officer of this stute may be taken before any Judge
or Clerk of any court, or any Justice of the Peace or Notary
Public in this state.
Sec. 3426 Sec. 404. An affidavit taken in another state, or in
a territory of the United States, to be used in this state, shall
be taken before a commissioner appointed by the Governor of
this state to take affidavits and depositions in such other state
or territory, or before any Notary Public or Judge of a court of
record having a seal. —As amended, Slain. 1883, 42.
Sec. 3427. Sec. 405. An affidavit taken in a foreign country
to be used in this state shall be taken before an Embassador,
Minister, or Consul of the United Slates, or before any Judge
of a court of record having a seal in such foreign country.
Sec. 3428- Sec 40(5. When an affidavit is taken before a Judge
of a court in another state, or in a territory of the United
States, or in a foreign country, the genuineness of the signature
of the Judge, the existence of the court, and the fact that such
Judge is a member thereof, shall be certified by the Clerk of
the court, under the seal thereof.
CHAPTER 4. —Of depositions taken in this state.
Sec. 3429. Sec. 407. The testimony of a witness in this state
may be taken by deposition in an action at any time after the
service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant, and
in a special proceeding, after a question of fact has arisen there
in, in the following cases : First, when the witness is a party
to the action or proceeding, or a person for whose immediate
benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended ;
second, when the witness resides out of the county in which his
testimony is to be used ; third, when the witness is about to
leave' the county where the action is to be tried, and will probably
continue absent when the testimony is required ; fourth,
when the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is never
theless too infirm to attend, or resides within the county, but
more than fifty miles from the place of trial.
Sec. 3430- Sec 408. Either party may have the deposition of
a witness in this state taken before any Judge or Clerk of a
court, or any Justice of the Peace or Notary Public is this state,
on serving upon the adverse party previous notice of the time
and place of examination, together with a copy of an affidavit
showing that the case is one mentioned in the last section. Atj
in*- +i'Tnrt flnriiijr file fnrrv /Tuva imin^, "lintel v nffpr tho uprvir«*> of
in addition, one day for everv twenty-five miles of the distance
of the place of examination from the residence of the person
upon whom the notice is served, unless, for a cause shown, a
Judge, by order, prescribe a shorter time. When a shorter
time is rnescribed, a copy of the order shall be served with the
notice.
Sec. 3431. Sec. 409. Either party may attend such examin
ation and put such questions, direct and cross, as may be
proper. The deposition, when completed, shall be carefully
read to the witness and corrected by him in any particular, if
desired ; it shall then be subscribed by the witness, certified by
the Judge or officer taking the deposition, inclosed in an
envelope or wrapper, sealed and directed to the Clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, or to such person as the
parties, in writing, may agree upon, and either delivered by the
Judge or officer to the Clerk or such person, or transmitted
through the mail, or by some safe private opportunity ; and
thereupon such deposition may be used by either rjarty upon
the trial or other proceeding against any party giving or receiv
ing the notice, subject to all legal exceptions. But if the parties
attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an inter
rogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated
at the time of the examination. If the deposition be taken by
reason of the absence or intended absence from the county of the
witness, or because he is too infirm to attend, proof by affidavit
or oral testimony shall be made at the trial that the witness
continues absent or infirm, to the best of the deponent's knowl
edge or belief. The deposition thus taken may be also read in
case of the death of the witness
. 3432. Sec 410. When a deposition has been once taken,
it may be read in any stage of the same action or proceeding by
either party, and shall then be deemed the evidence of the
party reading it.
CHAPTER 5. —Of depositions taken out of this state.
Sec. 3433. Skc. 411. The testimony of a witness out of the
state may be taken by deposition in an action at any time after
the service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant,
and in a special proceeding, at any time after a question of fact
has arisen therein.
Sec. 3434. Sec. 412. The deposition of a witness out of this
state shall be taken upon commission issued from the court,
under the seal of the court, upon an order of the Judge or
court, on the application of either party, upon five days' previ
ous notice to the other. It shall be issued to a person agreed
upon by the parties, or, if they do not agree, to any Judge or
Justice of the Peace selected by the officer granting the com
mission or to a Commissioner aT)"riiiitpd '»v t.lm
Sec. 3435. Sec. 413. Such proper interrogatories, direct and
cross, as the respective parties may prepare, to be settled, if ther
parties disagree as to their form, by the Judge or officer grant
ing the order for the commission, at a day fixed in the order,
or at the time of granting the order for commission, may be
annexed to hie commission, or when the parties agree to that
mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories.
Sec. 3436. Sec 414. The commission shall authorize the Coinmissionerto
administer an oath to the witness, and to take his
deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or when the examinatiou
is to be without interrogatories in respect to the ques
tion in dispute, and to certify the deposition to the court, in. a
sealed envelope directed to the Cleric or other person designed
or agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail or other usual
channel of conveyance.
Lot/kiiart v. Markic. '1 Nov. 2D4 ; Blaclde v. Omuii'V, S Nov. 41.
Sec. 3437. Sec. 415. A trial or other proceeding shall not be
postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except uponm
evidence satisfactory to the court that the testimony of the wituess is necessary, and that proper diligence has been used to
obtain it.
CHAPTEK 6. —Of proceedings to perpetuate testimony.
Sec. 3438. Sec. 41G. The testimony of a witness may be taken
and perpetuated as provided in this chapter.
Sec. 3439. Sec. 417. The applicant shall r>resent to a District
Judge a petition verified by the oath of the applicant, stating :
First, that the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a
court in this state, and, in such case, the name or names of the
person or persons whom he expects will be adverse parties ; or,
second, that the proof of some fact or facts is necessary to
perfect the title to property in which he is interested, Or to
establish marriage, descent, heirship, or any other matter which
it may hereafter become material to establish, though no suit
may at the time be anticipated, or, if anticipated, he may not
know the parties to such suit ; and, third, the name of the wit
ness to be examined and his place of residence, and a general
outline of the facts expected to be proved.
Sec. 3440- Sec. 418. The Judge to whom such petition is presented shnll make an order allowing the examination before any
Judge of a court of record, and prescribing the notice to be
given, which notice, if the parties are known and reside in this
state, shall be personally served on them, and if unknown, or
non-residents, such notice shall be served on the Clerk of the
before whom the testimony is ordered to be taken to proceed to
take the testimony of the witnesses named in said petition, upon
the facts therein set forth, and the taking of the same may be
continued from time to time, in the discretion of the Judge.
Sec. 3442. Sec. 420. The examination shall be by question and
answer, unless the parties otherwise agree. The testimony,
when completed, shall be carefully read to and subscribed by
the witness, then certified by the Judge, and immediately there
after filed in the office of the Clerk of the District Court of the
county where it was taken, together with the order for the
examination of the witness, the petition on which the same was
granted, and the proof of service of the notice.
Sec. 3443. Sec 421. The affidavits or other proof filed with
the testimony, or certified copies thereof, shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts stated therein.
Sec. 3444. Sec. 422. If the trial be had between the persons
named in the petition as parties expectant, or their successors
in interest, or between any parties wherein it may be material
to establish the facts which such testimony proves or tends to
prove, upon proof of the death or insanity of the witness, or of
his inability to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness, or
settled infirmity, the testimony, or certified copies thereof, may
be used by either party, subject to all legal objections. But if the
parties' attend at the examination, no objection to the form of
an interrogatory shall be made at the trial unless the same was
stated at the examination.
CHAPTER 7. —Administration of oaths and affirmations.
Sec. 3445. Sec. 423. Every court of this state, every Judge or
Clerk of any court, every Justice of the Peace, and every
Notary Public, and every officer authorized to take testimony,
or to decide upon the evidence in any proceeding, shall have
power to administer oaths or affirmations.
Sec. 3446. Sec. 424. When a person is sworn who believes in
any other than the Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any
such.
Sec. 3447. Sec. 425. Any witness who desires it may, at his
option, instead of taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation
or declaration, by assenting when addressed in the following
form: "You do solemnly affirm that the evidence you shall
give in this issue (or matter), pending between and ,
shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth."
■ affirmation shall be made )>v the answer, " I do."
or a Judge thereof may, upon notice, order either party to give
to the other within a specified time an inspection and copy, or
permission to ta';e a copy of any book, document, or paper in
his possesion, or under his control, containing evidence relating
to the merits of the action, or the defense therein. If compliance
with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book,
document, or paper from being given in evidence, or if wanted
as evidence by the party applying, may direct the jury to pre
sume it to be such as he alleges it to be ; and the court may
also punish the party refusing for a contempt. This section
shall not be construed to prevent a party from compelling
another to produce books, papers, or documents when he is
examined as a witness.
Sec. 3449. Sec. 427. There shall be no evidence of the contents
of a writing, other than the writing itself, except in the
following cases : First— When the original has been lost or
destroyed ; in which case proof of the loss or destruction shall
first be made. Second — When the original is in the possession
of the party against whom the evidence is offered, and he fails
to produce it after reasonable notice. Third —When the original
is a record or other document in the custody of a public officer,
or officer of a corporation. Fourth —When the original has
been recorded and a certified copy of the record is made evidence
by statute. Fifth — When the original consists of numerous
accounts or other documents which cannot be examined in
court without great loss of time, and the evidence sought from
them is only the general result of the whole.
State v. Uhoailos, (i Ser. 35:'.
Sec. 3450. Sec 428. The party producing a writing as genuine, which has been altered, or appears to have been altered
after its execution, in a part material to the question in dispute,
and such alteration is not noted on the writing, shall account
for the appearance or alteration. He may show that the alteration
was made by another without his concurrence, or was made
with the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise prop
erly or innocently made. If he do that, he may give the writing
in evidence, but not otherwise.
Sec. 3451. Sec. 429. A judicial record of this state, or theJ
United States, or of any territory, may be proved by the produc-r
tion of the original, or a copy thereof certified by the Clerk, or
other person having the legal custody thereof, under the seal
of the court, to be a true copy of such record.
Sec. 3432. Sec 4W The records and judicial proceedings of
the courts of any other state of the United States, or of any termay be proved by the production of a copy thereof, certified by
Qjg,.^ ^vitli the seal of the court annexed, if there be a Clerk
and seal, or by the legal keeper of the record, with the seal of
his office annexed, if there be a seal, to be a true copy of such
record, togetfier with a certificate of a Judge of the court, that
the person making the certificate is the Clerk of the court, or
the legal keeper of the record, and in either case that the signa
ture is genuine, and the certificate in due form; and, also, together
with the certificate of the Minister or Embassador of the United
States, or of a Consul of the United States, in sucli foreign
country, that there is such a court, specifying generally the
naiure of its jurisdiction, and verifying the signature of the
Judge and Clerk, or other legal keeper of the record.
Sec. 3454. Sec. 432. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign
country shall also be admissible in evidence upon proof : First —
That the copy offered has been compared by the witness with
the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of it. Sec
ond—That such original was in the custody of the Clerk of the
court or other legal keeper of the same ; and, Third —That the
copy is duly attested by a seal, which is proved to be the seal of
the court where the record remains, if it be the record of a court,
or if there be no such seal, or if it be not a record of a court, by
the signature of the legal keejjer of the original.
Sec. 3455. Sec. 433. Printed copies in volumes of statutes,
code, or other written law, enacted by any other state, or terri
tory, or foreign government, purporting or proved to have been
published by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly
admitted as evidence of the existing law, in the courts and judi
cial tribunals of such state, territory, or government, shall be
admitted by the courts and officers of this state on all occasions
as presumptive evidence of such laws.
Sec. 3456. Sec. 434. A seal of a court or public office, when
required to any writ, or process, or proceeding, or to authenti
cate a copy of any record or document, may be impressed with
wax, wafer, or any other substance, and then attached to the
writ, process, or ]>roceeding, or to the copy of the record or
document, or it may be impressed on the paper alone.
TITLE XII.
Of the writ of certiorari and mandamus.
CHAPTER 1. —The writ of certiorari or review.
Sec. 3457. Sec. 435. The writ of certiorari may be denom
inated the writ of review.
Paul v. Arm-itrnu^. 1 Nov. S2 ; Muynanl v. Railcy, -> Npv. KKS; State
Sec. 3458. Sec. 43(!. This writ may bo granted on application
by any court of this state, except a justice's, or recorder's,
or mayor's court ; the writ shall be granted in all cases when
an inferior tribunal, board, or officer, exercising judicial func
tions, hus exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or
officer, an^l there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the court,
any plain, speedy, and adequate remedy.
Phillips v. Welch, 12 Nev. 138.
Sec. 3459. Sec. 437. The application shall be made on affidavit
by the party beneficially interested, and the court may require a
notice of the application to be given to the adverse party, or
may grant an order to show cause why it should not be allowed,
or may grant the writ without further notice.
Sec. 3460. Sec. 438. The writ may be directed to the inferior
tribunal, board, or officer, or to any other person having the
custody of the record or proceedings to be certified. When
directed to a tribunal, the Clerk, if there be one, shall return
the writ with the transcript required.
Sec. 3461. Sec. 439. The writ of review shall command the
party to whom it is directed to certify fully to the court issuing
the writ, at a specified time and place, and annex to the writ a
transcript of the record and proceeding (describing or referring
to them with convenient certainty), that the same may be
reviewed by the court, and requiring the party, in the mean
time, to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be
reviewed.
Sec. 3462. Sec 440. If a stay of proceedings be not intended
the words requiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ.
These words may be inserted or omitted, in the sound discretion
of the court, but if omitted, the power of the inferior court or
officer shall not be suspended nor the proceedings stayed.
Sec. 3463. Sec. 441. The writ shall be served in the same
manner as a summons in civil action, except when otherwise
expressly directed by the court.
Sec. 3464. Sec. 44'2. The review upon this writ shall not be
extended further than to determine whether the inferior tribu
nal, board, or officer has regularly pursued the authority of such
tribunal, board, or officer.
1'liillips v. Welch, 12 Nev. 138.
Sec. 3463. Sec. 443. If the return to the writ be defective, the
court may order a further return to be made. When a full
ro^'lrn lioci llfinIl in-olo the milll't uh.ill -nrnono/1 fr» liflii- *■!-» a tt,^-w
Sec. 3466. Sec. 444. A copy of the judgment, signed by the
Clerk, shall be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or
officer having the custody of the record or proceeding certi
fied up.
Sec. 3467. Sec. 445. A copy of the judgment, signed by the
Clerk, entered upon or attached to the writ and return, shall
constitute the judgment roll. If the proceedings be had in any
other than the supreme court, an appeal may be taken from the
judgment in the same manner and upon the same terms as from
a judgment in a civil action.
•
CHAPTER 2. —The whit of mandate or mandamus.
Sec. 3468. Sec. 44G. The writ of mandamus may be denomi
nated the writ of mandate.
Curtis v. MeCullough. 3 Xev. 202 ; Hooten v. McKinncy, 5 Xev. 194 ;
McCuire v. Waterman, f> New 323; Treaihvav v. Wright, 1 New
Sec. 111); Klagg v. Trustees Lady Bryan C....4 Nov. UK); Humboldt
County v. Churchill County, 6 New 30; Washoe County Com
missioners v. Hatch, si Xev'. 3.">7; State ex rol. Scars v. Wright. 10
Xev. Iu7 State v.: rel. Piper v. (.iracey, 11 Xev. 223; Floral
Springs Water C>. v. Rives. II Xev. 431; State ex rel. Ah Chew
v. Rising, 1") Xev. 164; A. Man & Co. v. Samuel LiiMle et al.,
County Commissioners. 15 Xev. 271; Iloole v.Kinkoad. 10 Xev.
Sec. 217; Stale ex rel. Commissioners of Storey County v. Kirnian,
Sec. 17 Xev. 3*0; State cx rel. Perry v. County Commissioners of
Eureka county, 18 Xev. 412.
Sec. 3469. Sec 447. It may be issued by any court in this
stute> except a justice's, to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person, to compel the performance of an act which the
law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or
station ; or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a. right or office to which he is entitled, and from
which lie is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal,
corporation, board, or person.
State ex rel. Sears v. Wright, 10 Xev. 107.
Sec. 3470- Sec. 448. This writ shall be issued in all cases
where there is not a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the
ordinary course of law. It shall be issued upon affidavit, on
the application of the party beneficially interested.
Sec. 3471. Sec. 449. The writ shall be either alternative or
peremptory. The alternative writ shall state generally the
allegation against the party to whom it is directed, and com
mand such party, immediately after the receipt of the writ, or
-Him- snpcified time, to do the act required to be r»>r
allowed, the alternative shall be first issued ; but if the applica
tion be upon due notice, and the writ be allowed, the peremptory
may be issued in the first instance. The notice of the applica
tion, when given, shall be at least ten days. The writ shall not
be granted by default. The case shall be heard by the court,
whether the adverse party appear or not.
Sec. 3473. Sec. 451. On the return day of the alternative, or
the day on which the application of the writ is noticed, or such
further day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ
or notice shall have been served may show cause by answer
under oath, made in the same manner as an answer to a com
plaint in a civil action.
Sec. 3474. Sec. 452. If an answer be made, which raises aM
question as to matter of fact essential to the determination of
the motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the parties,
and upon the supposed truth of the allegation of which the
application for the writ is based, the court may, in its discretion,
order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone the
argument until such trial can be had and the verdict certified
to the court. The question to be tried shall be distinctly stated
in the order for trial, and the county shall be designated in
which the same shall be had. The order may also ilivect the
jury to assess any damages which the applicant may have sus
tained, in case they find for him.
Sec. 3475. Sec. 453. On the trial the applicant shall not be
precluded by the answer of any valid objection to its sufficiency,
and may countervail it by proof either in direct denial or by
way of avoidance.
Sec. 3476. Sec. 454. If either party be dissatisfied with the
verdict of the jury, he may move for a new trial upon a state
ment prepared as provided in section one handled and ninetyseven.
The motion for new trial may, upon reasonable notice,
be brought on before the Judge of the court in which the cause
was tried, either in term or vacation. If a new trial be granted,
the jury shall, within five days thereafter, unless the parties
agree on a longer time, be summoned to try the issue. After a
second verdict in favor of the same party, a new trial shall not
be had.
Sec. 3477. Sec. 455. If no notice for a new trial be given, or,
if given, be denied, the Clerk, within five days after the rendi-v<
tion of the verdict, or denial of the motion, shall transmit to the
court in which the application for the writ is pending, a certi
fied copy of the verdict, attached to the order of trial ; after
which either party may bring on the argument of the applica
tion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party.
Sec. 3478. Sec 45G. If no answer be made, the case shall be
heard on the papers of the applicant. If an answer be made
which does not raise a question such as is mentioned in section
four hundred and fifty-two, but only suqh matters as may be
o-nlnir.«;i nr « vr.;/i,,.i ]1V n reidv, the court limy, in its discretion,
raise only questions of law, or put in issue immaterial state
ments, not affecting1 the substantial rights of the parties, the
court shall proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing, the argu
ment of the case.
Sec. 3479- Sec. 457. If judgment be given for the applicant,
he shall recover the damages which he shall have sustained as
found by the jury, or as may be determined by the court or ref
erees, upon a reference to be ordered, together with costs ; and
for such damages and costs an execution may issue, and per
emptory mandate shall also be awarded without delay.
Sec. 3480. Sec. 458. The writ shall bs served in the same
manner as a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise
expressly directed by order| of the court.
Sec. 3481. Sec. 45!). When a peremptory mandate has been
issued and directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board,
or person, if it appear to the court that any member of such
tribunal, corporation, or board, or such person, upon whom
the writ has been personally served, has, without just excuse,
refused or neglected to pay the same, the court may, upon
motion, impose a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars. In
case of persistence in a refusal of obedience, the court may
order the party to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding
three months, and may make any orders necessary and proper
for the complete enforcement of the writ. If a fine be imposed
upon a Judge or officer who draws a salary from the state or
county, a certified copy of the order shall be forwarded to the
Controller or County Treasurer, as the case may be, and the
amount thereof may be retained from the salary of such Judge
or officer. Such Judge or officer, for his willful disobedience,
shall also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in office.
TITLE XIII.
Of contempts and their punishments.
Sec. 3482. Sec. 4G0. The following acts or omissions shall be
(-jeeme(| contempts: First—Disorderly, contemptuous, or inso
lent behavior towards the Judge whilst holding court or en
gaged in his judicial duties at chambers, or towards referees or
arbitrators, while sitting on a reference or arbitration, or other
judicial proceeding. Second — A breach of the peace, boisterous
conduct, or violent disturbance in the presence of the court, or
in its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt the due course of
a trial, or other judicial proceeding Third —Disobedience or
speaking to or in the presence of a juror concerning an action
in which such juror has been empaneled to determine, or in any
manner approaching or interfering with such juror, with the
intent to influence his verdict.
Sec. 3483. Sec. 4G1. When a contempt is committed in the
immediate view and presence of the court or Judge at chambers, it may be punished summarily, for which an order shall
be made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view
ami presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is
thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein
prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in the imme
diate view and presence of the court or Judge at chambers, an
affidavit shall be presented to the court or Judge of the facts
constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the
referees or arbitrators.
Strait v. Williams, is Xev. 430,
Sec. 3484. Sec. 4G2. When the contempt is not committed in
the immediate view and presence of the court or Judge, a warrant
of attachment may be issued to bring the person charged
to answer, or without a previous arrest a warrant of commit
ment may, upon notice, or upon an order to show cause, be
granted ; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued with
out such previous attachment to answer, or such notice or order,
to show cause.
Sec. 3485. Sec. 4G3. Whenever a warrant of attachment is
issued pursuant to this chapter, the court or Judge shall direct,
by an indorsement on such warrant, that the person charged
may be let to bail for his appearance, in an amount to be speci
fied in such indorsement.
3 4-86. Sec. 4<>4. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the Sheriff shall keep the person in custody, bring himsh
before the court or Judge, and detain him until an order be
made in the premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself
to be discharged, ns provided in the next section.
Sec. 3487. Sec. 4C5. When a direction to let the person arrested
to bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or indorsed
thereon, he shall be discharged from the arrest upon executing
and delivering to the officer, at any time before the return day
of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two sufficient sure
ties, to the effect that the person arrested will appear on the
return of the warrant and abide the order of the court or Judge
thereupon ; or they will pay as may be directed the sum speci
fied in the warrant.
Sec. 3488. Sec 4GG. The officer shall return the warrant of
arrest and the undertaking, if any, received by him from the
person arrested, by the return day specified therein.
Sec. 3489. Sec. 4G7. When the person arrested has been
brought up cr appeared, the court or Judge shall proceed toj
investigate the charge, and shall hear any answer which the
person arrested shall make to the same, and may examine witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment may be
had from time to time, if necessary.
Sec. 3490. Sec. 408. Upon the answer and evidence taken,
the court or Judge shall determine whether the person pro
ceeded against is guilty of the contempt charged ; and if it be
adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be im
posed on him not exceeding five hundred dollars, or he may be
imprisoned not exceeding five days, or both.
Sec. 3491. Sec. 4G!). When the contempt consists in the omis
sion to perform an act which is yet in the power of the person
to perform, he may be imprisoned until he have performed it,
and in that ease the act shall be specified in the warrant of
commitment.
Sec. 3492. Sec. 470. Persons proceeded against according to
the provisions of this chapter shall also be liable to indictment
for the same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense, but the
court before which u conviction is had on an indictment, in
passing sentence shall take into consideration the punishment
before inflicted.
Sec. 3493. Seo. 471. When the warrant of arrest has been
returned served, if the person arrested do not appear on the
return day, the court or Judge may issue another warrant of
arrest, or may order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or both.
If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of damages in
the action shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained by
the aggrieved party by reason of the misconduct for which the
warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceeding.
Sec. 3494. Sec. 472. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an officer is required to keep a person arrested on a
warrant of attachment in custody, and to bring him before a
court or Judge, the inability, from illness or otherwise, of the
person to attend, shall be a sufficient excuse for not bringing
him up ; and the officer s'lall not confine a person arrested upon
the warrant in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of personal
liberty, except so far us may be necessary to secure his personal
attendance.
Sec. 3495. Sec. 473. In cases of contempt the punishment
shall be by fine and imprisonment ; but no fine shall exceed
the sum of five hundred dollars, and no imprisonment shall
exceed the period of five days, except as provided in section
four hundred and sixty-nine.
Ex parte Sweeney, is New 74.
TITLE XIV.
Of costs.
Sec. 3496. Sec. 474. The measure and mode of compensation
°f attorneys and counselors shall be left to the agreement.
the prevailing party in any action in the supreme and district
courts, his costs and necessary disbursements, in the action or
special proceeding in the nature of an action.
Sec. 3497. Sec 475. Costs shall be allowed of course to the
plaintifff, upon a judgment in his favor in the following cases ;
First—In an action for the recovery of real property. Second—
In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
when the value of the property amounts to three hundred dol
lars or over, such value shall be determined by the jury, court,
or referee by whom the action is tried. Third—In an action
for the recovery of money or damages, where plaintifff recovers
three hundred dollars or over. Fourth—In a special proceed
ing in the nature of an action.
Sec. 3498. Sec. 47G. When several actions are brought on one
.bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other
instrument in writing, or in any other case for the same cause
of action, against several parties who might have been joined
as defendants in the same action, no costs shall be allowed to
the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which may be at
his election, if the party proceeded against in the other actions
were at the commencement of the previous action- openly within
this state ; but the disbursements of the plaintifff shall be
allowed to him in each action.
Sec. 3499. Sec. 477. Costs shall be allowed of course to the
defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions men-al
tioned in section four hundred and seventy-five, and in a special
proceeding in the nature of an action.
Sec. 3500. Sec 478. In other actions than those mentioned
in section four hundred and seventy-five, costs may be allowed
or not, and if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties,
on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the court ;
but no costs shall be allowed in an action for the recovery of
money or damages when the plaintifff recovers less than three
hundred dollars, nor in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, when the value of the property is less than
three hundred dollars.
Capltf v. Central Pacific R. R. Co., <> N'ev. 205 ; Klein v. AUcnbach,
0 Nov. 139.
Sec. 3501- Sec. 179. When there are several defendants inF
the actions mentioned in section four hundred and seventy-five
not united in interest, and making separate defenses by separate
answers, and the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all,
the court shall award costs to such of the defendants as have
judgment in their favor.
Sec. 3502. Sec 480. In the following cases the costs of an
Sec. 3304. Sec. 482. When an application is made to a court
or referee to postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned
by the postponement may bo imposed, in the discretion of the
court or referee, as a condition of granting .the same.
Sec. 3303. Sec. 483'. When, in an action for the recovery of
monev only, the defendant alleges in his answer that before the
commencement of the action he 'tendered to the plaintifff the full
amount to which he was entitled, and thereupon deposits in
court, for the plaintifff, the amount so tendered, and the allega
tions be found to be true, the plaintifff shall not recover costs,
but shall pay costs to the defendant,
Sec. 3506. Sec. 484. In an action prosecuted or defended by
an eseout°r< administrator, trustee of express trust, Or a person
expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered as in an
action by and against a person prosecuting and defending in
his own right ; but such costs shall, by the judgment, be made
chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party represented,
unless the court shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff
or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in
the action or defense,
Sec. 3507. Seg. 485. When the decision of a court of inferior
jurisdiction in a special proceeding is brought before a court of
higher jurisdiction for a review, in any other way than by
apj)eal, the same costs shall be allowed as in cases on appeal,
and may be collected by execution, or in such manner as the
court may direct, according to the nature of the case.
McFadden v. Ellsworth M. & M. Co., 8 New 57.
Sec. 3508. Sec. 48(3. The party in whose favor judgment is
rendered, and who claims his costs, shall deliver to the Clerk
of the court, witbin two days after the verdict or decision of the
court, a memorandum of the items of his costs and necessary
disbursements in the action or proceeding, which memorandum
shall be verified by the oath of the party or his attorney, stating
that the items are correct, and that the disbursements have been
necessarily incurred in the action or proceeding.
Costs in justices' courts. Section 5,Ki of this Act.
Sholes v. Stead .t Hunt. 2 Nov. 107; Howard v. Richards & Rich
ards, 2 New 1 2S.
Sec. 3509. Sec. 487. The Clerk shall include in the judgment
entered up by him any interest in the verdict or decision of the
court or referee, from the time it was rendered or made, and
the costs, if the same have been taxed or ascertained ; and he
shall, within two days after the same shall be taxed or ascer
tained, if not included in the judgment, insert the same in ar
blank to be left in the judgment for that purpose, and shall
be required by tbe defendant. When required, all proceedings
in the action shall be stayed until an undertaking, executed by
two or more persons, be filed with the Clerk, to the effect that
they will pay such costs and charges as may bo awarded against
the plaintifff by judgment, or in the progress of the action, not
exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars. A new or an addi
tional undertaking may be ordered by the court or Judge upon
proof that the original undertaking is insufficient security, and
proceedings in the action stayed until such new or additional
undertaking be executed and filed.
Sec. 3511. Sec. 489. Each of the sureties on the undertaking
mentioned in the last section shall annex to the same an affidavit
that lie is a resident and householder, or freeholder, within the
county, and is worth double the amount specified in the under
taking, over and above all his just debts and liabilities, exclu
sive of property exempt from execution.
Sec. 3512. Sec. 490. After the lapse of thirty days from the
service of notice that security is required, or of an order for
new or additional security, upon proof thereof, and that no
undertaking as required has been filed, the court or Judge may
order the action to be dismissed.
TITLE XV.
Of motions, orders, notices, service of papers, and miscellaneous
provisions.
Sec. 351 3. Sec. 491. Every direction of a court or Judge made
or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is de
nominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.
Sec. 3514. Sec 492. Motions shall be made in the county in
which the action is brought, or in an adjoiniirg county in the1"
same district.
Sec. 3515. Sec. 493. When a written notice of a motion is
necessary, it shall be given, if the court be held in the same
district where both parties reside, five days before the time
appointed for the hearing, otherwise ten days ; but the court or
Judge may prescribe a shorter time.
Pratt v. Rico. 7 Nov. 123.
Sec. 3516. Sec. 494. When a notice of a motion is given, or
an order to show cause is made returnable before a Judge out
of court, and at the time fixed for the motion, or on the return
day of the order, the Judge is unable to hear the parties, the
matter may be transferred by his order to some other Judge
before whom it might originally have been brought.
Sec. 3517. Sec. 495. Written notices and other papers, when
required to be served' on the party or an attorney, shall be
served in the manner prescribed in the next three sections,
when not otherwise provided ; but nothing in this title shall be
applicable to original or final process, or any proceedings to
bring a party into contempt.

Sec. 3518. Sec. 496. The service may be personal, by delivery
to the party or his attorney, on whom the service is required to
be made, or it may be as follows : First —If upon an attorney,
it may be made during his absence from his office, by leaving
the notice or other papers with his clerk therein, or with a per
son having charge thereof ; or when there is no person in the
office, by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the morn
ing and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the
office ; or if it be not open, so as to admit of such service, then
by leaving them at the attorney's residence, with some person
of suitable age and discretion ; and if his residence be not
known, then by putting the same, inclosed in an envelope, into
the postoffice, directed to such attorney. Second—If upon a
party, it may be made by leaving the notice or other paper at
his residence, between the hours of eight in the morning and
six in the evening, with some person of suitable age and dis
cretion, and if his residence be not known, by putting the same,
inclosed in an envelope, into the postoffice, directed to such
party.
Clark v. Strouse, 11 Xev. 70.
3S19- Sec. 4!)7. Service by mail may be made, when the
person making the service and the person on whom it is to be
made reside at different places, between which there is a regu
lar communication by mail.
Sec. 3520. Sec 498. In case of service by mail, the notice or
other paper shall be deposited in the postoffice, addressed to
the person on whom it is to be served, at his place of residence,
and the postage paid. And in such case the time of service
shall be increased one day for every twenty-five miles distance
between the place of deposit and place of address.
Lyon County v. Washoe County, 8 Nov. 177.
Sec. 3521 . Sec. 499. A defendant shall be deemed to appear
in an action when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff
written notice of his appearance, or when an attorney gives
notice of appearance for him. After appearance, a defendant,
or his attorney, sh^ll be entitled to notice of all subsequent
proceedings of which notice is required to be given. But
where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers
action or proceeding, the service of papers, when required, shall
be upon the attorney instead of the party, except of subpoenas,
of writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of papers to
bring him into contempt,
Sec. 3523. Sec. 501. Successive actions may be maintained
upon the same contract or transaction, whenever after the
former action, a new cause of action arises therefrom.
Sec. 3524. Sec. 502. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time between the same parties, and in the same
court, upon causes of action which might have been joined, the,;
court may order the actions to be consolidated into one.
Sec. 3325. Sec 503. An action maybe brought by one person against another, for the purpose of determining an adverse
claim which the latter makes against the former, for money or
property, upon an alleged obligation ; and also against two or
more persons, for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a
debt due the other, for which the plaintifff is bound as security.
Sec. 3526. Sec 504. The Clerk shall keep among the records
of the court a register of actions. He shall enter therein theac title of the action, with brief notes under it, from time to time,
of all papers filed and proceedings had therein.
Sec. 3327. Sec. 505. When there are three referees, or three
arbitrators, all shall meet, but two of them may do any act
which might be done by all.
Sec. 3528. Sec 500. The time within which an act is to beT
done, as provided in this Act, shall be computed by excluding
the first day and including the last. If the last day be Sunday,
it shall be excluded.

Sec. 3529. Sec. 507. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without
the title of the action or proceeding in which it is made, ora
with a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual for any
purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such action
or proceeding.
Sec. 8330. Sec. 508. When a cause of action has arisen in
another state, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof
an action thereon cannot there be maintained against a person
by reason of the lapse of time, an action thereon shall not bej
maintained against him in this state, except in favor of a citizen
thereof who has held the cause of action from the time it
accrued.
TITLE XVI.
Of proceedings in civil cases in justices' courts.
CHAPTER 1. —Op the parties and the time and place of com
mencing ACTIONS IN JUSU3E9' COURTS.
to parties to actions, shall be applicable to actions of which
a justice's court has jurisdiction. Justices' courts shall have
jurisdiction of the following actions and proceedings : First —
Qf an action arising on contract for the recovery of money
only, if the sum claimed, exclusive of interest, does not exceed
three hundred dollars. Second— Of an action for damages for
injury to the person, or for taking or detaining personal prop
erty, or for injuring real or personal property, if the damages
claimed do not exceed three hundred dollars. Third —Of an
action for a fine, penalty, or forfeiture, not exceeding three
hundred dollars, given by statute or the ordinance of any incor
porated or unincorporated city, town, or village. Fourth — Of
an action upon a bond conditioned for the payment of money
not exceeding three hundred dollars, though the ])enalty exceed
that sum, the judgment to.be given for the sum actually due.
When the payments are to be made by installments, an action
may be brought for each installment as it becomes due. Fifth—
Of an action upon a surety bond or undertaking, though the
penalty exceed, if the amount claimed does not exceed three
hundred dollars. Sixth —Of an action to recover the possession
of personal property, when the value of such property does not
exceed three hundred dollars. Seventh—-To take and enter
judgment on the confession of a defendant, when the amount
confessed does not exceed three hundred dollars. Eighth —Of
actions for the possession of lands and tenements, where the
relation of landlord and tenant exists. Ninth —Of actions when
the possession of lands or tenements has been unlawfully or
fraudulently obtained or withheld, in which case the proceed
ings shall be as prescribed by the Acts upon that subject.
Tenth —Of proceedings respecting vagrants and disorderly
persons. Eleventh—Of suits for the collection of taxes, where
the amount of the tax sued for does not exceed three hundred
dollars. The jurisdiction conferred by this section shall not
extend to a civil action in which the title to real estate or mining
claims, or questions to boundaries of land, are involved, or to
actions to enforce mechanics' liens ; and if questions of title to
real property be involved, cases involving such questions shall
be disposed of as hereafter provided in this Act. The courts
held by Justices of the Peace shall be denominated justices'
courts. They shall have no terms, but shall always be open.
Justices' courts shall be held in their respective townships, pre
cincts, or cities.
Armstrong v. Paul ct al., 1 Nov. 131; Paul v. Armstrong, 1 N'i-v.
Sec. 82; Paul v. Ik'fgan, 1 Nov. ;Sj!7.
Sec. 3532. Sec. 510. Parties in justices' courts may prosecute
or c\efell<i jn person or by attorney ; and any person, on the
ronuost of a narty, may act as his attorney, except that the Conor jury process was served shall
a civil action, in any township, precinct, or city other than the
one in which he resides, except in the cases following : First—
When there shall be no justice court for the township, precinct,
or city in which the defendant may reside, or no Justice com
petent to act in the case. Second —When two or more persons j
jointly, or jointly and severally, bound in debt or contract, or
otherwise jointly liable in the same action, and reside in differ
ent townships, precincts, or cities of the same count}', or in
different counties, the plaintifff may prosecute his action in a
justice court of the township, precinct, or city in which any of
the debtors or other persons liable may reside. Third—In case
of injury to the person, or to real and personal property, the
plaintifff may prosecute his action in the township, precinct, or
city where the injury was committed. Fourth— When personal
property unjustly taken or detained is claimed, or damages therefor are claimed, the plaintifff may bring his action in any town
ship, precinct, or city in which the property may be found, or in
which the property was taken. Fifth — When the defendant is
a non-resident of the county he may be sued in any township,
precinct, or city, wherein he may be found. Sixth—When a
person or jiersons has or have contracted to perform any
obligation or contract at a particular place and resides or reside
in another township, precinct, or city, he or they may be sued
in the township, precinct, or city in which such obligation or
contract is to be performed, or in which he or they reside, and
for the purposes of this Act the township, precinct, or city
where the goods were delivered or money loaned shall be in
tended to mean the place where the obligation is to be per
formed, and where the person or persons may be sued, at the
option of the plaintifff. Seventh—When the foreclosure of a
mortgage or the enforcement of a lien upon real or personal
property is sought by action, the plaintifff may sue in the town
ship, precinct, or city where the property is situated ; provided,
that in the county seat of any county, and also in every incor
porated city, irrespective of the residence of the defendant, and
irrespective of township or precinct lines. —*4s amended, Slats.
Sec. 1871, 103 ; 1885, 123.
Roy v. Whitford, !) Ncv. 370.
Sec. 3534. Sr.c. 512. ' Judgment upon confession may be entered
up in any justice's court in the state specified in the
confession. The provisions of title ten, chapter two, of this
Act, shall apply to such confession, the word "Justice" being
substituted for that of Clerk wherever it may occur.
Scorpion 8. M. Oo. v. Marwino, In Xev. 370.
Sec. 3535. Sec 513. Justices' courts shall have jurisdiction
of an action upon the voluntary appearance of the parties with-Ju
out summons, without regard to their residences, or the place
where the cause of action arose, or the subject matter of the
action may exist.
Sec. 3536. Sec. 514. Actions iu justices' courts shall be com
menced by filing a copy of the account, note, bill, bond, or
instrument upon which the action is brought, or a concise
statement in writing of the cause of action, and the issuance of
a summons thereon, or by the voluntary appearance and plead
ings of the parties without summons. In the latter case the
action shall be deemed commenced at the time of appearance.
Martin v. District Court First Judicial District, 13 Nev. 86.
Sec. 3537. Sue. 515. When a guardian is necessary, he shall
be appointed by the Justice as follows : First—If the infant
be a plaintifff, the appointment shall be made before the sum
mons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of
the age of fourteen years or upwards ; if under that age, upon
the application of some relative or friend. The consent in
writing of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible
for costs, if he fail in the action, shall be first filed with the
Justice. Second —If the infant be defendant, the guardian
shall be appointed at the time the summons is returned, or
before the pleadings. It shall be the right of the infant to
nominate his own guardian,- if the infant be over fourteen years
of age, and the proposed guardian be present and consent in
writing to be appointed ; otherwise the Justice may appoint
any suitable person who gives such consent.
Sec. 3538. Sec. 510. The summons shall be addressed to the
defendant by name, or if his name be unknown, by a fictitious
name, and shall summon him to appear before the Justice at
his office, naming its township, precinct, or city, and at a time
specified therein, to answer the complaint of the plaintifff, for a
cause of action therein described in general terms, sufficient to
apprize the defendant of the nature of the claim against him ;
and in an action for money or damages shall state the amount
for which the plaintifff will take judgment if the defendant fail
to appear and answer. It shall be subscribed by the Justice
before whom it is returnable.
Sec. 3539. Sec 517. The time mentioned in the summons for
the appearance of the defendant and the time of service shall be
as follows : First— When the summons is accompanied with an
order to arrest the defendant, it shall be returnable immedi
ately. Second —When the defendant is a non-resident of the
township or city, or when the plaintifff is a non-resident, it shall
be returnable not more than two days from its date and shall
be served at least one day before the time for appearance, except
in cases where it is to be served by publication, or out of the
state, or by posting notices thereof, when it shall be made
returnable at any time designated by the Justice, not less than
six weeks nor more than four months from its issuance. Third—
In all other cases it shall be returnable in not less than two nor
more than ten days after its date, and shall be served at least
two days before the time for appearance ; provided, that in
cases where an action is brought in an adjoining township,
because there is no Justice in the proper township, it shall be
returnable in not less than five nor more than ten days after its
date. Fourth— When the person on whom the service is to be
made resides out of the state, or has departed from the state, or
cannot, after due diligence, be found within the state or con
ceals himself to avoid the service of summons, or being a corpo
ration or joint stock association, cannot be served as provided
in section twenty-nine, and the fact shall appear by affidavit
to the satisfaction of the Justice, thereof, and it shall in
like manner appear that a cause of action exists against the
defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made,
or that he is a necessary or proper party to the action, such
Justice may grant an order that the service be made by the
publication of the summons. Fifth —The order shall direct
the publication to be made in a newspaper to be designated
by the Justice as most likely to give notice [to~\ the person
to be served, for a period of six weeks, and at least once a
week during said time. In case of publication, where the resi
dence of the non-resident or absent defendant is known, the
Justice shall also direct a copy of the summons and complaint
to be deposited in the postoffice, postage prepaid, directed to
the person or corporation to be served, at residence of such
person or place of business of such corporation. When publi
cation is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons
and complaint out of the state shall be equivalent to publication
and deposit in the postoffice. The service of summons shall be
deemed complete in case of publication at the expiration of six
weeks from the first publication, and in case where a deposit of
a copy of the summons in the postoffice is also required, at the
expiration of six weeks from such deposit ; in action upon con
tracts for the direct payment of money, evidence by writte 11 111strument, the court may, instead of ordering publication,
" , «-, .-,
appoint an attorney to appear and answer tor the non-resident,
absent or concealed defendant, and conduct the proceedings on
bis part ; but in such case where the residence of the defendant
is known, a copy of the summons shall be deposited in the postoffice and addressed to the defendant, as in other cases, and the
attorney so appointed shall not appear until the returned day
named in the summons. — As amended, Stats. 1883, 33 ; 1885, 122.
Sec. 3340. Sec. 518. The summons shall be served by the
Sheriff' or a Constable of the county, or by any male citizen of
the United States over twenty-one years of age, as follows :
First—If the action be against a coloration, by a delivery of a
copy to the President or other head of the corporation, or to the
Secretary, Cashier, or managing agent thereof, or when no such
officer resides in the county, to a Director resident therein.
Second—If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, by
delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to his father, mother,
he resides, or in whose service he is. Third—If against "a
person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable
of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has
been appointed, by delivery of a coin* to such guardian. Fourth
—In nil other cases, by delivery of the copy to the defendant
personally.
3S41. Sec. 510. Sections thirty to thirty-five, both inclufive,
of title three of this Act, are hereby made applicable to
justices' courts, and proceedings therein —the word " Justice "
being inserted wherever the word " Clerk "or " Judge" occurs,
and the word " Constable" inserted wherever the word " Sher
iff" occurs, and the word "complaint,'' whenever it occurs,
being stricken out and disregarded ; provided, that in actions
upon contracts for the payment of money, the Justice may, in
his discretion, instead of ordering publication of summons or
the appointment of an attorney to appear for the defendant,
order the service of the summons to be made by posting copies
thereof in three public places in the township, within one day
after the same is issued.
Sec. 3542. Sec. 520. An order to arrest the defendant may be
indorsed on a summons issued by the Justice, and the defend
ant may be arrested thereon by the Sheriff or Constable at the
time of serving the summons, and brought before the Justice,
and there detained until duly discharged in the following cases,
arising after the passage of this Act : First—In an action for
the recovery of money or damages on a cause of action arising
upon a contract, express or implied, when the defendant is
about to depart from the state, with intent to defraud his cred
itors; or where the action is for the willful injury to the person,
or for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property. Second
—In. an action for a tine or penalty, or for money or property
embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own
use by an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in the course
of his employment as such, or by any other person in a fiduciary
capacity. Third — When the defendant has been guilty of a
frniid in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for
which the action is brought. Fourth —When the defendant has
removed, concealed, or disposed of his property, or is about to
do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
Sec. 3543. Sec. 521. Before an order of arrest shall be made,
the party applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the Justice,
by the affidavit of himself or some other person, the facts on
which the application is founded. The pluntiff shall also exe
cute and deliver to the Justice a written undertaking, with two
or more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover
judgment, the plaintifff will pay to him all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sus"iiim specified in
the order, and if he be absent or unable to try the action, or if it
be made to appear to him by the affidavit of defendant that he
is a material witness in the action, the officer shall immediately
take the defendant before the next Justice of the city, precinct,
or township, who shall take cognizance of the action, and .pro
ceed thereon as if the summons hud been issued and the order
of arrest made by him.
Sec. 3545. Sec. 523. The officer making the arrest shall immediately
give notice thereof to the plaintifff, or his attorney or
agent, and indorse on the summons, and subscribe a certificate,
stating the time of serving the same, the time of the arrest, and
of his giving notice to the plaintifff.
Sec. 3546. Sec. 524. The officer making an arrest shall keep
the defendant in custody until duly discharged by order of the
Justice.
Sec. 3547. Sec. 5*25. The defendant under arrest, on his appearauce
with the officer, may demand a trial immediately; and
upon such demand being made, the trial shall not be delayed
beyond three hours, except by the trial of another action pend
ing at the time,orhe may have an adjournment, and be discharged
on giving bail, as provided in the next section. An adjourn
ment at the request of the plaintifff, beyond three hours, shall
discharge the defendant from arrest ; but the action may pro
ceed notwithstanding, and the defendant shall be subject to
arrest on the execution in the same manner as if he had not
been so discharged.
Sec. 3548. Sec 526. If the defendant, on his appearance, demand
an adjournment, the same shall be granted, on condition
that he execute and file with the Justice an undertal ing, with
two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Justice,
to the effect that he will render himself amenable to the pro
cess of the court during the pendency of the action, and such
as may be issued, to enforce the judgment therein, or that the
sureties will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment
which he may recover in the action. On filing the undertaking
specified in this section, the Justice shall order the defendant
to be discharged from custody.
Sec. 3549. Sec. 527. The following sections of chapter one, title five, of this Act, shall bo applicable to justices' courts and
proceedings therein, to-wit : Eighty to eighty-five, both in
clusive, and the following of chapter two, same title, to-wit :
Ninety -nine to one hundred and two, both inclusive ; one hun
dred and four and one hundred and seven to one hundred and
ten, both inclusive, the word "Justice" being inserted in lieu
of the word " Clerk "or " Judge " wherever either occurs, and
the word " Constable" in lieu of the word " Sheriff;" also sec
tion one hundred and twenty-three to one hundred and fortyfour,
both inclusive, the word " Justice " being inserted in lieu
of the word "Clerk" or "Judge" wherever either occurs;
provided, that the writ of attachment shall be directed to the
Sheriff or any Constable of the county, and may be executed by
the Sheriff or any Constable of the county wherein issued in any part of such county ; and, provided further, that when any personal property shall be attached by a Constable, which shall, at
the time, be held under attachment or execution by the Sheriff
or another Constable of the same county, such last attaching
Constable shall give to the officer previously seizing such prop
erty the same notice required in case of garnishments, and such
officer shall, if the attachment or execution under which such
property was first ta!;en by hini be set aside or satisfied, without
sale of such property, turn the same over to the Constable who
gave the notice, and if such property be sold by the officer first
taking the same under legal process, and sell for more than
sufficient to satisfy the demands of such process, or less than
the whole thereof be sold to satisfy such process, the officer
selling shall deliver the excess of proceeds, or surplus of prop
erty, as the case may be, and to the extent necessary, to the
Constable giving such notice, and the foregoing provisions shall
apply to levy under execution the same as to seizure under
attachment. — An amended, Slats. 1883, 49.
CHAPTER 3.—Pleadings and trial.
Sec. 3550. Sec. 528. The pleadings in justices' courts shall
be : First— The complaint by the plaintifff, stating the cause of
action. Second—The answer by the defendant, stating the
ground of the defense.
Sec. 3551. Sec. 529. The pleadings shall be in waiting, and
verified by the oath of the party, his agent or attorney, when
the action is : First —For the foreclosure of any mortgage or
the enforcement of any lien on real or personal property.
Second—Of actions for the possession of lands or tenements.
Sec. 3532. Sec. 530. When the pleadings are oral, the substance
of them shall be entered by the Justice in his docket ;
when in writing, they shall be filed in his office, and a reference
made to them in the docket. Pleadings shall not be required
to be in any particular form, but shall be such as to enable a
person of common understanding to know what is intended.
Sec. 3553. Sec. 531. The complaint shall state in a plain and
direct manner the facts constituting the cause of action.
Sec. 3554. Sec. 532. The answer may contain a denial of any
of the material facts stated in the complaint which the defendant
believes to be untrue, and also a statement, in a plain and direct
" ' 1 - flpfense or a countermoney only, it shall be sufficient for tlie party to deliver a copy
of the account or instrument to the court, and to state that
there is due to him thereupon from the adverse party a specified
sum which he claims to recover or set off. The court may at
the time of the pleading, require that the original accou-nt or
instrument be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party,
and a copy to be furnished, or if it be not so exhibited and a
copy furnished, may prohibit its being afterwards given in
evidence.
Sec. 3537. Sec. 535. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint,
or file with the Justice at the time of issuing the summons, a
copy of the promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written
obligation for the payilient of money, upon which the action is
brought, the defendant shall be deemed to admit the genuine
ness of the signatures of the makers, indorsers, or assignors
thereof, unless he specifically deny the same in his answer, and
verify the answer by his oath.
Sec. 3558. Sec. 53(i. Either party may object to a pleading of
his adversary, or to any part thereof, that it is not sufficiently
explicit to enable him to understand it, or that it contains no
cause of action or defense, although it be taken as true. If the
court deem the objection well founded, it shall order the plead
ing to be amended, and ii the party refuse to amend, the defect
ive pleading shall be disregarded.
Mitrtin v. District Court First District, Xev. 80.
Sec. 3559- Sec. 537. A variance between the proof on the
trial and the allegations in a pleading shall be disregarded as
immaterial, unless the court be satisfied that the adverse party
has been misled to his prejudice thereby.
Sec. 3560- Seo. 538. The pleadings maybe amended at any
time before the trial, to supply a deficiency or omission, when
by such amendment substantial justice will be promoted. If
the amendment be made after the issue, and it be made to
appear to the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjourn
ment is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The court may,
also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment,
the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the
court, not exceeding twenty dollars, but such payment shall
not be required unless an adjournment is made necessary by
the amendment, nor shall an amendment be allowed after a
witness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby
will be made necessary.
Sec. 3561 . Sec. 539. The parties shall not be at liberty to give
evidence upon any question which involve
showing, on the trial, or from the answer of the defendant,
verified by his oath, that the determination of the action will
necessarily involve either of such questions, the Justice shall
suspend all further proceedings in the action, and certify the
pleadings, or if the pleadings be oral, a transcript of the same,
from his docket to the district court for the county ; and from
the time of filing such pleadings or transcript with the Clerk of
the District Court, such district court shall have over the action
the same jurisdiction us if it were originally commenced therein.
St;ito ex rel. Murpliv v. Rising. 10 Xev. i*7 ; Tull v. Anderson, 15
Nev. 426.
Sec. 3562. Sec. 540. Tf at any time before the trial it appear
*° *"ue satisfaction of the Justice before whom the action is
brought, by affidavit of either party, that such Justice is a
material witness for either party, or if either party make affida
vit that he has reason to believe and does believe that he cannot
have a fair and impartial trial before such Justice, by reason of
the interest, prejudice, or bias of the Justice, on stating the
facts upon which" such belief is founded, the action shall be
transferred to some other Justice of the same or neighboring
township or precinct ; and in case a jury be demanded, and
affidavit of either party is made that he cannot have a fair and
impartial trial, on account of the bias or prejudice of the citi
zens of the township or precinct against him, the action shall
be transferred to some other Justice of the Peace in the county,
but only one transfer shall be allowed to either party. The
Justice to whom an action may be transferred by the provisions
of this section shall have and exercise the same jurisdiction
over the action as if it had been originally commenced before
him. The Justice ordering the transfer of the action to another
Justice shall immediately transmit to the latter, on payment by
the applicant of all Justices' and officers' costs unpaid and due
from him, and the costs of making a copy of the docket for
transmission, all the papers in the action, together with a certi
fied transcript from his docket of the proceedings therein ; pro
vided, that if the applicant shall fail to pay said costs for the
space of one hour, the Justice shall vacate the order changing
the place of trial and proceed to try the cause as though such
order had never been made. The Justice to whom the case is
transferred shall issue a notice stating the time and place when
and where the trial will take place; which notice shall be served
upon the parties by any officer authorized to serve process iu a
justices' court, or by any person specially appointed by the
Justice for that purpose, at least one day before the trial.
Sec. 3563. Sec. 541. The trial may be adjourned by consent
1 ' .... • * ••• ' " . '...i ,xf
and shall show in what respect the testimony expected is material,
and that lie has used due diligence to procure it, and has
been unable to do so. Second—That the part}' asking the ad
journment shall also, if required by the adverse party, consent
that the testimony of any witness of such adverse party who
is in attendance, be then taken by deposition before the Justice,
which shall accordingly be done, and the testimony so taken
may be read on the trial, with the same effect and subject to
the same objections as if the witness were produced. But such
objections shall be made at the time of taking the deposition.
Third—The court may also require the moving party to state,
upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if
the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be
given, and that it bo considered as actually given on the trial,
or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be post
poned.
Sec. 3564. Sec. 542. An adjournment maybe had either at
the time of joining ifjsue or at any subsequent time to which the
case may stand adjourned, on application of either party, for a
longer period than ten days, but not to exceed four months
' from the time of the return day of the summons, upon proof,
by the oath of the party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
Justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before the
time to which he desires an adjournment, for want of material
evidence, particularly describing it, and that the delay has not
been made necessary by any act of negligence on his part since
the action was commenced ; that he has used due diligence to
procure the evidence, and has been unable to do so, and that he
expects to procure the evidence at the time stated by him ; pro
vided, that if the adverse party admit that such evidence would
be given, and consent that it may be considered as given on the
trial, or offered or overruled as improper, the adjournment shall
not be had.
Sec. 3365. Sec. 543. No adjournment shall be granted for a
period longer than ten days, upon the application of either
party, except upon condition that such party file an undertak
ing, with sureties, to be approved by the Justice, to the effect
that they will pay to the opposite party the amount of any judg
ment that may be recovered against the party applying, in the
money or currency claimed in the pleading of the plaintifff.
Sec. 3366. Sec. 544. If the plaintifff fail to appear at thej
return day of the summons, the action shall be dismissed, if
the defendant fail to appear at the return day of the summons,
or if either party fail to attend at a day to which the trial has
been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleading or proof
on his part, the case may nevertheless proceed at the request of
the adverse party, and judgment shall be given in conformity
with the pleadings and proofs.
Sec. 3367. Sec. 545. A trial by jury shall be demanded at the
time of joining issue, and shall be deemed waived if neither
party then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the case
shall be adjourned until a time and place fixed for the return of
the jury. If neither party desire an adjournment, the time and
place shall be determined by the Justice, and shall be on the
same day, or within the next two days. The jury shall be sum
moned upon an order of the Justice, from the citizens of the
city, precinct, or township, and not from the bystanders.
Sec. 3368- Sec. 546. At the time appointed for the trial the
Justice shall proceed to call from the jurors summoned the
names of the persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the
issue. The jury, by consent of the parties, may consist of any
number, not more than twelve nor less than four.
Sec. 3369. Sec. 547. If a sufficient numbei of competent and
indifferent jurors do not attend, the Just'ce shall direct others
to be summoned from the vicinity, and not from the bystanders,
sufficient to complete the jury.
Sec. 3370. Sec. 548. Either party may challenge the jurors.
rrijie c]lanengea slJ;l]i iJe either peremptory or for cause. Each
party shall be entitled to three peremptory' challenges. Either
party may challenge for cause on any grounds set forth in sec
tion one hundred and sixty-four. Challenges for cause shall be
tried by the Justice in a summary manner, who may examiue
the juror challenged, and witnesses.
CHAPTER 4. —Judgment and execution.
Sec. 3371. Sec. 549. Judgment that the action be dismissed
without prejudice to a new action may be entered with costs in
the following cases : First— When the plaintifff voluntarily dis
misses the action before it is finally submitted. Second — When
he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or upon
adjournment, or within one hour thereafter. Third— When it
is objected at the trial and appears by the evidence that the
action is brought in the wrong county, township, city, or pre
cinct ; but if the objection be taken and overruled, it shall be
cause only of reversal on appeal, and shall not otherwise inval
idate the judgment ; if not taken at the trial, it shall bo deemed
waived, and shall not be cause of reversal,
Sec. 3572. Sec. 550. When the defendant fails to appear and
answer, judgment shall be given for the plaintifff as follows:
First —When a copy of the account, note, bill, or other obliga
tion upon which the action is brought was filed with the Justice
at the time the summons was issued, judgment shall be given
without further evidence, for the sum specified in the summons.
Second—In other cases, the Justice shall hear the evidence of
the uliiintiff. and render iudement for such sum onlv as shall
Sec. 3374. Sec. 552. Upon a verdict the Justice shall imrnediately
render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the
Justice, judgment shall be entered immediately after the close
of the trial, if the defendant has been arrested and is still in
custody. In other cases it shall be entered within four days
after the close of the trial. If the action be on contract against
two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or
more, but not on all, the judgment shall be entered up only
against those who were served or have voluntarily appeared,
if the contract be a several or a joint and several contract ; but
if the contract be a joint contract only, the judgment shall be
entered up against all the defendants, but shall only be enforced
against the joint property of all and the individual property of
the defendants served or who have voluntarily appeared in the
action. In an action on a contract or obligation for the direct
payment of money, made payable in a specified or agreed kind
of money or currency, judgment for the plaintifff, whether the
same be by default or after verdict or decision of the court,
shall follow the contract or obligation, and be made payable in
the kind of money or currency specified therein or agreed
thereby.
Fujritt v. Cox, 2 Xcv. 370.
Sec. 3373. Sec 553. Wlien the amount found due to either
party exceeds the sum for which the Justice is authorized to
enter judgment, such party may remit the excess, and judgment
may be rendered for the residue.
Sec. 3376. Sec. 554. If the defendant, at any time before the
trial, offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against
him for a specified sum, the plaintifff may immediately have
judgment therefore, with the costs then accrued ; but if he do
not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the
action a sum equal to the offer, he shall not recover costs, but
costs shall be adjudged against him, and, if he recover, deduct
from his recovery. But the offer and failure to accept it shall
not be given in evidence to affect the recovery otherwise than
as to costs, as above provided.
Sec. 3377. Sec. 555. When a judgment is rendered in a case
where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment
thereon, it shall be so stated in the judgment and entered in
the docket.
Sec. 3378. Sec. 55G. When the prevailing party is entitled to
costs by this chapter, the Justice shall add their amount to the
verdict, or in case of a failure of the plaintifff to recover, or in
case of a dismissal of the action, shall enter up judgment in
favor of defendant for the amount of such costs.
Sec. 3379. Sec. 557. The Justice, on demand of the party in
whose favor judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcript
thereof, which may be filed and docketed in the office of the
Clerk of the District Court for the count}- where the judgment
was rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by the
Clerk shall be noted by him thereon and entered in the docket,
and from that time executions may be issued by the Clerk on
such judgments, to the Sheriff of any other county of the state,
in the same manner as upon judgments recovered in the higher
courts. All process upon judgments recovered in justices'
courts, to be executed within the same county, shall be issued
by the Justice or his successors in office. No judgment ren
dered by a Justice of the' Peace shall create any lien upon any
lands of the defendant, unless a transcript of such judgment,
certified by the Justice, be filed and recorded iu the office of
the County ltecorder. When such transcript is to be filed in
any other county than that in which the Justice resides, such
transcript shall be accompanied with a certificate of the County
Clerk as to the official character of the Justice. When so filed
and recorded in the office of the Recorder for any county, such
judgment shall constitute a lien upon and bind the lands and
tenements of the judgment debtor, situated in the county where
the transcript may be filed and recorded in favor of such judg
ment creditor, us if such judgment had been rendered in the
district court for such county.
Sec. 3380. Sec. 558. Execution for the enforcement of a judg
ment in a justice's court may be issued on the application of the
party entitled thereto, at any time within five years from the
entry of judgment.
Sec. 3381. Sec. 559. The execution, when issued by a Justice,
shall be directed to the Sheriff or to a Constable of the county,
and subscribed by the Justice by whom the judgment was ren
dered, or by his successor in office. It shall intelligibly refer
to the judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and the
name of the Justice before whom, and of the county and the
township or city where, and the time when it was rendered, the
amount of judgment, if it be for money, and the kind of money
or currency in which it is payable, and if less than the whole
is due, the true amount due thereon. It shall contain, in like
cases, similar directions to the Sheriff or Constable as are re
quired by the provisions of title seven of this Act, in an execu
tion to the Sheriff.
Sec. 3382. Sec. 500. The Sheriff or Constable to whom the
execution is directed shall proceed to execute the same in the
same manner as the Sheriff is required by the provisions of title
seven of this Act to proceed upon executions directed to him ;
and the Constable, when the execution is directed to him, shall
be vested, for that purpose, with all the powers of the Sheriff.
And sections two hundred and fourteen, two hundred and fif
teen, and from two hundred and seventeen to two hundred and
thirty-six, both inclusive, and two hundred and thirty -eight and
imposed upon the Sheriff; provided, that the words "in an
amount exceeding fifty dollars," in section two hundred and
forty-three, shall be deemed omitted ; provided further, that sales
of real property shall be made at or upon the property sold.
CHAPTER 5.—General provisions.
Sec. 3583. Sec. 561. Those provisions of this Act which are
referred to in this title, and no other, shall, in addition to the
provisions embraced in this title, be applicable to justices'
courts and proceedings therein.
Sec. 3384. Sec. 562. Every Justice shall keep a book denorrr
inated a "docket," in which he shall enter: First—The title
of every action or proceeding. Second—The object of the
action or proceeding ; and if a sum of money be claimed, the
amount of the demand. Third —The date of the summons and
the time of its return ; and if an order to arrest the defendant
be made, or a writ of attachment be issued, a statement of
these facts. Fourth—The time when the parties, or either of
them, appear, or their non-appearance, if default be made ; a
minute of the pleadings and motions, if in writing, referring to
them ; if not in writing, a concise statement of the material
parts of the pleading, and of all motions made during the trial
by either party, and his decisions thereon. Fifth —Every
adjournment, stating on whose application, whether on oath,
evidence, or consent, and to what time. Sixth —The demand
for a trial by jury, when the same is made, and by whom made,
the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial and
return of the jury. Seventh—The names of the jury who
appear and are sworn ; the names of all witnesses sworn, and
at whose request. Eighth —The verdict of the jury, and when
received ; if the jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of
such disagreement and discharge. Ninth —The judgment of
the court, specifying the costs included, and the time when
rendered. Tenth —The issuing of execution, when issued, and
to whom ; the renewals thereof, if any, and when made, and a
statement of any money paid to the Justice, and when and
by whom. Eleventh The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any
be given, and of the appeal bond, if any be filed, and of the
making and delivery of a transcript of his judgment or docket.
Scorpion S. M. Co. v. Marsnnn, 10 Xcv. 370; Martin v. District
Court, First Judicial District, 13 Xcv. 86.
Sec. 3385. Sec. 563. The several particulars of the last section
specified shall be entered under the title of the action to which
they relate, and at the time when they occur. Such entries in
a Justice's docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the
Justice or his successor in office, shall be primary evidence to
prove the facts so stated therein.
Sec. 3386. Sec 5G4. A Justice shall keep an alphabetical
index to his docket, in which shall be entered the names of the
parties to each judgment, with a reference to the page of entry.
The names of the plaintifffs shall be entered in the index, in the
alphabetical order of the first letter of the family names.
Sec. 3587. Sec. 5G5. It shall be the duty of every Justice,
upon the expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his suc
cessor his official dockets, as well his own as those of his prede
cessors, which may be in his custody, to keep as public records.
If the office of a Justice become vacant by his death or removal
from the township, precinct, or city, or otherwise, before his
successor is elected and qualified, the dockets in possession of
such Justice shall be deposited with the Count}' Clerk of the
county, to be by him delivered to the successor in office of the
Justice.
Sec. 3588. Sec. 5GG. Any Justice with whom the docket of his
predecessors is deposited, may issue execution or other process,
upon a judgment there entered and unsatisfied in the same man
ner and with the same effect as the Justice by whom the judg
ment was entered might have done. In case of the creation of
a new county or the change of the boundary between two
counties, any Justice into whose hands the docket of a Justice
formerly acting as such within the same territory may come,
shall for the purposes of this section be considered the successor
of said former Justice.
Sec. 3589. S::o. 5G7. The Justice elected or appointed to fill
a vacancy shall be deemed the successor of the Justice whose
office became vacant before the expiration of a full term. When
a full term expires, the same or another person elected to take
the office in the same township, precinct, or city from that time
shall be deemed the successor.
Sec. 3590- Sec. 568. When two or more Justices are equally
entitled, under the last section, to be deemed the successors in
office of a Justice, the Judge of a district court for the county
shall, by a certificate subscribed by him and filed in the office
of the County Clerk, designate which Justice shall be the suc
cessor of a Justice going out of office, or whose office has
become vacant.
Sec. 3591. Sec 5G9. The summons, execution, and every other
paper made or issued by a Justice, except a subpoena, shall be
filled up without a blank left to be filled by another, otherwise
it shall be void.
Sec. 3592. Sec 570. In case of the sickness, or other dis
ability, or necessary absence of a Justice on a return day of a
summons, or at the time appointed for a trial, another Justice
of the same county or city may, at his request, attend in his
behalf, and shall thereupon become vested with the power, for
the time being, of the Justice before whom the summons was
returnable. In that case the proper entry of the proceedings
:'i<* hv him, shall be made
party , and on being satisfied that it is expedient , specially
depute any discreet person of suitable age, and not interested
in the action, to serve a summons or execution with or without
an order to arrest the defendant, or with or without a writ of
attachment. The said Justice shall be liable on his official bond
for all official acts of the person so deputed. Such deputation
shall be in writing on the process.
Sec. 3394. Sec. 572. The person deputed shall have the authority
of a Constable in relation to the service, execution, and
return of such process, and shall be subject to the same obliga
tion.
Sec. 3593- Sec 573. A Constable, notwithstanding the expiration
of his term of office, may proceed and complete the
execution of all final process which he has begun to execute in
the same manner as if he still continued in office, and his sure
ties shall be liable to the same extent.
Sec. 3396. Sec. 574. A Justice may punish as for contempt
persons guilty of the following acts, and no other : First—Dis
orderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward the Justice
while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of
a trial or other judicial proceeding. Second—A breach of the
peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance in the presence
of the Justice or in the immediate vicinity of the court held by
him, tending to interrupt the due course of trial or other
judicial proceedings. Third—Disobedience or resistance to the
execution of a lawful order or process, made or issued by him.
Fourth—Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or refusing to
be sworn or answer as a witness. Fifth—Rescuing any person
or property in the custody of an officer by virtue of an order or
process of the court held by him.
Sec. 3597. Sec. 575. When a contempt is committed in the
immediate view and presence of the Justice, it may be punished
summarily, for which an order shall be made reciting the facts,
as occurring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging
that the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of a con
tempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When
the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and pres
ence of the Justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued by such
Justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and
brought before the Justice immediately, when an opportunity
to be heard in his defense or excuse shall be given. The Justice
may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the offense.
A Justice may punish for contempts by fine or imprisonment,
or both ; such tine not to exceed in any case one hundred dol
lars, and such imprisonment one day.
Sec. 3598. Sec. 570. The conviction, specifying particularly
the offense and the judgment thereon, shall be entered by the
Justice in his docket.
Sec. 3599. Sec 577. Justices of the Peace may issue subpoenas
in any action or proceeding in the courts held by them,
and final process on any judgment recovered therein, to any part of the county. A Justice of the Peace may issue a summons
to any person a resident of his township, precinct, or city,
to appear before him at his office to act as interpreter in any
action or proceeding in his court. Such summons shall be
served and returned in like manner as a subpoena issued by a
Justice. Any person so summoned shall, for a failure to attend
at the time and place named in the summons, be deemed guilty
of a contempt, and may be punished accordingly.
Sec. 3600. Sec. 578. Justices of the Peace may issue commis
sions to take the depositions of witnesses out of this state, and
settle interrogatories to be annexed thereto, and direct the man
ner in which the commissions shall be returned. The provisions
of title eleven of this Act, so far as the same are consistent with
the jurisdiction and powers of justices' courts, shall be applica
ble to justices' courts and to actions and proceedings therein,
the word " Justice" being deemed inserted in lieu of " Clerk "
and " Judge," wherever the same occurs.
Sec. 3601. Sec. 579. A now trial .may be granted by the Jus
tice, on motion, within ten days after the entry of judgment,
for any of the following cases : First, accident or surprise,
which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against ;
second, excessive damages, appearing to have been given under
the influence of passion ; or, third, insufficiency of the evidence
to justify the verdict or other decision ; fourth, newly discovered
evidence material for the party making the application, which
he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and
produced at the time.
Sec. 3602. Sec. 580. The application shall be made upon
affidavit and notice. The affidavit shall be filed with the Jus
tice, with a statement of the grounds upon which the party
intends to rely. The adverse party may use counter affidavits
on the motion, provided they be riled one day previous to the
hearing of the motion.
Sec. 3603. Sec. 581. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment
rendered in a justice's court, may appeal therefrom to the dis
trict court for the county any time within thirty days after the
rendering of judgment. The appeal shall be taken by tiling a
notice with the Justice, and serving a copy on the adverse party.
Sec. 3604. Sec. 582. All causes appealed to the district court
shall be tried anew in said court, and said court may regulate
by rule the practice in such cases in all respects not provided
for by statute ; provided, that the appellant shall in no case
recover from respondent the cost incurred on appeal, unless he
recover in the district court a judgment more favorable to him
self tlian the judgment appealed from ; but shall, unless he
recover in the district court a judgment more favorable to him
the appellant for the amount of his costs so incurred ; provided,
that whenever the Judge of the appellate court shall be satisfied
from the evidence that the appellant had reasonable grounds
for his appeal, and that such appeal was taken in good faith,
for the sole purpose of promoting the ends of justice, such
Judge may then order such costs to be taxed against the
respondent, or may apportion the costs between the parties in
such manner as will be just. —As amended, S/uls. 1873, 101.
Sec. 3603. Sec. 583. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and j
on payment of the fees of the Justice and tiling an undertaking, t
as required in the next section, the Justice shall, within five
days, securely attach to a certified copy of his docket all the
papers filed in the cause, together with the notice of appeal and
undertaking filed, and transmit the same to the Cleri of the
District Court. The certified copy of the docket, the papers,
notice and undertaking, attached together as aforesaid, shall be
the transcript on appeal, and the Clerk of the District Court
shall file such transcript on payment of the fees therefore. The
Justice may be compelled by the district court by an order D
entered on motion to transmit such transcript to said Clerk, J
and may be fined for neglect or refusal to transmit the same.
A certified copy of such order may be served on the Justice by
the party or his attorney. In the district court either party
shall have the benefit of all legal objections made in the justice's
court. — As amended, Slats. 1881, 40.
Mr-Donald v. Prescott it Clark, 2 Nev. 100; Martin v. District
.Court, First Judicial District, 13 New SO; Mavberrv v. Dowki-r,
Sec. 14 N'ev. 336.
Sec. 3306. Sec. 584. An appeal from a justice's court shall
not be effectual for any purpose unless an undertaking be filed,
within five days after filing the notice of appeal, with two or
more sureties, in the sum of one hundred dollars, in gold coin
of the United States, for the payment of the costs on the appeal,
or if a stay of proceedings be claimed, in a sum equal to
twice the amount of the judgment, including costs, when the
judgment is for the payment of money, or twice the value of
the property, including costs, when the judgment is for the
recovery of specific personal property, and shall be to the effect,
when the action is for the recovery of money, that the appel
lant will pay the amount of the judgment appealed from, and
all costs, if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount
of any judgment, and all costs that may be recovered against
him in said action in the district court. When the action is for
the recovery of specific personal property, the undertaking
shall be to the effect that the appellant will pay the judgment
and costs appealed from, and obey the order of the court made
therein, if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or will pay
the amount of any judgment and costs which may be recovered
against him in said action in the district court, and will obey
fied in the undertaking', over and above all their just debts and
liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution. The
adverse party may, however, except to the sufficiency of the
sureties, within two days after the filing of the undertaking ;
and unless they and other sureties justify before the Justice
from whose court the appeal is taken, within two days there
after, upon notice to the adverse party, the appeal shall be re
garded as if no undertaking had been given. A deposit of the
amount of judgment appealed from, including all costs, or of
the value of the property, and all costs, in actions for the re
covery of specific personal property, with the Justice, shall be
equivalent to the filing of the undertaking in this section men
tioned ; and in such cases the Justice shall transmit the money
to the Clerk of the District Court, to be by him paid out on the
order of the court ; and all such undertakings shall be made
payable in the currency in which the judgment appealed from
is payable.
3(307. Sec. 585. If an execution be issued on the filing
of the undertaking, staying all proceedings, the Justice shall,
by order, direct the officer to stay all proceedings on the same.
Such officer shall, upon payment of his fees for services ren
dered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property levied
upon, and deliver the same to the judgment debtor, together
with all monies collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees
be not paid, the officer may retain so much- of the property or
proceeds thereof as may be necessary to pay the same.
Sec. 3608. Sec. 58ti. Costs and necessary disbursements in
the action shall be allowed to the prevailing party in a justice's
court. The party in whose favor a judgment is rendered, and
who claims his costs, shall file with the Justice, within two days
after the verdict or decision of the court, a memorandum of
the items of his costs and necessary disbursements in the action
or proceeding, which shall be verified as prescribed in section
four hundred and eighty -six.
Sec. 3609. Sec 587. Justices of the Peace shall receive from
the Sheriff or Constables of their county all monies collected
on any process or order issued by their courts respectively, and
all monies paid to them in their official capacity, and shall pay
the same over to the parties entitled or authorized to receive
them, without delay. For a violation of this section they may
be removed from their office, and shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
Sec. 3610. Sec. 588. Justices of the Peace may in all cases
require a deposit of money, or an undertaking, as security for
costs of court, before issuing a summons.
Sec. 3611. Sec. 580. The provisions of chapter one, title ten,
Sec. 3612. Sec. 590. The supreme court may make rules not
inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the state, for its
own government and the government of the district courts ;
but such rules shall not be in force until thirty days after their
adoption and publication.
Gaudcttc v. Hoedcr, 13 Nov. 341.
Sec. 3613. Sec. 591. If an action be brought against a Sheriff
for an act done by virtue of his office, and he give written
notice thereof to the sureties on any bond of indemnity received
by him, the judgment recovered therein shall be conclusive
evidence of his right to recover against such sureties, and thej
court or Judge in vacation, may, on motion, upon notice of five
days, order judgment to be entered up against them for the
amount so recovered, including costs.
Sec. 3614. Sec. 592. Words used in this Act in the present
tense shall be deemed to include the future as well as the pres-ex
ent ; words used in the singular number shall be deemed to
include the plural, and the plural the singular ; writing shall be
deemed to include printing or printed paper ; oath to include
affirmation or declaration ; signature or subscription to include
mark w'len the person cannot write, his name being written
near it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own name as
a witness; the words "real estate," or "real property," to
include mining claims. Whenever the word " territory" shall
be used, it shall be held to include and apply to the District of
Columbia.
Sec. 3613. Sec. 593. In all cases where an undertaking with
sureties is required by the provisions of said Act, the Judge,
Justice, or Clerk, or other officer taking the same, shall, unless
it is otherwise provided in said Act, require the sureties to
accompany the same with an affidavit that they are each worth
the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all their
just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from ex
ecution ; provided, that when the amount specified in an under
taking exceeds three thousand dollars, and there are more than
two sureties thereon, they may state in their affidavits that they
are severally worth amounts less than that expressed in the
undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of two
sufficient sureties.
Sec. 3616. Sec. 594. Writs of certiorari and mandamus may
be issued in the cases prescribed by said Act, by a Judge of the
supreme court or district court iu vacations, and may, in the
discretion of the Judge issuing the writ, be made returnable,
and a hearing may be had on the return thereof in vacation.
Sec. 3617. Seo. 595. Whenever property has been taken by
an officer under a writ of attachment, in pursuance of the pro
visions of said Act, and it shall be made to appear satisfactorily
to the court, or a Judge thereof, that the interests of the parties
to the action will be sustained by the sale thereof, the court or
Judge may order such property to be sold, in the same manner
as property is sold under an execution, and the proceeds to be
deposited in court to abide the judgment in the action. Such
order shall be made only upon notice to the adverse party, or
his attorney, in case such party has been personally served with
a summons in the action.
Sec. 3618. Sec. 59G. A copy of any record, document, or
paper in the custody of a public officer of this state, or of the
United States, within this state, certified under the official seal,
or verified by the oath of such officer to be a true, full, and cor
rect copy of the original in his custody, may be read in evi
dence in any action or proceeding in the courts of this state, in
like manner and with the like effect as the original could be if
produced.
Sec. 3619. Sec 597. When two or more persons, associated
in any business, transact such business under a common name,
whether it comprises the names of such persons or not, the
associates may be sued by such common name, the summons in
such cases being served on one or more of the associates, but
the judgment in such case shall bind only the joint property of
the associates.
Martin v. District Court, First Judicial District, 13 Nev. 80.
Sec. 3620- Sec. 598. A defendant against whom an action is
pending upon a contract, or for specific personal property, may,
at any time before answer, upon affidavit that a person not a
party to the action makes against him, and without any collu
sion with him, a demand upon the same contract, or for the
same property, upon due notice to such person, and the adverse
party, apply to the" court for an order to substitute such person
in his place, and discharge him from liability to either party,
on his depositing in court the amount claimed on the contract,
or delivering the property, or its value, to such person as the
court may direct ; and the court may, in its discretion, make
the order.
Sec. 3621. Sec 599. Any person shall be entitled to intervene
in an action who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in
the success of either of the parties to the action, or an interest
acainst both. An intervention takes i)lace when a third person
Sec. 3622. Sec. GOO. A third person may intervene either
before or after issue has been joined in the cause.
Sec. 3623. Sec. G01. The intervention shall be by petition or
complaint filed in the court in which the action is pending', andfo
it must set forth the grounds on which the intervention rests.
A copy of the petition or complaint shall be served upon the
party or parties to action against whom anything is demanded,
who shall answer it as if it were an original complaint in the
action.
Sec. 3624. Sec. G02. The court shall determine upon the
intervention at the same time that the action is decided ; if the
claim of the party intervening is not sustained he shall pay all
costs incurred by the intervention.
Sec. 3623. Sec G03. No action to obtain a discovery under
oath, in aid of the prosecution or defense of another action or
proceeding, shall be allowed.
Sec. 3626. Sec. G04. In all cases not otherwise provided for
in this Act, where sureties are required to justify, the}- shall
appear before the officer or person authorized to take the justi
fication, and may be examined under oath by such officer or
person and the adverse party, touching their qualifications as
sureties, which examination shall be reduced to writing and
subscribed by the sureties if required. If, upon such examination, it shall appear to such officer or person that said sureties,
or either of them, have the necessary qualifications of such, he
shall so indorse upon the statement, and cause the same to be
filed, and thereupon the justification shall be complete.
Sec. 3627. Sec. G05. Nothing in this Act shall be construed
to interfere with or affect any of the provisions of an Act enti-iu
tied "An Act to establish the financial transactions of this state
upon a coin basis," approved February fecond, eighteen hun
dred and sixty-nine ; but the public debts therein mentioned
shall be paid in the currency prescribed by said Act.
Sec. 3628. Sec. GOG. An Act of the legislature of the late territory
of Nevada, entitled "An Act to regulate proceedings in
civil cases in the courts of justice of the territory of Nevada,"
passed November twenty-ninth, eighteen hundred and sixtyone
; and an Act of said legislature entitled "An act to amend
an Act to regulate proceedings in the courts of justice in this
territory," passed February twentieth, eighteen hundred and
sixty-four ; and all Acts and parts of Acts amendatory of or
supplementary to said Act of November twenty-ninth, eighteen
hundred and sixty-one, and "An Act to regulate the civil juris
diction and practice in justices' courts, and to consolidate into
one Act former provisions on the subject," approved February
twenty-sixth, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, and all Acts and
parts of Acts in conflict with this Act, are hereby repealed, but
such repeal shall not invalidate any judgment rendered, or
order made, or any proceedings already taken by virtue of said
Acts or parts of Acts.
Sec. 3629. Section 1. Civil actions can only be commenced
within the periods prescribed in this Act, after the cause of
action shall have accrued, except where a different limitation is
prescribed by statute.
State v. Yellow Jacket S. M. Co., 14 Xev. 220.
Sec. 3630. Sec. 2. When the cause of action has already
accrued, the party entitled, and those claiming under him, shall
have, after the passage of this Act, the whole period herein pre
scribed, in which to commence an action.
Wheeler v. Schad, 7 Nov. 204.
Sec. 3631. Sec. 3. The State of Nevada will not sue any per
son for, or in respect to, any real property, or the issues or
profits thereof, by reason of the right or title of the state to
the same, unless : First, such right or title shall have accrued
within ten years before any action or other proceeding for the
same ; or, unless, second, the state, or those from whom it
claims, shall have received the rents and profits of such real
property, or of some part thereof within the space of ten
years. — As amended, Stats. 1807, 85.
Sec. 3632. Sec. 4. No action for the recovery of mining claims,
or for the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be main
tained, unless it appear that the plaintifff, or those through or
from whom he claims, were seized or possessed of such mining
claim, or were the owners thereof, according to the laws and
customs of the district embracing the same, within two years
before the commencement of such action. Occupation and
adverse possession of a mining claim shall consist in holding and
working the same, in the usual and customary mode of holding
and working similar claims in the vicinity thereof. All the
provisions of this Act, which apply to other real estate, so far
as applicable, shall be deemed to include and apply to mining
claims ; provided, that in such application "two years" shall be
held to be the period intended whenever the term "five years"
is used ; and, provided further, that when the terms "legal title'
or "title" are used, they shall be held to include title acquired
by location or occupation, according to the usages, laws, and
customs of the district embracing the claim. —As amended, Stats.
Sec. 1867, 85.
The 120 Mining Co. v. Bullion Mining Co., 9 Xev. 240; Abcruathie
v. (.'on. Virginia Mining Co., 10 Xev. 201.
Sec. 3633. Sec. 5. No cause of action, or defense to an action,
foun(je(j upon the title to real property, or to rents, or to
services out of the same, shall be effectual, unless it appear that
made, or the ancestor, predecessor, or grantor of such person,
was seized or possessed of the premises in question within five
years before the committing of the act m respect to which said
action is prosecuted or defense made. —As amended, Stats.
Sec. 18G7, 85.
Sec. 3634. Sec. G. No peaceable entry upon real estate shall be
deemed sufficient and valid as a claim, unless an action be com-en
menced by the plaintifff for possession within one year from the
making of such entry, or within five years from the time when
the right to bring such action accrued.-—As amended, Slats.
Sec. 1867, 8G.
Sec. 3635. Sec 7. In every action for the recovery of real
property, or the possession thereof, the person establishing a
legal title to the premises shall be presumed to have been
possessed thereof, within the time prescribed by law ; and the
occupation of such premises by any other person shall be
deemed to have been under, and in subordination to, the legal title, unless it appear that such premises have been held and
possessed adversely to such legal title for live years before the
commencement of such action.
Gottxehall et al. v. Melsinji et al., 2 New 185; Ilenrv v. Confidence
(}. & S. M. Co., 1 New fili); Bullion Mining' I'o.'v. The Ora-nis
(i. & S. Co., 2 Xev. 16s; Read v. EM ward* et al., 2 New 2o2;
Alcalda v. Morales. 3 New i:{2 : Mackie v. Lansing. 2 New 302;
Trcadwuy v. Wilder, 12 New 103.
Sec. 3636. Sec. 8. Whenever it shall appear that the occupant,
or those under whom he claims, entered into the possession of
premises, under claim of title, exclusive of any other right,
founding such claim upon a written instrument, as being a con
veyance of the premises in question, or upon the decree or
judgment of a competent court, and that there has been a con
tinued occupation and possession of the premises included in
such instrument, decree, or judgment, or of some part of such
premises, under such claim, for five years, the premises so in
cluded shall be deemed to have been held adversely, except that
where the premises so included consist of a tract divided into
lots, the possession of one lot shall not be deemed a possession
of any other lot of the same tract.
Sec. 3637. Sec. 9. For the purpose of constituting an adverse
possession by any person claiming a title founded upon a written
instrument, or judgment, or decree, land shall be deemed
to have been possessed and occupied in the following cases :
First— Where it has been usually cultivated and improved.
Second — Where it has been protected by a substantial iuclosure.
Third—Where (though not inclosed) it has been used for the
supply of fuel, or of fencing timber, for the purposes of hus
bandry; or for the use of pasturage, or for the ordinary uses of
the occupant. Fourth—Where a known lot, or single farm, not
exceeding three hundred and twenty acres in extent, has been
partly improved, the portion of such farm or lot that may have
been left not cleared, or not inclosed, according to the usual
course and custom of the adjoining- country, shall be deemed to
have been occupied for the same length of time as the part
improved and cultivated.
Sec. 3638. Sec. 10. Where it shall appear that there has been
an actual continued occupation of premises, under a claim of title, exclusive of any other rig-ht, but not founded upon a
written instrument, or a judgment, or decree, the premises so
actually occupied, and no other, shall be deemed to have been
held adversely.
Sec. 3639. Sec. 11. For the purpose of constituting an adverse
possession, by a person claiming title, not founded upon a writ
ten instrument, judgment, or decree, land shall be deemed to
have been possessed and occupied in the following cases only :
First —Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
Second — Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
Sec. 3640. Sec. 12. Whenever the relation of landlord and
tenant shall have existed between any persons, the possession
of the tenant shall be deemed the possession of the landlord
until the expiration of five years from the expiration of the
tenancy, or, where there has been no written lease, until the
expiration of five years from the time of the last payment of
rent, notwithstanding that such tenant may have acquired
another title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his
landlord. But such presumptions shall not be made after the
periods herein limited.
Sec. 3341. Sec. 13. The right of a person to the possession
of any real property shall not be impaired or affected by a
descent being cast in consequence of the death of a person in
possession of such property.
Sec. 3642. Sec. 14. If a person entitled to commence any
action for the recovery of real property, or to make an entry
or defense, founded on the title to real property, or to rents, or
services, out of the same, be, at the time such title shall first
descend, or accrue, either : First, within the age of twentyone
years ; or, second, insane ; or, third, imprisoned on a crim
inal charge, or in execution upon conviction of a criminal
offense, for a term loss than for life ; or, fourth, a married
woman.
Sec. 8643. Sec. 15. The time during which such disability
shall continue, shall not be deemed any portion of the time in
this Act limited for the commencement of such action, or the
making of such entry or defense, but such action may be com
menced, or entry or defense made, within the period of five
years after such disability shall cease, or after the death of the
oerson entitled, who shall die under such disability ; but, such
ritory within the United States. Second —An action upon a
contract, obligation, or liability, founded upon an instrument
in writing, except those mentioned in the preceding section.
Within four years : First—An action on an open account for
goods, wares, and merchandise sold and delivered. Second —
An action for any article charged in a store account. Third —
An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability, not founded
upon an instrument in writing.
Within three years : First—An action upon a liability ci eated
by statute, other than a penalty or forfeiture. Second—-An
action for trespass upon real property. Third —An action for
taking, detaining, or injuring any goods or chattels, including
actions for the specific recovery of personal property. Fourth
—An action for relief on the ground of fraud ; the cause of
action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued until the
discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts constituting the
fraud.
Within two years : First—An action against u Sheriff, Coroner,
or Constable, upon the liability incurred by the doing of
an act in his official capacity and in virtue of his office, cr by
the omission of un official duty, including the non-payment of
money collected upon an execution. Second —An action upon
a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, where the action is given
to an individual, or an individual and the state, except when
the statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation. Third
—An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false impris
onment. Fourth —An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or
penalty to the state. Filth —An action against a Sheriff, or
other officer, for the escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned
on civil process.
Sec. 3645- (Sec. 2.) The time in section one of this Act shall
be deemed to date from the last transaction, or the last item
charged, or last credit given.
Sec. 3646. (Sec. 3.) The provisions of this Act shall not effect
["affect"] any transactions already barred by statute, or existing
contracts or obligations made and incurred prior to the passage
of this Act, but the same shall be governed in accordance with
the provisions of law in force at the date they were contracted
or incurred. —As amended, Slals. 1807, 80 ; 1877, 114. •
White v. Sheldon, 4 N'ev. 2*0: Basset t v. Monte fhristo M. Co., 15
Nev. 293; KieUards v. Hutchinson, is New 21o.
Sec. 3647. Sec. 17. In an action brought to recover a balance
due upon a mutual, open, and current account, where there
have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of
action shall be deemed to have accrued from the time of the last
item proved in the account on either side.
Warren v. Sweeney, 4 Nev. 101; Cooke* v. Culbertson, 9 Nev. 199.
Sec. 3648. Sec 18. An action for relief, not hereinbefore
provided for, must be commenced within four years after the
cause of action shall have accrued.
Sec. 3649. Sec. 19. The limitations prescribed in this Act
shall upply to actions brought in the name of the state, or for
the benefit of the state, in the same manner as to actions by
private parties. — As amended, Statu. 18G7, 8(>.
State v. Yellow Jacket S. M. Co., 14 New 220.
Sec. 36B0- Sec. 20. An action shall be deemed to be com
menced, within the meaning of this Act, when the complaint
has been filed in the proper court, and summons issued and
placed in the hands of the Sheriff of the county, or other person
authorized to serve the same.
Sec. 36S1. Sec. 21. If , when the cause of action shall accrue
against a person, he be out of the state, the action may be com
menced within the time herein limited after his return to the
state ; and if after the cause of action shall have accrued he
deptirt the state, the time of his absence shall not be part of the
time prescribed for the commencement of the action. —As
amended, Slats. 1807, 8G.
The Chollar-Potosi Mining Company
Xev. .'{61 ; Robinson v. The Imperial
New 44; Todman v. Purdv, 5 Xev
Nevada 8. M. Co., 10 Nov. 400.
. Kennedv & Keating, 3
ilver Mining Company, 5
Sec. 23S ; Perkins v. Sierra
Sec. 36B2. Sec. 22. Jf a person entitled to bring an action
other than for the recovery of real property, except for a penalty
or forfeiture, or against a Sheriff or other officer for an escape,
be, at the time the cause of action accrued, either : First, within
the age of twenty-one years ; or second, insane ; or, third,
imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the
sentence of a criminal court, for a term less than his natural
life ; or, fourth, a married woman ; the time of such disability
shall not bo a part of the time limited for the commencement of
the action.
Sec. 3653. Sec. 23. If the person entitled to bring an action,
die before the expiration of the time limited for the commence
ment thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be
commenced by his representatives, after the expiration of that
time, and within one year from his death. If a person against
whom an action may be brought die before the expiration of
the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause
of action survives, an action may be commenced against his
executors or administrators after the expiration of that time,
and within one year after the issuing of letters testamentary or
of administration.
Wick v. O'Xeale, Admr., 2 Xev 30.°,; Riokards v. Hutchinson, 18
New 210.
Sec. 3654. Sec. 2-i. When a person shall be an alien subject,
or citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time
" continuance of the war shall not be a r>art of the Dprind
Sec. 365S- Sec. 25. If an action shall be commenced within
the time prescribed therefore, and a judgment therein for the
plaintifff be reversed on appeal, the plaintifff, or if he die and
the cause of action survive, his heirs or representatives, may
commence a new action within one year after the reversal.
Sec. 3636. Sec. 2(3. When the commencement of one action
shall be stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time
of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition shall not be part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.
Sec. 3657. Sec. 27. No person shall avail himself of a disability,
unless it existed when his right of action accrued.
Sec. 3658. Sec. 28. When two or more disabilities coexist, at
the time the right of action accrues, the limitation shall notC
attach until they all be removed.
Sec. 3659. Sec. 29. The preceding sections of this Act shall
not affect actions against directors or stockholders of a corporation
to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed or to enforce a
liability created by law ; but such actions must be brought
within three years after the discovery, by the aggrieved party,
of the facts upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or
the liability was created.
Sec. 3660- Sec. 30. No acknowledgment or promise shall be
sufficient evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to
take the case out of the operation of this statute, unless the same
be contained in some writing signed by the party to be charged
thereby.

Sec. 3661- Sec. 32. An action upon a judgment, contract,
obligation, or liability for the payment of money or damages
obtained, made, executed, or incurred out of this state, can only
be commenced as follows : First—Within one year, when prior
to the passage of this Act more than two, or less than five years
have elapsed since the cause of action accrued. Second —
Within six months, when prior to the passage of this Act more
than five years have elapsed since the cause of action accrued.
Third —Within two years, in all other cases, after the cause of
action accrued. A right of action shall be deemed to have
accrued on a judgment at the time of its rendition. —As amended,
Slals. 18G7, 87.
Wilcox v. Williams, 5 Nev. 206.
Sec. 3662. Sec. 33. When the cause of action has arisen in
any other state or territory of the United States, or in a foreign
country, and by the laws thereof an action there cannot be
maintained against a person by reason of the lapse of time, no
thirty-four, of an Act entitled "An Act defining the time of
commencing civil actions," approved November twenty-first,
eighteen hundred and Bisty-one, and the Act approved Novem
ber twenty-third, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, entitled "An
Act to amend an Act to define the time of commencing civil
actions," approved by the Governor on the twenty-first day of
November, eighteen hundred and sixtv-one, are hereby repealed
; but nothing herein contained shall be construed to
affect rights already acquired, or defenses existing, at the time
of the passage of this Act ; and in computing the time within
which to commence actions, the time which had elapsed at the
time of the passage of this Act, and which might have been
plead prior thereto, shall be deemed and held a part of the time
herein provided for. 
Sec. 3664. Section 1. No action for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery of the possession thereof other than
mining claims, shall be maintained, unless it appear that the
plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor was seized or
possessed of the premises in question, within five years before
the commencement thereof.
Sec. 3665. Sec. 2. This Act shall be in force and tate effect
from and after its passage, except as to any actions now pend
ing in any of the courts of this state.
An Act relating to the manner of commencing civil actions.
Approved December 20, 1802, 120.
Sec. 3666. Section 1. In all actions hereafter brought on contract,
the defendants may be sued by the name or style under
Sec. 3667. Section 1. Actions against a county may be commenced
in the district court of the judicial district embracing
said county ; provided, that actions between counties sliall be
commenced in a court of competent jurisdiction in any county
not a party to the action.
Sec. 3668. Sec. 2. In counties where there is a Board of
County Commissioners, having an acting Chairman or President
of such board, the original process and papers shall be
served on such Chairman or President, in the same manner as
upon private persons ; when there is no such Chairman or
President, they shall in like manner be served on the Probate
Judge of the county.
Sec. 3669. Sec. 3. Immediately on the service of such process,
it shall be the duty of the officers so served to deliver such"
process, and all papers accompanying the same, to the District
Attorney for such county.
Sec. 3670- Sec. 4. Actions brought for or against a county
shall be in the name of such county.
Waitz v. Ormsbv County. 1 Nev. 370; Williams v. Birlleman. 7
Nev. OS; Clarke v. Lynn County, M Nov. 181 ; Floral Springs
Water Co. v. Rives, 14 Nov. 431; County of Washoe v. County
of Humboldt, 14 Nev. 123.
An Act concerning the writ of habeas corpus.
Approved December 19, 1882, 98.
Sec. 3671. Section 1. Every person unlawfully committed, detained,
confined, or restrained of his liberty, under any pretense
whatever, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus to inquire
into the cause of such imprisonment or restraint.
Sec. 3672. Sec. 2. A,v,.lw-ntiV« *~ ' , W
imprisoned or restrained of his liberty ; the officer or person by
whom he is so confined or restrained, and the place where,
naming all the parties, if they are known, or describing them,
if they are not known. Second —If the imprisonment be illegal,
the petition must also state in what the alleged illegality con
sists. Third —The petition must be verified by the oath or
affirmation of the party making the application.
Ex parte Denv, 10 Xev. 212; ex parte Edgington, 10 Xev. 215;
ex parte All' Bau, 10 Nov. 264.
Sec. 3673. Sec. 3. Such writ of habeas corpus may be granted
by any Judge of the supreme or district courts, at any time in
term or vacation.
Sec. 3674. Sec. 4. Any Judge empowered to grant a writ
applied for under this Act, if it appear that the writ ought to
issue, shall grant the same without delay.
Sec. 3675. Sec. 5. Such writ shall be directed to the officer or
party having such person in custody or under restraint, com
manding him to have the body of such person, so imprisoned
or detained, as it is alleged by the petition, before the Judge, at
such time as the Judge shall direct, specifying in such writ the
place where the petition will be heard, to do and receive what
shall then and there be considered concerning such person,
together with the time and cause of his detention, and have
then and there such writ.
Sec. 3676. Sec. 6. If such writ be directed to the Sheriff or
other ministerial officer, it shall be delivered by the Clerk of the
court presided over by the Judge issuing said writ to such offi
cer without delay.
Sec. 3677. Sec. 7. If such writ be directed to any person other
than is specified in the last preceding section, the same shall be
delivered to the Sheriff or his deputy, and shall be by him
served upon such person by delivering the same to him without
delay. •
Sec. 3678. Sec 8. If the officer or person to whom such -writ
is directed cannot be found, or shall refuse admittance to the
officer or person serving or delivering such writ the same may
be served or delivered by leaving it at the residence of the offi
cer or person to whom it is directed, or by affixing the same on
some conspicuous place on the outside of his dwelling house, or
the place where the party is confined or under restraint. The
service of said writ is made by serving a copy and exhibiting
the original, and, where posting is required, by posting a copy.
Sec. 3679. Sec 9. If the officer or person to whom such writ
is directed refuse, after due service as aforesaid, to obey the
same, it shall be the duty of the Judge, upon affidavit, to issue
an attachment against such person, directed to the Sheriff, or,
if the Sheriff be the defendant, to an Elisor, appointed for the
purpose by the Judge, commanding him forthwith to apprek..: l,;. ,1. T...J~„.
the county until he make clue return of such writ, or be other
wise legally discharged.
Sec. 3680- Sec. 10. The party upon whom such writ shall be
duly served shall state in his return plainly and unequivocally:
First—Whether he have or have not the party in his custody,
or under his power or restraint. Second— If he have the party
in his custody or power, or under his restraint, he shall state
the authority and cause of such imprisonment or restraint, set
ting forth the same at large. Third —If the party be detained by
virtue of any writ, warrant, or any other written authority, a copy
thereof shall be annexed to the return, and the original shall be
produced and exhibited to the Judge on the hearing of buch re
turn. Fourth —If the officer or person upon whom such writ shall
have been served shall have had the party in his power or cus
tody, or under his restraint, any time prior or subsequent to
the date of the writ of habeas corpus, but such officer or person
has transferred such custody or restraint to another, the return
shall state particularly to whom, at what time and place, for
what cause, and by what authority such transfer took place.
Fifth —The return must be signed by the person making the
same, and, except when such person shall be a sworn public
officer, and shall make such return in his official capacity, it
shall be verified by his oath or affirmation.
Sec. 3681. Sec. 11. If the writ of habeas corpus be served,
the person or officer to whom the same is directed shall also
bring the body of the party in his custody or under his restraint,
according to the command of the writ, except in the cases speci
fied in the next two sections.
Sec. 3682. Sec 12. Whenever, from .sickness or infirmity of
the person directed to be produced by any writ of habeas corpus,
such person cannot, without danger, be brought before the
Judge, the officer or person in whose custody or power he is
may state that fact in his return to the writ, verifying the same
by affidavit.
Sec. 3683. Sec 13. If the Judge be satisfied of the truth of
such allegation of sickness or infirmity, and the return to thep
writ is otherwise sufficient, such Judge may proceed to decide
on such return and to dispose of the matter, as if such party
had been produced on the writ, or the hearing thereof may be
adjourned until such party can be produced.
Sec. 3684. Sec. 14. The Judge before whom a writ of habeas
corpus shall be returned shall, immediately after the return
thei-eof, proceed to hear and examine the return, and such other
matters as may be properly submitted for his hearing and con
sideration.
Sec. 3683. Sec. 15. The party brought before the Judge on
the return of the writ may deny or controvert any of the mate
rial facts or matters set forth in the return, or except to the
sufficiency thereof, or allege any fact to show either that his
imprisonment or detention is uulawful or that he is entitled to
his discharge.
Sec. 3686. Sec. 1G. Such Judge, shall thereupon proceed in
a summary way to hear such allegation and proof as may be
produced against such imprisonment or detention, or in favor
of the same, and to dispose of such party as the justice of the
case may require.
Sec. 3687. Sec. 17. Such Judge shall have full power and
authority to require and compel the attendance of witnesses by
process of subpoena and attachment, and to do and perform all
other acts and things necessary to a full and fair hearing and
determination of the case.
Sec. 3688. Sec. 18. If no legal cause be show.n for such
imprisonment or restraint, or for the continuation thereof, such
Judge shall discharge such party from the custody or restraint
under which he is held.
Sec. 3689. Sec. 19. It shall be the duty of such Judge, if the
time during which such party may be legally detained in cus
tody has not expired, to remand such p:irty. if it shall appear
that he is detained in custody by virtue of the final judgment
or decree of any competent court of criminal jurisdiction, or of
any process issued upon such judgment or decree, or in cases of
contempt of court.
Sec. 3690. Sec. 20. If it appears on the return of the writ of
habeas corpus that the prisoner is in custody by virtue of pro
cess from any court of this territory, or Judge or officer thereof,
such prisoner may be discharged, in any one of the following
cases, subject to the restrictions of the last preceding section :
First—When the jurisdiction of such court or officer has been
exceeded. Second— When the imprisonment was at first law
ful, yet by some act, omission, or event, which has taken place
afterwards, the party has become entitled to be discharged.
Third — When the process is defective in some matter of sub
stance; required by law, rendering such process void. Fourth—
When the process, though proper in form, has been issued in a
case not allowed by law. Fifth—When the person having the
custody of the prisoner is not the person allowed by law to
detain him. Sixth—Where the process is not authorized by any
judgment, order, or decree of any court, nor by any provision
of law. Seventh— Where a party has been committed on a
criminul charge without reasonable or probable cause.
Ex parte Allen, 12 Xev. 87.
Sec. 3691. Sec. 21. If any person be committed to prison, or
be in custody of anv officer on anv criminal charjre, by virtue of
that the party is guilty of n criminal offense, or ought not to be
discharged, such Judge, although the charge be defectively or
unsubstantially set forth in such process or warrant of commit
ment, shall cause the complainant, or other necessary witnesses,
to be subpoenaed to attend at such time as shall be ordered, to
testify before such Judge ; and upon the examination, he shall
discharge such prisoner, let him to bail, if the offense be baila
ble, or recommit him to custody, as may be just and legal.
Sec. 3693. Sec. 23. Whenever any person may be imprisoned,
or detained in custody, on any criminal charge, for want of bail,
such person shall be entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, for the
purpose of giving bail, upon averring that fact in his petition,
without alleging that he is illegally confined.
Sec. 3694. Sec. 21. Any Judge, before whom any person who
has been committed on a criminal charge shall be brought on
a writ of habeas corpus, if the same be bailable, may take a
recognizance from such person, as in other cases, and shall file
the same in the proper court without delay.
Sec. 3693. Sec. 25. If any party brought before the Judge,
on the return of the writ, bs not eutitled to his discharge, and
be not bailed where such bail is allowable, such Judge shall re
mand him to custody, or place him under the restraint from
which he was taken, if the person under whose custody or
restraint he was be legally entitled thereto.
Sec. 3696. Sec 26. In cases where any party is held under
illegal restraint or custody, or any other person is entitled to the
restraint or custody of such party, such Judge may order such
party to be committed to the restraint or custody of such person
as is by law entitled thereto.
Sec. 3697- Sec. 27. Until judgment be given on the return,
the Judge, before whom any party may be brought on such
writ, may commit him or her to the custody of the Sheriff of
the county, or place him or her in such care or under such cus
tody as his or her age or circumstances may require.
Sec. 3698. Sec. 28. No writ of habeas corpus shall be disobeyed
for defect of form, if it sufficiently appear therefrom in
whose custody or under whose restraint the party imprisoned
or restrained is, the officer or person detaining him, and the
Judge before whom he is to be brought.
Sec. 3699. Sec 29. No person who has been discharged by
the order of the Judge upon a habeas corpus issued pursuant to
the provisions of this Act, shall be again imprisoned, restrained,
or kept in custody for the same cause, except in the following
cases : First —If he shall have been discharged from custody
on a criminal charge, and be afterwards committed for the same
offense by legal order or process. Second —If after a discharge
for defect of proof, or for tiny defect of the process, warrant, or
commitment, in a criminal case, the prisoner be again arrested
on sufficient proof, and committed by legal process for the
same offense.
Sec. 3700. Sec. 30. Whenever it shall appear by satisfactory
proof, by affidavit, to any Judge authorized by law to grant a
writ of habeas corpus, that any one is illegally held in custody,
confinement, or restraint, and that there is good reason to
believe that such person will be carried out of the jurisdiction
of such Judge, before whom the application is made, or will
suffer some irreparable injury before compliance with the writ
of habeas corpus can be enforced, said Judge may cause a war
rant to be issued, reciting the facts, and directed to the Sheriff
or any Constable of the count}', commanding such officer to
take such person thus held in custody, confinement, or restraint,
and forthwith bring him or her before such Judge, to be dealt
with according to law.
Sec. 3701. Sec. 31. Such Judge may also, if the same be
deemed necessary, insert in such warrant a command for the
apprehension of the person charged with such illegal detention
and restraint.
Sec. 3702. Sec. 32. The officer to whom such warrant is deliv
ered shall execute the same by bringing the person or persons
therein named before the Judge who may have directed the
issuing of such warrant.
Sec. 3703. Sec. 33. The person alleged to have such party
under illegal confinement or restraint may make return to such
warrant, as in the case of a writ of habeas corpus, and the same
may be denied, and like allegations, proofs, and trial, shall be
thereon had as upon the return to a writ of habeas corpus.
Sec. 370 4-. Sec. 34. If such party be held under illegal
restraint or custody, he or she shall be discharged, and if not,
he or she shall be restored to the custody of the person entitled
thereto, or left at liberty, as the case may require.
Sec. 3703. Sec. 35. Any writ or process authorized by this
Act may be issued and served on the first day of the week, com
monly called Sunday, or any other non-judicial day.
Greeley v. Ilollaii'l, 14 Nev. 320.
Sec. 3706. Sec. 3G. All writs, warrants, processes, and sub
poenas, authorized by the provisions of this Act, shall be issued
by the Clerk of the court, and, except subpoenas, sealed with
the seal of the court, and shall be served and returned forth
with, unless the Judge shall specify a particular time for any
such return.
Sec. 3707. Sec. 37. If any Judge, after a proper application
is made, shall refuse to grant an order for a writ of habeas
corpus, or if the officer or person to whom such writ may be
of such writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, shall transfer such
person to the custody of another, or shall place him or her
under the power or control of another, or shall conceal or ex
change the place of his or her confinement or restraint, or shall
remove him or her without the jurisdiction of such Judge, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and fined in a sum not ex
ceeding five thousand dollars.
Sec. 3709. Sec. 39. Every person who shall knowingly aid or
assist in the commission of any offense specified in the last pre
ceding section, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
punished as in the last preceding section mentioned.
Sec. 3710. Sec. 40. Every person convicted of any offense
under the provisions of the last two preceding sections, in addi-1,
tion to the punishment therein mentioned, may be also im
prisoned in the county jail for a term not exceeding two years.
Ex parte Smith, 2 Xev. 3;iX ; ex parte Stanlev. 4 Xev. 113 ; ex parte
Hill, 5 Xev. l.">4; ex parte Ishell, 11 Xev. 2!).">; ex parte Maxwell,
Sec. 11 Xev. 42!); ex parte T\v<>hi_'. i;i Xev. 302; ex parte Lorraine, 16
Xev. 03 ; ex parte Ryan, 17 Nev. 13!).
An Act regulating proceedings upon quo warranto and injormation
in the nature thereof.
Approved February 21, 180o, 1C4.
Sec. 3711. Section 1. An information may be filed against any
person unlawfully holding or exercising any public office or
franchise within this state, or any office in any corporation
created by the laws of this state, or the laws of the late territory
of Nevada ; or when any public officer has done or suffered any
act which works a forfeiture of his office, or when any persons
act as a corporation within this state without being authorized
by law ; or if, being incorporated, they do or omit acts which
amount to a surrender or forfeiture of their rights and privi
leges as a corporation, or when they exercise powers not con
ferred by law.
Sec. 3712. Sec. 2. Such information may be filed by the Prosecuting
or District Attorney of the proper county, whenever hef
deems it his duty so to do, or an occasion therefore arises.
Sec. 3713. Sec. 3. He must file such information when directed
to do so by the Governor, the legislature, the district court, ord
the County Commissioners.
Sec. 3714. Sec. 4. Such information shall consist of a plain
statement of the facts which constitute the grounds of the pro
ceeding, addressed to the court, which shall stand for an
original complaint.
Greeley v. Holland, 14 Xev. 320.
Sec. 3715. Sec. 5. Such statement shall be filed in the Clerk's
office, and summons issued and served in the same manner as
provided for the commencement of civil actions in the district
court.
Sec. 3716. Sec. 6. The defendants may appear and answer such
information in the usual way as in civil actions ; and, issue
being joined, the case shall be tried in the same manner as civil
actions, as nearly as may be.
Sec. 3717. Sec. 7. When the defendant is holding an office to
which another is claiming the right, the information shall set
forth the name of such claimant, and the trial must, if practi
cable, determine the rights of the contesting parties.
Sec. 3718. Sec. 8. If judgment be rendered in favor of such
claimant, he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office,
after he has qualified as required by law.
Sec. 3719. Sec. 0. The court, after such judgment, shall order
the defendant to deliver over all books and papers in his cus
tody, or under his control, belonging to suid office, to the parties
entitled thereto.
Sec. 3720. Sec 10. When the judgment has been rendered in
favor of the claimant, he inay, at any time within one year
thereafter, bring suit against the defendant, and recover the
damages he has sustained by reason of the act of the defendant.
Sec. 3721. Sec. 11. When several persons claim to be entitled
to the same office or franchise, an information may be filed
against any or all of said persons, in order to try their respect
ive rights thereto.
Sec. 3722. Sec. 12. If the defendant be found guilty of unlaw
fully holding or exercising any office, franchise, or privilege ;
or if a corporation be found to have violated the law by which
it holds its existence, or in any other manner to have done acts
which amount to a surrender or forfeiture of its privileges,
judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be ousted and
altogether excluded from such office, franchise, or privilege, and
also that he pay the costs of the proceeding.
Sec. 3723. Sec. 13. If the defendant be found to have exer
cised merely certain individual powers and privileges to which
he is not entitled, the judgment shall be the same as above
directed, but only in relation to those particulars in which he is
thus exceeding the lawful exercise of his rights and privileges.
Sec. 3724. Sec. 14. An information may be upon the relation
of a private individual, and when upon the relation of a private
individual, it shall be so stated in the complaint and proceed
ings, and such individual shall be responsible for costs, in case
they are not adjudged against the defendant. In other respects,
the title of the cause shall be the same as in a criminal prosecu
tion, and the payment of costs shall be regulated by the same
rule.
Sec. 3723. Sec. 15. In case judgment is rendered against a
pretended, but not real, corporation, the costs may be collected
Sec. 3726. Sec. 16. If a corporation is ousted aiid dissolved by
the proceedings herein authorized, the court shall appoint some
disinterested person as Trustee of the creditors and stockhold
ers, who shall receive a compensation for his services to be fixed
by the court.
Sec. 3727. Sec 17. Said Trustee shall enter into bond in such
a penalty, and with such security, as the court approves, con
ditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties.
Sec. 3728. Sec. 18. Suit may be brought on such bond by any
person injured by the negligence or wrongful act of the Trustee
in the discharge of his duties.
Sec. 3729. Sec. 19. The Trustee shall proceed immediately to
collect the debts and pay the liabilities of the corporation, audX
to divide the surplus among those thereto entitled.
Lumlwrt v. MuKarlaml, 7 Nov. 15D.
Sec. 3730. Sec. 20. The court shall, upon an application for
that purpose, order an officer of such corporation, or any other
person having possession of any of the effects, books, or papers
of the corporation, in anywise necessary for the settlement of
its affairs, to deliver the same to the Trustee.
Sec. 3731. Sec. 21. As soon as practicable after his appointment,
the Trustee shall ma' e and file in the office of the Clerk
of the court, an inventory of all the effects, rights, and credits,
which come to his possession or knowledge, the truth of which
inventory shall be sworn to.
Sec. 3732. Sec. 22. He shall sue for and recover the debts and
property of the corporation, and shall be responsible to thed
creditors and stockholders respectively, to the extent of the
effects which come into his hands, in the same manner as
though he was the executor of a deceased person.
Sec. 3733. Sec 23. When judgment of ouster is rendered
against a corporation on account of the misconduct of the
Directors, or officers thereof, such officers shall be jointly and
severally liable to an action by any one injured thereby.
Sec. 3734. Sec. 24. Any person who, without good reason,
refuses to obey an order of the court, as herein provided, shall
be deemed guilty of a contempt of court, and shall be fined in
any sum not exceeding five thousand dollars, and imprisonment
in the county jail until he comply with said order, and shall be
farther liable for the damages resulting to any person on
account of his refusal to obey such order.
Sec. 3733. Sec. 25. It is nride the duty of the several Prosecuting or District Attorneys in this state to be diligent in their
Sec. 3737. Sec. '27. When judgment is against the defendant,
*ke court shall allow to the Prosecuting or District Attorney
such sum of money as may seem reasonable for his services ;
which sum shall be taxed with and collected as the other costs
in the proceeding ; unless judgment is rendered against the
defendant no costs shall be allowed, except as provided for in section fourteen of this Act.

Sec. 3738. Section 1. Any person now legally occupying and
settled upon, or who may hereafter occupy or settle upon, any
of the public lands in this state, for the purpose of cultivating
or grazing the same, may commence and maintain any action
for interference with, or injuries done to, his or her possession
of said land, against any person or persons so interfering with
or injuring such land or possession ; provided, that if the lands
so occupied and possessed contain mines of any of the precious
metals, the possession or claim of the person or persons occu
pying the same, for the purposes aforesaid, shall not preclude
the working of such mines by any person or persons desiring so
to do, us fully and unreservedly as they might or could do had
no possession or claim been made for grazing or agricultural
purposes.
Sec. 3739. Sec. 2. Every such claim, to entitle the holder to
maintain any action as aforesaid, shall not contain more than
one hundred and sixty acres, and the same shall be surveyed
and marked by metes and bounds, so that the boundaries m:iy
be readily traced and the extent of such claim easily known ;
and no person shall be entitled to maintain any such action for
possession of, or injury to, any claim, unless he or she occupy
the same, and shall have complied with the provisions of the
third and fourth sections of this Act.
Sec. 3740. Sec. H. Any person claiming any of the public
lands in this state shall have the same surveyed by the County
Surveyor of the county in which said lands are situated, and
shall have the plot of such survey duly certified to by said Sur
veyor, recorded in the office of the County Recorder, and shall
take and subscribe his or her affidavit that he or she bus t'A-«n
lands thus recorded to the value of two hundred dollars, by
putting- such improvements thereon as shall partake of the
realty, unless such improvements shall hav*e been made prior to
the application for survey and record, according to section third
of this Act.
Sec. 3742. Sec. 5. At any time after the provisions of the
second, third, and fourth sections of this Act shall have been
complied with, the party so complying shall be permitted to
absent himself or herself from such claim, without being re
quired to occupy the same, for a period of not more than twelve
months ; provided, the person so wishing to absent himself
or herself shall first pay to the Treasurer of the county in which
said claim shall be situated the sum of fifteen dollars, in gold or
silver coin, upon which payment the Treasurer shall issue a
receipt for the same. At any time within twelve months after
the date thereof, such receipt shall be received as prima facie
evidence of possession in any court having jurisdiction in such
cases. Any person absenting himself or herself from said claim
for a longer period than sixty days, without first paying the
sum provided in this section, shall forever forfeit his or her
claim to the lands. One half of the amount paid to any County
Treasurer, under the provisions of this section, shall be paid by
said Treasurer into the general fund of such county, and the
balance into the state treasury, whenever making his regular
settlements with the State Treasurer. The State Treasurer
shall set apart and retain all monies received from such source
as a special fund, which may hereafter be appropriated by law
for the maintenance and protection of the insane.
Sec. 3743. Sec. (i. On the trial of any such causes, the possession
or possessory right of the plaintifff, shall be considered as
extending to the boundaries embraced in such survey, so as to
enable him or her, according to section third of this Act, to
have and maintain any action as aforesaid, without being com
pelled to prove an actual enclosure.
Sec. 3744. Sec 7. All lands in this state shall be deemed and
regarded as public lands, until the legal title is known to have
passed from the government to private individuals or parties.
Every person who shall have complied with the provisions of
this Act shall be deemed and held to have the right or title of
possession of all the lands embraced within their survey, not to
exceed one hundred and sixty acres ; and any person who shall
thereafter, without the consent of the person so complying, enter
into or upon said lands adversely, shall be deemed and held
guilty of an unlawful and fraudulent entry thereon, and may be
removed therefrom by proceedings had before any Justice of
the Peace of the township in which the lands are situated (or in
case of the absence or other disability of such Justice, before
any other Justice of an adjoining township.) Such proceedings
may be commenced and prosecuted under the provisions of an
Act of the legislature of the State of Nevada, entitled "An Act
the provisions contained in said Act are made applicable to
proceedings under this Act. —As amended, Slats. 1809, 72.
Sec. 3745. Sec. 8. Sections ten and thirteen of an Act passed
by the legislative assembly of the territory of Nevada, entitled
"An Act to regulnte surveys and surveying," approved Novem
ber twenty-ninth, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one,
and all other Acts or parts of Acts, so far as the same are incon
sistent with, or repugnant to, the provisions of this Act, are
hereby repealed.
Sankev v. Noyes, 1 Nev. fi1*; Van Valkenlmr;; v. Huff, 1 Nov. 142;
McFarland v. Culbertson, 2 Nov. '-'SO; Sharon v. Davidson, 4
Nov. 41G; Robinson v. Imperial Mining Company, o Nov. 44;
Staininser v. Andrews. 4 N'ev. ."/) ; Courchuine v. The Bullion Co..
4 Nev. 3t»9.
An Act concerning forcible entries and unlawful detainers.
Approved February 1G, 18G5, 100.
Sec. 3746. Section 1. No entry shall be made into any lands,
tenements, or other possessions, but in cases where entry is
given by law ; and in such case, only in a peaceable manner,
not with strong hand, nor with multitude of people.
Sec. 3747. Sec. 2. When any such forcible entry shall be
made, or where the entry shall be made in a peaceable manner,
and the possession shall be held by force against the person
entitled to the possession, the person so forcibly put out, or so
forcibly holden out of possession, shall be restored to such pos
session by action, to be commenced and prosecuted as in this
Act provided.
Sec. 3748. Sec. 3. It shall be unlawful for any person to hold
over any lands, tenements, or other possessions, after the termi
nation of the time for which they may have been demised or let
to him, or her, or to the person under whom he or she holds
possession ; or contrary to the covenants of the lease or agree
ment under which he or she holds ; or the lease or agreement
of the person under whom he or she holds possession ; or after
any rent shall have become due, according to the terms of such
lease or agreement, and shall remain unpaid for the space of
three days after the same shall have become due, as aforesaid.
Sec. 3749. Sec. 4. In all cases specified in the preceding sec
tion, and in all other crises where a person, not a tenant under
the landlord by virtue of any lease or agreement, or where any
person not holding possession as the tenant or sub-tenant of
such landlord, may be found in possession of the premises, the
landlord may, at any time within one year after such rent shall
become due and remain unpaid, or after any holding over con
premises, that he, she, or they, deliver the possession of the
premises held as aforesaid ; and if such tenant or tenants, or
such person in possession of the premises, shall refuse or
neglect, for the space of three days after such demand, to quit
the possession of such lands or tenements, in case the term has
expired, or the covenants or conditions of the lease require said
premises to be surrendered, or to pay the rent, in case the term
has not expired, but rent remains unpaid, then such tenant or
tenants, or person in possession of the premises, shall be deemed
guilty of an unlawful detainer. •
Sec. 3750. Sec. 5. It shall not be necessary, in order to work
a forfeiture for the non-payment of rent, to make demand for
rent on the day on which the same becomes due, or at any par
ticular time of day, but demand may be made of the tenant in
person, or of any person in possession of the premises at any
time within a year after such rent shall become due, and may
be made for the whole amount due and unpaid at the date of
making such demand. The failure on the part of the lessee, or
his assigns, or the person in possession, to pay such rent upon
such demand being made, shall have the same force and effect
as if such demand hud been made on the premises toward sun
set on the day when the rent became due.
Sec. 3751 . Sec. (5. In all leases of lands or tenements, or any
interest therein, from month to month, the landlord may, and
it shall be lawful for him, upon giving notice, in writing, at
least fifteen days before the expiration of the month, to change
the terms of the lease, to take effect at the expiration of said
month. Said notice, when served upon the tenant, shall of itself
operate and be effectual to create and establish, as a part of the
lease, the terms, rent, and conditions specified in said notice,
if such tenant shall continue to hold such premises after the
expiration of said month. In all leases of lands or tenements,
or any interest therein, for a month, or any term loss thin a
year, if the tenant holds over his term by consent of his land
lord, the tenancy shall bo construed to bo a tenancy from
month to month, or u tenancy for such term, loss than a year,
as the case may be ; provided, that a tenancy from month tomonth
may be terminated by the landlord giving notice of such
termination ten days prior to the expiration of the month.
Sec. 3752. Sec. 7. The complaint, in actions commenced or
prosecuted under this Act, shall set forth the facts on which the
plaintifff seeks to recover, and shall describe the premises
sought to be recovered, with reasonable certainty, and may
charge that the defendant has acted fraudulently in making
such forcible entry, or holding such forcible possession fin case
where the action is brought for a forcible entry, or forcible
holding), and may claim such damages thereof as he may deem
proper ; and in case of rent due and unpaid, may state the
amount thereof ; and such complaint shall be verified in the
mode prescribed by law for the verification of pleadings in civil
cuses.
Sec. 3753. Sec. 8. A defendant shall be deemed to be guilty
°f fraud, within the meaning of this Act, when the forcible
entry or tlie forcible detainer are shown to have been made or
done in bad faith, and knowing that the said defendant had no
legal right to make such entry or detainer.
Sec. 37S4. Sec. 9. Upon presenting the complaint in said
action, duly verified as aforesaid, and charging fraud in making
such forcible entry, or in holding such possession by force, to
the Judge of the court in which such action is brought, an
order for the arrest of the defendant or defendants shall be
made by such Judge ; and all the provisions of law from section
seventy-six to section ninety-eight, both inclusive, in title live, chapter one, of an Act entitled "An Act to regulate proceedings
in civil cases iu the courts of justice of the territory of Nevada,"
approved November twenty-ninth, eighteen hundred and sixtyone,
shall be, and arc hereby made the rule of proceeding to
said arrest and bail in said action of forcible entry or forcible
detainer.
Sec. 3753. Sec. 10. On the trial of any action of forcible
entry, or forcible detainer, the plaintifff shall only be required
to show; in addition to the forcible entry or forcible detainer
complained of, that he was peaceably in the actual possession at
the time of the forcible entry, or was entitled to the possession
at the time of the forcible detainer. The defendant may show,
in his defense, that he or his ancestors, or those whose interest
in such promises he claims, have been in the quiet possession
thereof for the space of one whole year together next before the
commencement of said action, and that his interest therein is
not then ended or determined, and such showing shall be a bar
to the action in all cases provided for in this Act.
Sec. 3756. Sec. 11. No person other than the actual oeeupants
of the premises shall be necessary parties defendant to
proceedings under this Act ; and in case a married woman be a
tenant or occupant, and her husband be a non-resident, or can
not be personally served with the summons within the county
within which the premises are situated, before the return day of
such summons, her marriage shall not be a defense in such pro
ceedings, but in case her husband be not found and served with
summons, a judgment against her shall only be valid against
property on the premises at the time of the commencement of
the action.
Sec. 3757. Sec. 12 If, upon the trial of any action under the
provisions of this Act, the verdict of the jury, or the finding of
the court, shall bo in favor of the plaintifff, tho court shall
thereupon enter judgment for the plaintifff to have restitution
of the premises, and the jury or the court (in case the action is
tried without a jury) shall also find or assess the damages occa
sioned to tho i)l:iintifV bv such forcible entrv or forcible detainer.
same be for damages, for rent due and unpaid, for the amount
of such damages ; or, if the same be for damages for a forcible
entry or forcible holding, then for three times the amount of
such damages so found or assessed.
Sec. 3738. Sec. 13. The proceedings in or upon the trial of
any such action, shall bo the same as in other civil cases, except
as herein otherwise provided, and judgment shall be entered,
execution issued, and all other proceedings, both before and
subsequent to judgment, be had as in other civil cases.
Paul v. Anu-troii™, 1 Xcv. X2 Hoopes v. Meyer, 1 New 433; Lachman
v. Burnett, Hi Nev. 154.
An Act concerning unlawful holding over of lands, tenements, and
oilier possessions.
Approved March 8, 1K05, 263.
Sec. 3759. Section 1. When any person or persons shall hold
over any lands, tenements, or other possessions, after the terruination
of the time for which they are demised or let to him,
her, or them, or to the person or persons under whom he, she,
or they hold, or after any rent shall become due, according to
the terms of such lease or agreement, and shall remain unpaid
for the space of thive days after demand for payment thereof,
in all such cases, if the lessor, his heirs, executors, adminis
trators, assigns, agent, or attorney, shall make demand in
writing of such tenant or tenants, or any person in possession
of the premises, that he, she, or they shall deliver the possession
of the premises held as aforesaid ; and if such tenant or tenants,
or person or persons in possession of the premises, shall refuse
or neglect for the space of three days after such demand to quit
the possession of such lauds or tenements, or to pay the rent
due and unpaid as aforesaid, upon complaint therefore to any
Justice of the Peace of the proper county, the Justice shall
proceed to hear, try, and determine the same in the manner in
this Act provided.
Sec. 3760. Sec. 2. It shall not bo necessary, in order to work
a forfeiture for non-payment of rent, to make a demand thereof
on the day on which the same becomes due, or at any particular
time of the day, but demand may be made of the tenant in per
son, or of any person in possession, at any time within a year
after such rent shall become due, according to the terms of any
lease or agreement, and may be made for the whole amount due
and unpaid at the time of such demand ; and the failure on the part of the lessee or his assigns, to pay such rent upon such
demand being made, shall have the same force and effect as if
demand had been made ou the premises toward sunset on the
day when the rent became due.
Sec. 3761. Sec. 3. No person, other than the actual occupants
of the promises, shall be necessary parties defendant to proceed
ings under this Act , and in case a married woman be a tenant
or occupant, and her husband cannot be personally served with
the summons within the county in which the premises are situ
ated before the return day of such summons, her marriage shall
not be a defense in such proceedings ; but in case her husband
be not joined and served, a judgment against her shall only be
valid against projjerty on the premises at the time of the trial.
Sec. 3762. Sec. 4. In all leases of lands or tenements, or any
interest therein, from month to month, the landlord may, and
it shall be lawful for him, upon giving notice in writing, at least
fifteen days before the expiration of the month, to change the
terms of the lease, to take effect at the expiration of said month;
said notice, when served upon the tenant, shall of itself operate
and be effectual to create and establish, as a part of the lease,
the terms, rent, and conditions specified in said notice, if such
tenant shall continue to hold such premises after the expiration
of the month. In all leases of lands or tenements, or any
interest therein, for a month, or any less term than one year,
and the tenant holds over his term by consent of his landlord,
the tenancy shall be construed to be a tenancy from mouth to
month, or a tenancy for such term less than a year, as the case
may be.
Sec. 3763- Sec. 5. The remedy provided for in this Act shall
not apply as against any person who shall have held the prem
ises demised, leased, or let to him, or to the person under or
through whom he holds the possession for one year, adversely
to the right, title, or claim of the landlord, or to the person
under or through whom he claims.
Sec. 3764. Sec. G. Any Justice of the Peace of the proper
county shall have jurisdiction of all actions commenced and
prosecuted, as in this Act provided.
Sec. 3763. Sec. 7. When any complaint shall be made in
writing, under oath, to any Justice of the Peace, of any such
unlawful holding over, said Justice shall issue a summons,
directed to the Sheriff, or any Constable of the county, com
manding him to summon the person or persons complained of,
to appear before said Justice, on a day in such summons named,
which shall not be less than three, nor more than six days, from
the day of issuing such summons, and at the place therein
mentioned.
Sec. 3766. Sec 8. Such summons shall be served upon the
person or persons against whom the same is issued, by deliver
ing a true copy thereof to such person or persons, at least .two
days before the return day thereof ; and the officer serving the
same shall make a special return of the time and manner of
serving such summons.
Sec. 3767. Sec. 9. If at the time of making such complaint it
«h;ill he mnde tn annfi.ir t.h.it, the nprson or riftrsnns Mfriiinst
the county, it shall be the duty of the Justice to issue his sum
mons, as hereinbefore provided, and the same may be served by
leaving a true copy thereof, at the last or usual place of abode
of such person or persons, not less than two days from the
return day thereof ; which copy shall be left with some member
of the family, or some person residing at such place, of suitable
age and discretion, to whom the contents thereof shall be ex
plained by the officer leaving the same ; and the officer shall
make a special return of the time and manner of serving said
summons ; and the suit shall thereafter proceed the same as
though a personal service were had of such summons.
Sec. 3768. Sec 10. After the return of the summons, served
as hereinbefore provided, and at the time and place appointed in
said summons, the Justice shall proceed to hear and determine
said complaint, unless either party shall demand a jury, in
which case the Justice shall issue a venire for a jury, in the
same manner, and upon the same terms, as in other cases pro
vided for trial by jury in justices' courts ; and such jury shall
be sworn as in other cases.
Sec. 3769. Sec. 11. The Justice may, at his discretion, and
for good cause shown, adjourn the trial of any cause under this
Act, not exceeding five days ; and when the defendant, his agent
or attorney, shall make oath that he cannot safely proceed to
trial, for want of some material witness, naming him, stating
the evidence that he expects to obtain, showing that he has
used due diligence to obtain such witness, and believes that if
an adjournment be allowed he will be able to procure the attend
ance of such witness, or his deposition, in time to produce the
same upon the trial : in which case, if such person or persons
will give bond, with one or more sufficient sureties, conditioned
to pay the said complainant for all rent that may accrue during
the pending of such suit, and all costs and damages consequent
upon such adjournment, the said Justice shall adjourn said
cause for such reasonable time as may appear necessary, not
exceeding thirty days.
Sec. 3770- Sec. 12. If the complainant admit that the evidence
stated in the affidavit mentioned in the last preceding section
would be given by such witness, and agree that it be considered
as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as
improper, the trial shall not be adjourned.
Sec. 3771. Sec. 13. The testimony of any witness which may be
considered necessary by either party, may be taken in the same
manner, and with the like effect, as is provided for the taking
of testimony in other cases in justices' courts.
Sec. 3772. Sec. 14. If, upon the trial of any complaint under
this Act, the Justice or jury shall find the defendant or defendants, or either of them, guilty of the allegations in the com
plaint, said Justice shall immediately enter judgment for the
complainant to have restitution of the premises, and shall tax
of is not guilty, the Justice shall tax the costs against the com
plainant, and issue execution therefore. If the jury empaneled
cannot agree upon a verdict, the Justice shall discharge them,
and issue a new venire, returnable forthwith, or at some time
agreed upon between the parties ; and in case the jury fail to
agree, each party shall pay one-half of the jury fee, which shall
abide the final determination of the suit.
Sec. 3773. Sec. 15. Iii all cases of a verdict by the Justice or
jury for the complainant, the damages shall be assessed, if
claimed in the complaint, as well for waste and injury com
mitted upon the premises, as for the rents and profits during
such unlawful holding over, and the verdict shall also find the
monthly value of the rents and profits of said premises ; and
the complainant shall be entitled to recover treble damages
against the person or jiersons against whom judgment has been
rendered, which damages shall be assessed by the Justice or jury,
and entered as a judgment in the cause upon which execution
shall issue.
Sec. 3774. Sec. 16. Every person summoned as a juror, or
subpoenaed as a witness, who shall not appear, or appearing,
shall refuse to serve or give evidence in any cause instituted
under this Act, shall forfeit and pay a fine for every such default
or refusal, to the use of the county, unless some reasonable cause
be assigned ; such fine, not exceeding twenty dollars, as the
Justice shall think proper to impose, and execution shall issue
therefore.
Sec. 3775. Sec. 17. If either party shall feel aggrieved by the
verdict of the jury, or the decision of the Justice, he may appeal
within ten days, as in other cases tried before Justices of the
Peace, and he shall give bonds with two or more sufficient
sureties, to be approved by said Justice, in all respects as appeals
are perfected in other cases before Justices of the Peace, con
ditioned to pay all costs of such appeal, and abide the order the
appellate court may make therein, and pay all rent and other
damages justly accruing during the pending of such appeal ;
and upon the filing of the notice of appeal, and the affidavit of
the appellant, that the appeal is taken in good faith, and that
he intends to perfect said appeal, the Justice shall grant a stay
of the writ of restitution, for not exceeding two days, for the
purpose of allowing the appellant an opportunity to file his
appeal bond, and for no other,
Sec. 3776. Sec 18. Upon taking such appeal, all further procee(]jn„s
jn cause shall be thereby stayed, and the appellate
court, in all crises which lire now r>endin<r. or which mav here
such writ of restitution, said officer shall cense all further pro
ceedings, by virtue of such writ ; and if such writ shall not have
been completely executed, tbc parties in possession shall remain
in possession of the premises until the appeal shall be deter
mined.
Sec. 3778. Sec 20. In all cases of appeal under this Act, the
appellate court shall not dismiss or quash the proceedings for f
want of form ; provided, the proceedings have been conducted
substantially according to the provisions of this Act ; and
amendments to the complaint, answer, or summons, in matters
of form only, may be allowed by the court, at any time before
final judgment, upon such terms as may be just ; and all matters
of excuse, justification, or avoidance of the allegations in the
complaint, may be giveu in evidence under the answer.
Sec. 3779- Sec 21. The following or equivalent forms may be F
used in proceedings under this Act, to-wit : Summons: The
State of Nevada to the Sheriff or any Constable of the county
of , greeting : Whereas, A. B., of the county of , hath
exhibited unto me, a Justice of the Peace for said county, a
complaint against C. D., of the county of , for that the said
C. D.,of the county of , on the day of , A. D. ,
at the county of , (here instrt the substance of the com
plaint with sufficient certainty). You are thereforee commanded
to summon the said C. D., if he be found in your county, to be
and appear before me, at my office (stating the place), on the
day of , A. D. , then and there to make answer
unto the complaint aforesaid. Given under my hand this
day , A. D. . E. F., Justice of the Peace.
Sec. 3780. Sec 22. Writ of restitution : The State of Nevada
to the Sheriff or Constable of the county of , greeting :
Whereas, A. B., of the county of , at a court of inquiry of
an unlawful holding over of lands, tenements, and other pos
sessions, held at my office (stating the place), in the county
aforesaid, on the day of , A. D. , before me, a
Justice of the Peace for the county aforesaid, by the considera
tion of the court, has recovered judgment against C. D., to have
restitution of (here describe the premises as in the complaint.)
You are thereforee commanded, that taking with you the force
of the county, if necessary, you cause the said C. D. to be
immediately removed from the aforesaid premises, and the said
A. B. to have peaceable restitution of the same ; and you are
also commanded that of the goods and chattels of the said C. D.,
within said county, you cause to be made the sum of dol
lars for the said plaintifff, together with the costs of suit indorsed
hereon, aud make return hereof within thirty days from this
date. Given under my hand this day of , A. D. .
E. F., Justice of the Peace.
Sec. 3781. Section 1. There shall be no distinction as to the
mode of taking or perfecting appeals, or as to the effect of them,
between cases at law and cases in equity.
Sec. 3782. Sec. 2. In cases tried by the court, without a jury,
no judgment shall be reversed for want of a finding, or for a
defective finding of the facts, unless exceptions be made in the
court below to the finding, or to the want of a finding ; and in
case of a defective finding, the particular defects shall be speci
fically and particularly designated ; and upon failure of the
court below to remedy the alleged error, the party moving shall
be entitled to his exceptions, and the same shall be settled by
the Judge us in other cases ; prodded, that such exceptions to
the finding, or want of a finding, shall be filed in the court
within live days after the making of the finding or decision to
which exception is made.
Smith v. Logan, 18 Nev. 149; Langworthy v. Coleman, 18 Nov. 440;
linyd v. Anderson, 18 Nov. 34S.
Sec. 3783. Sec. 3. No appeal shall be dismissed for insuffi
ciency of the notice of appeal, or undertaking thereon ; provided,
that a good and sufficient undertaking, approved by a Judge of
the supreme court, be filed in the supreme court before the
hearing upon motion to dismiss the appeal, and upon payment
of such reasonable costs as the court may adjudge ; provided,
that the respondent shall not be delayed, but may move, when
the cause is regularly called, for the disposition of the same, if
such undertaking be not given.
Sec. 3784. Sec 4. During the progress of a cause a party may
take his bill of exceptions to the admission or exclusion of testi
mony, or to the rulings of the Judges on points of law, and it
shall not be necessary to embody in such bill anything more
than sufficient facts to show the point and pertinency of the
exceptions taken. The presiding Judge shall sign the same as
the truth of the ease may be, and such bill shall then become a part of the record, and a party against whom judgment is ren
dered may apjieal from such judgment without any further
statement or motion ; and on such appeal it shall only be
necessary to bring to the supreme court the transcript of the
pleadings, the judgment, and the bill or bills of exception so
taken.
Sec. 3785. Sec. 5. When the defendant resides out of the state,
or is absent therefrom, and has not appeared in the action, and
no attorney has been appointed by the court for such defend
ant, as provided in section thirty-one of an Act to regulate
proceedings in civil cases in the courts of justice in the territory
and on appeal, may be served upon the Clerk of the court for
each defendant, or the court may appoint an attorney for such
defendant, to conduct the proceedings on his part upon such
motion or appeal ; and such notices and papers in that case may
be served upon such attorney.
Tin' balance of this Act relates to appeals from justices' courts,
and is superseded by civil practice Act.
An Act for the punishment of contempts and trespasses.
Approved March 11, 1865, 398.
Sec. 3786. Section 1. Every person who shall have been, 01"
shall be hereafter, dispossessed or ejected from or out of any
piece, parcel, lot, or tract of land, by the judgment, decree, or
process of any court of competent jurisdiction, and who, not
having legal right so to do, shall re-enter into, or upon, or take
possession of any such land, or any part thereof, or induce or
procure any person not having legal right so to do, or shall aid
or abet him therein, shall be deemed guilty of a contempt of the
court by which said judgment or decree was rendered, or from
which such process issued, and shall be tried and punished
therefore, in the same manner and form as now provided by law
in case of contempt not committed in presence of the court or
Justice of the Peace.
Sec. 3787. Sec. 2. Upon a conviction for such contempt, the
court or Justice of the Peace shall immediately issue an alias
process, directed to the proper officer, and requiring him to
restore the party entitled to the possession of such property
under the original judgment, decree, or process, to such pos
session, of which he shall have been dispossessed by the wrong
ful conduct or act herein declared to be a contempt.
An Act concerning juries.
Approved March ">, 1873, 126.
Sec. 3788. Section 1. Every qualified elector of the state,
whether registered or not, who has sufficient knowledge of theJ
English lauguage, and who has not been convicted of treason,
felony, or other infamous crime, and who is not rendered in
capable by reason of physical or mental infirmity, is a qualified
juror of the county in which he resides, or the county to which
it is attached for judicial purposes. —As amended, Slats. 1881, 23.
Sec. 3789. Sec. 2. The District Judge of the district, and the
County Clerk of each county of the state in ■which a district
court may sit, shall, as soon as practicable after the passage of
this Act, enter in a book to be provided and l;ept for that pur
pose, und known as the "jury list," the name of every qualified
juror of the county so far as the same can be ascertained by
them. Such names shall be alphabetically arranged ; and
opposite the name of each person shall be noted, under appro
priate headings, his residence and occupation, when known ;
and when any juror procures his exemption from services as
hereinafter provided, that fact, and the date thereof, shall also
be noted opposite his name. At each ensuing term of the
court, it shall bo the duty of the Judge tnereof to cause said
jury list to be amended and corrected, by adding thereto the
names of all qualified jurors not already included therein, and
by striking therefrom the names of all such as have died, or
for any reason ceased to be qualified jurors of the county. For
the purpose of enabling such amendment and correction to be
made, any person, whose name is already included in said list,
may present to the court the names of other qualified jurors of
the county, who are not included therein ; and it shall be the
duty of the Judge to order such names to be added to the list
if it satisfactorily appear that they are qualified jurors of the
county. Said jury list shall be kept in the office of the County
Clerk, and shall be at all proper times subject to the inspection
of any citizen of the county.
Sec. 3790. Sec. 3. The names which are entered upon the
"jury list" shall, at the same time, be written on separate slips
of paper, and deposited in a box, to be provided and kept for
that purpose, and known as the jury box. Said box, when not
in use as hereiu provided, shall be kept securely locked by the
County Clerk.
Sec. 3791. Sec. 4. To constitute the regular panel of trial
jurors for any term of the district court such number of names
as the Judge may direct shall be drawn from the jury box. The
regular panel of trial jurors may be drawn before the com
mencement of the term of court, and, if so drawn, the Judge
thereof must make and file with the County Clerk an order that
one be drawn, and the number of jurors to be drawn must be
named in the order. The drawing shall take place in the office
of the County Clerk, during regular office hours, in the presence
of all persons who may choose to witness it. If the panel be
drawn before the commencement of the term it shall be drawn
by the Judge and Clerk, or, if the Judge so directs, by any one
of the County Commissioners of the county and the Cler.;, and
if the Judge directs that the panel bo drawn by one of the
County Commissioners of the county and the Clerk, the Judge
must make and file with the Clerk an order designating the
name of such County Commissioner, and fixing the number of
names to be drawn as trial jurors and the time at which the
persons whose names are so drawn shall be required to attend
Judge, the box continuing the names of the jurors shall first he
thoroughly shaken ; it shall then be opened and the Judge and
Clerk, or one of the County Commissioners of the county and
the Cleric, if the Judge has so ordered, shall alternately draw
therefrom one ballot until of non-exempt jurors the number
determined upon is obtained ; provided, tl^at if the officers draw
ing such jury deem that the attendance of any juror whose
name is so drawn cannot be conveniently and cheaply to the
county obtained, by reason of the distance of the residence of
such juror from the court or other cause, his name may, in the
discretion of such officers, be returned to the box and in its
place the name of another juror drawn whose attendance said
officers may deem can be conveniently and cheaply to the county
obtained. A list of the names so obtained shall be made out
and certified by the officers drawing the jury, which list shall
remain in the Clerk's office subject to inspection by any officer
or attorney of the court, and the Clerk shall immediately issue
a venire, directed to the Sheriff of the county, commanding him
to summon the persons so drawn as trial jurors to attend in
court at such time as the Judge may have directed, and the
Sheriff shall make return of the venire at least the day before
the day named for their appearance, after which the venire shall
be subject to inspection by any officer or attorney of the court.
—As amended, Slats. 1871)* 33 ; 1881, 26.
Sec. 3792. Sec. 5. If from any cause the regular panel of trial
jurors should not be drawn and summoned to attend the term
of the district court, as provided in section four of this Act, or
a sufficient number of jurors fail to appear, or when, at any
time during the term of a district court, it shall become neces
sary to summon additional trial jurors, the court may, in its
discretion, draw from the box such number of names as may be
requisite, or may issue an open venire, directed to the Sheriff,
to summon, either immediately or for a day fixed, from citizens
of the county, but not from the bystanders, a sufficient number
of persons, having the qualifications of jurors, to complete the
trial jury or form a new trial jury, as the case may be. The
persons thus summoned shall be as competent trial jurors, in
all respects, as if drawn from the jury box or summoned before
the commeuce'nifiit of the trial. —As amended, Slats. 1881, 23.
Washoe v. Humboldt, 14 Xcv. 123; State v. Angelo, 18 Nev. 423.
Sec. 3793. Sec. 6. When a juror drawn is not summoned, orF
fails to appear, or after appearing is excused by the Judge from
serving, his name shall be returned to the box to be drawn
again. — A* amended, Stals. 1881, 23.
Sec. 3794. Sec. 7. When all the names in the jury box have
been exhausted, or whenever the Judge deems that the jury box
should be reformed, by placing therein anew the names of
jurors, it shall be the duty of the Judge and Clerk to replace in
the jury box separate slips of paper containing the names of all
persons included in the corrected jury list, and thereafter trial
jurors may be drawn therefrom as before. —As amended, Slats.
Sec. 18S1, 23.
Sec. 3795. Sec. 8. It shall be the duty of the District Judge
and any one of the County Commissioners of the county, at
least once in each year and as much oftener as the public inter
est may require, to select from the jury list twenty -lour persons
who shall be summoned to appear as grand jurors at such time
as the Judge may order; prodded, that if the District Judge
deems proper he may direct any one of the County Commission
ers of the county and the Clerk to select the grand jurors, and
such County Commissioner and Clerk, if the Judge so directs,
shall select from the jury list twenty-four persons as grand
jurors. If the Judge directs the grand jurors to be selected by
one of the County Commissioners of the county and the Clerk
the Judge must make and file with the Clerk an order desig
nating the name of such County Commissioner, and the Judge
shall in said order fix the time during the term of court when
said grand jurors shall be required to appear ; and if from any
cause, such County Commissioner and Cleric should fail to select
the grand jurors, the Judge and any one of the County Commis
sioners may, at any time, select the same. A list of the names
so selected as grand jurors shall be made out and certified by
the officers mat ing such selection and be filed in the Clerk's
office, and the Clerk shall immediately issue a venire, directed
to the Sheriff of the county, commanding him to summon the
persons so drawn as grand jurors to attend in court at such
time as the Judge may have directed ; and the Sheriff shall
summon such grand jurors, and out of the number so summoned the court shall select seventeen persons to constitute
the grand jury. If from any cause a sufficient number do not
appear, or those who appear are excused or discharged, an addi
tional number, sufficient to complete the grand jury, shall be
selected from the jury list by the Judge and Clerk and sum
moned to appear in court at such time as the court may direct. —
As amended, Slats. 1879, 34; 1881, 27.
State v. Cullyer, 17 Nov. 275.
Sec. 3796. Sec. 9. Upon satisfactory proof, made by affidavit
or otherwise, the following named persons and no other may be
exempted from serving as grand or trial jurors : Any Judge,
Justice of the Peace, County Clerk, Sheriff, Assessor, Eeeorder,
Constable, practicing attorney, physician, telegraph operator,
and one-half of all members of each regularly enrolled fire
corDPany iu the state, said half to be determined by the several
fire companies respectively, and all officers of such fire com
panies, not exceeding ten in number for each company, and
also in all cities and towns of this state where there are paid
fire departments, after such paid fire department shall have been
organized and nut in operation, all members, and all who niav
or society unless prior to becoming a member of the same lie
shall have served as an active fireman in some regularly
organized fire department in this state for the period of
three years, and also in all cities and towns of this state
wherein there are volunteer fire departments, after such
volunteer five departments shall have been organized and put
in operation, all members and all who may hereafter become
members of any exempt fireman's association, society, or organi
zation within this state, but such exemption shall not extend to
any member of such association, society, or organization, unless,
prior to becoming a member of the same, he shall have served
as an active fireman in some regularly organized volunteer fire
department in this state for the period of five years ; provided,
that the entire exemption of said exempt firemen, where there
is a paid fire department, shall not exceed in any one town or
city of this state one hundred and fifty in number, and where
there is a volunteer fire department said entire exemption shall
not exceed in any one town or city of this state fifty in number.
The Judges of the several district courts may, by an order entered
upon the minutes of their courts, prescribe bounds in their
several counties, and all persons residing without said bounds
may be exempted from serving on juries in the manner herein
after prescribed ; any person residing without said bounds may
present his affidavit, showing his exemption, to the court or
Judge, and if the Judge shall be satisfied therefrom that he is one
of the persons entitled to be exempt, under the provisions of this
Act, he shall endorse thereon an order to the Clerk to make
an entr%- on the jury list, opposite the name of the applicant,
showing that he is exempted from jury service till the fii-st
Monday of January next ensuing. Upon presentation of this
order to the Clerk, and upon payment to him of the sum of
twenty-five dollars in gold coin, it shall be the duty of the Clerk
to grant to him a certificate showing the payment of said sum and
specifying that he is exempted from jury service until the first
Monday of January next ensuing. The Clerk shall also file the
affidavit and order and make proper entry on the jury list. The
money coming into the hands of the Clerk under the operation
of this law shall constitute a jury fund, for the safe keeping and
due application of which the Clerk and his bondsmen shall be
responsible on his official bond. It shall be applied: First—
To the payment of the Clerk of fifty cents for each juror exempted
for his services in filing the affidavit and order, and issuing the
certificate herein provided for, and two per cent, of the whole
sum collected for all other services rendered in pursuance of'
this Act ; the balance of the fund shall be applied to the pay
ment of the compensation of the jurors who served on trial
juries. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to keep an accurate
account of all monies received and disbursed under the pro
visions of this section and to submit the same to the inspection
of the court whenever it is so ordered ; and it shall be the duty
of the Judge to inspect and verify said account at the close of
each term of the court. It shall also be the duty of the Clerk to
keep an accurate account of the attendance of each juror during
the term of the court, and at the close of the term to ascertain
the amount duo each juror for mileage and attendance after
deducting the amount received by him as fees in civil cases. If
there is money enough in the jury fund to pay the jurors in fall
they shall be paid therefrom. If the amount in the jury fund is
insufficient to pay the jurors in full, said jurors shall bo paid
from said fund in the order of their claims until the fund is
exhausted ; the balance of the jurors, if any, shall be paid from
the general fund of the county. — Is amended, Stats. 1875, 137 ;
Sec. 1877, 17(5 ; 1881, 155.
County ill' Washoe v. County of Humboldt, 14 Xcv. 123.
Sec. 3797. Sec. 10. At any time during the term the court
may, in its discretion, excuse temporarily, or for the term, any
juror on account of sickness or physical disability, or serious
illness or death of a member of his immediate family,
Sec. 3798. Sec. 11. Any person summoned as provided in
this Act to serve as a juror, who shall fail to attend and serve
as such juror, shall, unless excused by the court, be fined in any
sum not exceeding live hundred dollars, in the discretion of the
court, and be imprisoned in the county jail until such fine be
paid, at the rate of two dollars per day.
Sec. 3799- Sec. 12. Each person summoned to serve as grand
jurors, and each trial juror summoned as provided in this Act,
unless said trial juror be excused by the court from serving on
the day he is summoned to attend, shall receive three dollars
per day for each and every day he may be in attendance, and
fifteen cents per mile in traveling to and returning from court,
to be paid as hereinbefore provided. — As amended, Stats. 1877,
Sec. 185.
Sec. 3800. Sec. 13. An Act entitled " An Act concerning
juries," approved March third, eighteen hundred and sixty-six,
and all Acts repealed by that Act, and all Acts amendatory of
or supplemental thereto, are hereby repealed; also, an Act
entitled "An Act concerning compensation of jurors," approved
March fifth, eighteen hundred and sixty-nine, and all Acta
amendatory of or supplemental thereto, are hereby repealed.
court may excuse, temporarily, or discharge for the term, a
sufficient number of those who have served longest, to reduce
the panel to the number required.
An Act regulating the manner of drawing juries in the district
courts of this slate, v
Approved February 20, 1885, 32.
Sec. 3802. Section 1. The County Commissioners of each
county in this state shall, at their first meeting after this Act
takes effect, and thereafter at their first regular meeting in each
year, by an order entered on their minutes, estimate as nearly
as possible the number of trial jurors that will be required for
service in the district court until the next annual selection of
trial jurors under this Act. They shall then proceed to select
from the last poll lists of said county such number of qualified
jurymen as they have estimated to be necessary. The names so
selected shall be entered on the minutes of said board, together
with their occupation and place of residence.
Sec. 3803. Sec. 2. The names so selected shall at the same
time be written on separate slips of paper, and deposited in a
box, to be provided and kept for that purpose, and known as
the jury box ; said box, when not in use as herein provided,
shall be kept securely locked by the County Clerk.
Sec. 3804. Sec. 3. When a juror drawn is not summoned, or
fails to appear, or after appearing is excused by the Judge from
serving, his name shall be returned to the box to be drawn
again. The Board of Commissioners shall not select the name
of any person whose name was selected the previous year, and
who actually served on the jury, unless there be not enough
other suitable jurors in the county to do the required jury duty.
Sec. 3803. Sec 4. When all the names in the jury box have been
exhausted, or there are not enough therein to complete the nextr
panel that may be drawn, the District Judge shall certify the
same to the Board of Commissioners, together with the state
ment of the number of additional names that will be required,
and said board shall thereupon proceed and select such required
number of jurors in the manner hereinbefore provided ; and
thereafter trial jurors may bo drawn therefrom as before. Grand
jurors may be drawn from the qualified jurors of the county,
whether their names are or are not upon the list selected by
the Board Of Commissionpra "Ruf if (lnrinor nnv (orin r.( otii7
judgment, be necessary to form such jury or juries, but for that
term only.
Sec. 3806- Sec. 5. This Act shall tale effect and be in force
on and after the first day of April, A. D. one thousand eight
hundred and eighty-five.
Sec. 3807. Sec. G. All Acts and parts of Acts in conflict with
the provisions of this Act, are hereby repealed ; such repeal to
take effect from and after the time this Act shall take effect and
go into operation.
An Act to secure liens to mechanics and others, and to repeal all
other Acts in relation thereto.
Approved March 2, 1S75, 122.
Sec. 3808. Section 1. Every person performing labor upon,
or furnishing material of the value of five (5) dollars or more,
to be used in the construction, alteration. or repair of any build
ing or other superstructure, railroad, tramway, toll road, canal,
water ditch, flume, aqueduct or reservoir, building, bridge,
fence, or any other structure, has a lien upon the same for the
work or labor done or material furnished by each, respectively,
whether doue or furnished at the instance of the owner of the
building or other improvement, or his agent ; and all miners,
laborers and others who work or labor to the amount of five (5J
dollars or more in or upon any mine, or upon any shuft, tun
nel, adit, or other excavation, designed or used for the purpose
of prospecting, draining or working any such mine ; and all
persons who shall furnish any timber or other material, of the
value of five (5) dollars or more, to be ufeed in or about any such
mine, whether done or furnished at the instance of the owner
of such mine or his agent, shall have, and may each respectively
claim and hold, a lien upon such mine for the amount and value
of the work or labor so performed, or material furnished ; and
every contractor, sub-contractor, architect, builder, or other
persons, having charge or control of any mining claim, or any part thereof, or of the construction, alteration or repair, either
in whole or in part, of any building or other improvement, as
aforesaid, shall bo held to be the agent of the owner, for the
purposes of this chapter. — As amended, Slats. 1881, 49.
3S03- Seo. 2. Any person who, at the re:ju33t of the
owner of any lot in any incorporated city or town, grades, fills
in, or otherwise improves the same, or the street in front of or
adjoining the same, has a lien upon such lot for his wor.c done
and materials furnished.
Sec. 3810. Sec. 3. The land occupied by any building or
1 ' i-" -rond, canal, water
with a convenient space about the same, or so much as may be
required for the convenient use and occupation thereof, to be
determined by the court on rendering judgment, is also subject
to the lien, if at the commencement of the worli, or of the fur
nishing of the materials for the same, the land belonged to the
person who caused said building, improvement, or structure to
be constructed, altered, or repaired ; but if such person owned
less than a fee simple estate in such land, then only his interest
therein is subject to such lien.
Sec. 3811. Sec. 4. The liens provided for in this chapter are
preferred to any lien, mortgage, or other encumbrance which
may have attached subsequent to the time when the building,
improvement or structure was commenced, work done, or mate
rials were commenced to be furnished ; also, to any lien, mort
gage; or other encumbrance, of which the lien-holder had no
notice, and which was um-eeorded at the time the building,
improvement, or structure was commenced, work done, or the
materials were commenced to be furnished.
Sec. 3812. Sec. 5. Every original contractor, within sixty days
after the completion of his contract, and every person, save theb
original contractor, claiming the benefit of this chapter, must,
within thirty days after the completion of any building, im
provement, or structure, or after the completion of the altera
tion or repair thereof, or performance of any labor in a mining
claim, file for record with the County Recorder of the county in
whicli the property, or some part thereof, is situated, a claim
containing a statement of his demand, after deducting all just
credits and offsets, with the name of the owner or reputed
owner, if known, and also the name of the person by whom he
was employed or to whom he furnished the material, with a
statement of the terms, time given, and conditions of his con
tract, and also a description of the property to be charged with
the lien, sufficient for identification, which claim must be verified
by the oath of himself or of some other person.
Sec. 3813. Sec. G. In every case in which one claim is filed
against two or more buildings, mining claims, or other iniprovements
owned by the same person, the person filing such
claim must at the same time designate the amount due to him
on each of such buildings, mining claims, or other improve
ments, otherwise the lieu of such claim is postponed to other
liens. The lion of such claimant does not extend beyond the
amount designated, as against other creditors having liens by
judgment or otherwise, upon either of such buildings or other
improvements, or upon the land upon which the same are con
structed.
Sec. 3814. Sec. 7. The Recorder must record the claim in u
boolc kept by him for that purpose, which record must bccl
indexed as deeds and other conveyances are required by law to
be indexed, and for which he may receive the same fees as are
allowed by law for recording deeds and other instruments.
Sec. 3815. Sec. 8. No lien provided for in this chapter binds
any building, mining1 claim, improvement, or structure for a
longer period than six months after the same has been filed,
unless proceedings be commenced in a proper court within that
time to enforce the same ; or, if a credit be given, then ninety
days after the expiration of such credit ; provided, nmerlhelexs,
that if there are other claims outstanding against the property,
no time or credit shall be given upon the lien after the expira
tion of the six months in which proceedings are required to be
commenced -which will tend to delay or postpone the collection
of other claims or encumbrances against the property ; but no
lien continues in force for a longer time than two years from
the time the work is completed by any agreement to give credit.
Sec. 3816. Sec. 9. Every building or other improvement
mentioned in section one of this Act, constructed upon any lands
with the knowledge of the owner or the person having or claim
ing any interest therein, shall be held to have been constructed
at the instance of such owner or person having or claiming any
interest therein, and the interest owned or claimed shall be sub
ject to any lien filed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless such owner or person having or claiming an
interest therein shall, within three days after he shall have
obtained knowledge of the construction, alteration or repair,
or the intended construction, alteration, or repair, give notice
that he will not be responsible for the same, by posting a notice
in writing to that effect in some conspicuous place upon said
land, or upon the building or other improvement situate thereon.
Sec. 3817. Sec. 10. The contractor shall be entitled to recover,
upon a lien filed by him, only such amount as may be due to
him according to the terms of his contract, after deducting
all claims of other parties, for work done and material furnished,
as aforesaid : and in all cases where a lien shall be filed under
this charter, for work done or materials furnished to any con
tractor, he shall defend any action brought thereupon at his
own expense ; and during the pendency of such action the
owner may withhold from the contractor the amount of money
for which such lien is filed ; and in case of judgment against
the owner or his property upon the lien, the said owner shall be
entitled to deduct, from any amount due or to become due by
him to the contractor, the amount of such judgment and costs ;
and if the amount of such judgment and costs shall exceed the
amount due by him to the contractor, or if the owner shall
have settled with the contractor, he shall be entitled to
recover back from the contractor any amount so paid by him,
the said owner, in excess of the contract price, and for which
the contractor was originally the party liable.
Sec. 3818 Sec. 11. In every case in which different liens are
asserted against any property, the court, in the judgment, must
declare the rank of each lien or class of liens, which shall be in
the following order, viz : First— All persons other than the
ceeds of the sale of the property must be applied to each lien or
class of liens in the order of its rank.
Sec. 3819. Sec. 12. Any number of persons claiming liens may
join in the same action ; and when separate actions are com
menced the court may consolidate them. The court may also
allow, as part of the costs, the monies paid for tiling and record
ing the lien.
Sec. 3820- Seo. 13. Whenever materials have been furnished
for use in the construction, alteration, or repair of any building
or other improvement, such materials shall not be subject to
attachment, execution, or other legal process, to enforce any
debt due by the purchaser of such materials, except a debt due
for the purchase money thereof, so long as in good faith the
same are about to be applied to the construction, alteration, or
repair of such building, mining claim, or other improvement.
Sec. 3821. Sec. 14. Nothing contained in this chapter shall
be construed to impair or affect the right of any" person to whom
any debt may be due for work done or material furnished, to
maintain a personal action to recover such debt against the per
son liable therefore.
Sec. 3822. Sec. 15. Said liens may be enforced by an action
in any court of competent jurisdiction, on setting out in the
complaint the particulars of the demand, with a description of
the premises to be charged with the lien ; and at the time of
filing the complaint and issuing the summons the plaintifff shall
cause a notice to be published at least once a week, for three
successive weeks, in one newspaper published in the county,
and if there is no newspaper published in the county, then in
such mode as the court may determine, notifying all persons
holding or claiming liens under the provisions of this Act on
said premises, to be and appear before said court on a day spec
ified therein, and during a regular term of such court, and to
exhibit then and there the proof of their said liens. On the day
appointed, the court shall enter judgment according to the right
of the parties, and shall, by decree, proceed to hear and deter
mine the said claims. in a summary way, or may refer the same
to a referee to ascertain and report upon said liens and the
umount justly due thereon ; and all liens not so exhibited shall
be deemed to be waived in favor of those which are so exhibited.
On ascertaining the whole amount of said liens with which the
said premises are justly chargeable, as hereinbefore provided,
the court shall cause said premises to be sold in satisfac-s
tion of said liens and costs, including costs of suit ; and any
party in whose favor such judgment may be rendered may cause
the premises to be sold within the time and in the manner pro
vided for sales on execution, issued out of any district court,
for the sale of real estate ; and if the proceeds of sale, after the
payment of costs, shall not be sufficient to satisfy the whole
amount of such liens included in the decree of sale, then such
proceeds shall be apportioned according to the right of the sev
eral parties. In case the proceeds of such sale amount to more
than the sum of said liens and the cost of sale, then the re
mainder shall be paid over to the owner of said property ; and
each party whose claim is not satisfied in the manner hereinbe
fore provided for, shall have personal judgment for the residue
against the party legally liable for the same ; provided, such
person has been personally summoned or has appeared in the
action.
Sec. 3823. Sec. 1G. The claimant of any such lien filed as
aforesaid, on the payment of the amount thereof, together with
the costs incurred and the acknowledgment of satisfaction, shall,
at the request of any person "interested in the property charged
therewith, enter or cause to be entered an acknowledgment of
satisfaction of the same \_of~] record within ten days from the
request, and for failure of the claimant to enter satisfaction
within the time, shall forfeit and pay to the person making the
request the sum of twenty dollars per day until the same shall
be entered, to be. recovered in the same manner as other debts.
Sec. 3824. Sec. 17. Two or more creditors of the same class
umv assjrrn their claims, duly verified, to any other creditor or
person of the same class, and the assignee may commence and
prosecute the action upon them ull in his own name. All liens
under this Act shall be assignable as any other chose in action.
Sec. 3823. Seo. 18. All persons who shall perform work or
hibor upon any tract or tracts of lands, by cutting or cording
the wood or timber growing, or being thereon, shall have and
may each respectively, claim and hold a lien upon the wood or
timber so cut or corded, for the amount in value of the work
or labor so performed, by retaining possession of the same,
until the whole amount due for such work or labor shall have
been paid ; provided, that any lien claimed and held, as afore
said, shall be deemed to be waived, unless an action be brought
in some court of competent jurisdiction, for the recovery of the
amount for which such lien is claimed as security, within sixty
days after such wood or timber shall have been taken into pos
session by the claimant ;' and the fact that such lien is claimed,
shall be set out in the complaint, together with a description
of, and the number of cords of wood, or feet of timber retained
in possession by the claimant. If the judgment bo for the
plaintifff in such action, the execution shall direct the same,
with costs, to be satisfied out of the wood or timber so retained,
if the same shall be sufficient ; if not, then the balance to be
satisfied out of any other property of the defendant in the same
manner provided by law. In all cases where two or more per
sons are jointly engaged under a contract or employment, in
cutting or cording wood or timber, on any tractor tracts of land
in this state, any one of such persons" may claim, have, hold
and enforce a lien, for all the work or labor performed, as in
this section provided, and for the benefit of the other persons
jointly interested with him ; in such cases, in all actions brought
under the provisions of this section, it shall be the dutv of the
interested. Possession of wood or timber within the meaning of
this section shall be deemed to be in the person or persons cut
ting or cording wood or timber, for the purposes of this Act,
from the time of cutting or cording the same ; and shall not be
deemed to have been released or yielded by the person or per
sons performing the work or labor, as herein provided, except
such person or persons, by word or act clearly and distinctly
declare, or evidence his or their intention to so release or yield
possession ; and in cases of a joint contract or employment, the
possession of any pirt of the wood or timber, cut or corded,
shall not be deemed yielded or released without the assent of
all the persons cutting or cording the same, manifested as in
this section provided. Justices of the Peace shall have juris
diction of all actions under the provisions of this Act, when the
amount claimed does not exceed three hundred dollars. —As
am faded , Stats. 1879, 52.
Sec. 3826. Sec. 19. All foundrymen and boilermal;ers, and
all persons performing labor, or furnishing machinery, or boil-e
ers, or castings or other materials for the construction, or
repairing, or carrying on of any mill, manufactory, or hoisting
works, shall have a lieu on such mill, manufactory, or hoisting
worlvS, for such work or labor done on such machinery, or
boiler, or castings, or other material furnished by each respect
ively ; and all the provisions of this Act respecting the mode of
filing, recording, securing, and enforcing the liens of contract
ors, sub-contractors, journeymen, laborers, and others, and the
word " superstructure," wherever it occurs in this Act, shall be
applicable to the provisions of this section of this Act.
Sec. 3827. Sec. 20. An Act of the legislature entitled "An
Act to secure liens to mechanics and others, and to repeal all
other Acta in relation thereto," approved March fourth, eighteen
hundred and seventy-one, and all other Acts and parts of Acts,
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, are herein' repealed.
Skvrme v. 0<vM«ntal M. & M. Co., 8 Xev. 219; Dickson v. Anders
m. 11 Nt'V. 277: ('annul v. Str.mt, 11 Xev, ;jii4; Arriiuton v.
Wiltenb >:■„•. 11 X"v. 2-s.") ; Arriiut'm v. Wittenberg, 12 Xev. 99;
IImii'it v. TriH«>- l.<«Wv I. (). <). p., 11 Nev. '21; Lonkey <fc
Smith, v. Co.';. 15 Xev. 5><; Car-ion Opera House v. Miller. 10
Xev. 327; L mlcev ifc S'ni'h v. Wells. !<; Xev. 271 ; Matter v. KulCOll, 18 Nev. 2U'J ; Gould v. Wise, 18 Xev. 253.
An Act supplementary to an Act entitled "An Act to secure, liens to
mechanics and others, and to repeal all oilier Acts in relation
thereto," approved March second, eigltlcen Itundred and seventyfive.
Approved February 21, 1877, 90.
Sec. 3828. Section 1. Where ore is delivered to a custom mill
lien upon the bullion product, and upon the ore not reduced,
as against attachment and other creditors.
An Act to protect the, wages of labor.
Approve 1 February 21, 1S73, 70.
Sec. 3829. Sectios 1. That in nil assignments of property,
whether real or personal, which shall hereafter be made by any
person or chartered company or corporation, or by any person
or persons, owning or leasing real or personal property, to
trustees or assignees on account of inability at the time of the
assignment to pay his, her, or their debts, the wages of the
miners, mechanics, salesmen, servants, clerks, or laborers, em
ployed by such person or persons, or chartered company or
corporation, shall be held and deemed preferred claims, and
paid by such trustees or assignees, before any other creditor or
creditors of the assignor ; provided, that the claims of each
miner, mechanic, salesman, servant, clerk, or laborer thus pre
ferred, shall not exceed in value two hundred dollars of gold
coin of the United States, and the services shall have been ren
dered or labor performed within ninety days next preceding
said assignment.
Sec. 3830. Sec. 2. That in all cases of the death of any employer or employers, the wages of each miner, mechanic, sales
man, servant, clerk, and laborer, for services rendered, or labor
performed, within ninety days next preceding the death of the
employer, shall rank after the funeral expenses of the deceased,
the charges and expenses of administering upon the estate, and
the allowance to the widow and infant children, and be paid
pro rata before all other claims against the estate of the deceased
person or persons ; provided, this Act shall in no way affect the
homestead or other property exempted by law from forced sale,
or any mortgage or lien lawfully obtained on the property of
the deceased person before his or her death,
Sec. 3831. Sec. 3. In all cases of execution, attachments and
wrjtH Gf a similar nature against the property of any person or
persons, or chartered company or corporation, it shall be law
ful for such miner, mechanic, salesman, servant, clerk and
laborer to give notice of their claim or claims, and the amount
thereof, duly certified and sworn to by the creditor or creditors
making the claim to the officer executing either of such writs, at
any time before the actual sale of property levied upon ; the
creditor or creditors making the claim shall at the same time
give notice in writing to the creditor or creditors at whose in
stance the property has been levied upon, or his or their attor
ney, of their said claim or claims, and the amount thereof duly
certified and sworn to by such claimant or claimants ; a copy of
snid notice shall also be served upon the debtor, if he be found
within the county where the property levied upon is situated ;
provided, that if the debtor cannot be found within the county
where the property levied upon is situated, then said notice may
be served upon the officer executing either of such writs in lieu
of said debtor. Upon the tiling in the court where the action or
actions against the debtor is, or are pending, of an affidavit of
the claimant or claimants, showing his or their compliance
with the foregoing provisions of this section, the officer ex
ecuting either of said writs shall pay to such miners,
mechanics, salesmen, servants, clerks or laborers, out of the
proceeds of the sale, the amount each is justly and legally entitled to receive for services rendered, within ninety days next
preceding the levy of the writ of execution, attachment, or
other writ, not exceeding two hundred dollars in gold coin
. of the United States; provided, that either the creditor or debtor
may dispute the claim of any person seeking and claiming preference
under this section, and in such case the party or parties
disputing such claim shall serve a written notice that they dis
pute such claim upon the claimant or claimants, and upon the
officer executing such writs, within five days from the time of
service upon such creditor or debtor of the notice of the claim
by the claimant seeking preference, as hereinbefore provided
for. Within ten days from the time of the service last provided
for, the claimant or claimants shall commence an action in any0
court of competent jurisdiction against the debtor, and the per
son or persons disputing his or their claim, or claims, for the
recovery thereof, and shall prosecute such action with due dili
gence, or be forever barred from any claim of priority payment
thereof ; but in case action is rendered necessary by the Act as
aforesaid, by either debtor or creditor, and judgment shall be
had for said claim, or any part thereof, carrying costs, the costs
attending the prosecution of said action, and legally taxable
therein, shall likewise be a preferred claim, with the same rank
as the original claim; and, provided further, if the amount of
assets, after deducting costs of levy and sale, shall not be adequate
to the payment of all the preferred claims of this class,
they shall be paid pro rata out of the money hereby made
applicable thereto ; and, provided further, that nothing in this
Act contained shall be construed to affect any homestead claims,
mortgage, or lien of any description, created and existing before
the claim of such laborer accrued. — As amended, Stats. 1881, 56.
grain, pasture, or otherwise boarding any horse or horses, mule
or mules, ox or oxen, or qther animal or animals, shall have a
lien upon and retain possession of the same, or a sufficient num
ber thereof, until all reasonable charges are paid; or suit can be
brought and judgment obtained for the amount of such charges,
and execution issued and levied on said property ; provided,
nothing in this Act shall be so construed as to include any debt
other than for the boarding, keeping, or pasture of such
animal or animals, together with costs of suit and sale. Sales
of such animal or animals shall be made as other sales of per
sonal property under execution. The officer making such sale
shall be entitled to such fees for his services as are allowed by
law in cases of other sales of personal property.
Sec. 3833. Sec. 2. After paying all charges, together with
costs of suit and sale, the remainder, if there be any, shall be
paid to the owner or owners of such animal or animals, or, in.
case such owner or owners is or are out of the state, or cannot
be found, to the Justice of the Peace before whom, or the Clerk
of the court in which, judgment is rendered. If said money is
not called for by the owner or owners thereof within six months,
said Justice or Clerk shall pay the same to the County Treasurer
of his county for school purposes.
3S3-4. Sec. 3. Any person or persons who shall talce and
drive away any such animal or animals, while in the possession
of such ranchman or person boarding the same, without having
first paid all reasonable charges due thereon, and against the
consent of such ranchman or other person, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, in any
court having jurisdiction of the same, shall bo lined in any sum
not exceeding the value of the stock so taken or driven away,
nor less than fifty dollars ; provided, that nothing herein con
tained shall be so construed as to release the owner or owners
of said property from the amount of any lieu there may be due
thereon under and by virtue of this Act.
Cardinal v. Edwards, i> Nov. o(j; Estev v. Cooke, 12 New 27k
An Act for the relief of persons imprisoned on civil process.
Approved December 19. 1K(!2. OS.
Sec. 3835. Section 1. Every person confined in jail on an execution
issued on a judgment rendered in a civil action, shall be
discharged therefrom upon the conditions hereinafter specified.
Sec. 3836. Sec. 2. Such person shall cause a notice, in writing, to be given to the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, that at a
Sec. 3837. Sec. 3. Such notice shall be served upon the N
plaintifff, or his agent or attorney, one day at least before the P
hearing of the application. If the plaintifff be not a resident of
the county, and have no agent or attorney in the county, no
such notice need be served.
Sec. 3838. Sec. 4. At the time and place specified in the notice, E
such person shall be tal en before such Judge, who shall exam-H
hie luiu, under oath, concerning his estate, and property, and
effects, and the disposal thereof, and his ability to pay the judg
ment for which he is committed, and such Judge shall also hear
any other legal and pertinent evidence that may be produced
by the debtor or creditors.
Sec. 3839. Sec. 5. If, upon examination, the Judge be satistied that the prisoner is entitled to his discharge, such Judge
shall administer to him the following oath : "I, do
solemnly swear, or affirm, that I have not any estate, real or
personal, to the amount of fifty dollars, except such as is by law
exempted from being taken in execution ; and that I have not
any other estate now conveyed or concealed, or in any way dis
posed of with design to secure the same to my use, or to defraud
my creditors."
Sec. 3840- Sec. 6. After administering the oath, the Judge
shall issue an order that the prisoner be discharged from custody,
if he be imprisoned for no other cause; and the officer, upon ser
vice of such order, shall discharge the prisoner forthwith, if he
be imprisoned for no other cause.
Sec. 3841. Sec. 7. If such Judge should not discharge the
prisoner, he may apply for his discharge at the end of every
succeeding ten days, in the same manner as above provided,
and the same proceeding shall thereupon be had.
3S42. Sec. 8. The prisoner, after being so discharged,
shall be forever exempt from arrest and imprisonment for the
same debt ; but the judgment against him shall remain in full
force against any estate, present or future, of the prisoner, not
exempt from execution.
Sec. 3843. Sec. 9. The plaintifff in the action may, at any
time, order the prisoner to be discharged, and he shall not
thereafter be liable to imprisonment for the same cause of action.
Ex parte Bergman, IS New 331.
Sec. 3844. Sec. 10. Whenever a person is committed to jail
on a judgment recovered in a civil action, the creditor, his agent,
or attorney, shall advance to the Jailer immediately upon such
commitment, sufficient money to pay for the support of said
prisoner for at least two weeks, at the rate of two dollars and a
half per day, and in case the money should not be so advanced,
the Jailer shall forthwith discharge such prisoner from custody,
and such discharge shall be a bar against imprisonment for the
same debt. At the expiration of such two weeks, should such
creditor refuse to advance a like sum, the prisoner will be dis
charged, as above provided, and with the same effect.
Sec. 3845. Section 1. Every insolvent debtor may be dis
charged from his debts, as hereinafter provided, upon executing
an assignment of all his property, real, personal, or mixed, for
the benefit of all his creditors, and upon compliance with the
several provisions of this Act ; provided, said assignment be
made in good faith and without fraud. The district court only
shall have jurisdiction in the subject matter herein contained.
Sec. 3846. Sec. 2. Any person owisg debts to an amount ex
ceeding the sum of live hundred ($500) dollars, and who shall
have resided in the county where such application is made for
at least one year immediately preceding such application, shall
petition the Judge of the District Court having jurisdiction
within the place of his residence, in which petition he shall
briefly state the circumstances which compel him to surrender
his property to his creditors, and shall conclude with a prayer
to make a cession of his estate and to be discharged from his
debts, in pursuance with the provisions of this Act.
Sec. 3847. Sec. 3. The debtor shall annex to his petition his
schedule, that is to say, a specilied statement of his affairs, con
taining a list of the debts and liabilities owing by him, giving
the name of his creditors, if known, the amount due to each
creditor, the cause and nature of such indebtedness, when and
where it accrued, and a statement of any existing judgment,
mortgage, collateral, or other securities for the payment of any
such debt. Said schedule shall also contain a full, complete,
and perfect inventory of all his property, real, personal and
mixed, of all choses in action, debts due or to become due, and
all monies in hand of or belonging to such insolvent. Said
schedule shall also contain a full statement of all encumbrances
existing upon the property of the insolvent. The said debtor
shall, as nearry as jjossible, estimate" the property by him sur
rendered, and set it forth in the schedule at its true cash value.
Sec. 3848. Sec. 4. The said schedule shall be signed by the
debtor, and be by him sworn to before the Judge having juris
diction of the failure, or in the event of his absence from the
county, before the Clerk of the court, in the following words,
to-wit : "I, A B , do, in the presence of Almighty
God, truly and solemnly swear that the schedule now delivered
by me, doth contain a full, perfect, and true discovery of all
the estate, real, personal, and mixed, goods and effects to me
in any way belonging, all such debts as are to me owing, or to
any person or persons in trust for me, and all securities and
contracts whereby any money may hereafter become payable, or
anv benefit or advantage accrue to me or to my use, or any
T 1 x a i10 lands.
in my schedule? ; that I have, in no instance, created or acknowl
edged a debt for a greater sum than I honestly and truly owed ;
that I have not, directly nor indirectly, sold, or otherwise, dis
posed of in trust, or concealed, any part of my property, effects
or contracts , that I have not, in any way, compounded with
my creditors, whereby to secure the same, or to receive or
expect any profit or advantage therefrom, or to defraud or
deceive any creditor to whom I am indebted, in any manner
whatsoever, so help me God."
Sec. 3849. Sec. 5. The Judge to whom such application shall
be made, shall make an order requiring all the creditors of such
insolvent to show cause, if they can, why an assignment of the
insolvent estate should not be made, and he be discharged from
his debts. Said schedule being signed and sworn to by the
petitioner, the Judge shall certify the same, and cause it and
the petition to be filed in the office of the Clerk of the court, in
the county where the petitioner resided at the time of making
the application, there to remain for the information of the
creditors.
Sec. 3850. Sec 6. The insolvent debtor, on the surrender of
his property, shall include and set forth in his schedule, his
whole estate, and all such property as may by law be exempt
on execution from seizure and forced sale ; and it shall be the
duty of the Judge having jurisdiction of the failure to exempt
and set apart for the use and benefit of said insolvent such real
and personal property as he is by law authorized to retain to
his own use, or that of his family.
Sec. 3851. Sec. 7. The insolvent shall, at the time of making
his application, deliver to the court all the commercial or other
books he may have kept, all vouchers, notes, bonds, bills,
securities, or other evidences of debt, in an)' manner relating to
or having any bearing upon or connected with his estate, and
all such books, papers, and securities shall be deposited in the
Clerk's office of the said court, and the Clerk shall hand them
over to the assignee who may be appointed.
Sec. 3852. Sec 8. The Judg e granting the order for a meeting
of the creditors shall direct the Clerk to issue a notice calling the creditors of the insolvent to be and appear on a day, not
less than thirty days from the date of the order, before said
Judge, at chambers, in open court, to show cause why the prayer
of the insolvent should not be granted. Such notice shall be
served upon the creditors of the insolvent by depositing a copy
of the same in the postoffice, postage prepaid, directed to the
said creditors at their places of residence respectively, and shall
be so deposited at least thirty days before the day on which the
said creditors are recpiired to appear, and in addition thereto
the said notice shall be published at least thirty days in a news
paper, to be designated by the Judge, printed in the county in
which application is made, if there be one ; if there be none.
Sec. 3853. Sec. 9. At the time of granting the order for u
meeting of the creditors, the Judge shall make an order, directed
to the Sheriff of the county wherein such application is made,
directing him to take into his custody all the property of the
insolvent, except his books, vouchers, papers and securities ;
excepting, also, any and all such property as may have been
set apart by s;tid Judge for the use and benefit of the insolvent
and his family, as provided in section six of this Act, and the
said Sheriff shall immediately take and retain in his possession
all the property of the said insolvent until an assignee shall
have been chosen, when the same shall be delivered by him to
the said assignee. —An amended, Slain. 1885, 29.
Sec. 3854. Sec. 10. When issuing the order for the meeting
of creditors, the Judge shall order that all proceedings against
the debtor shall be stayed.
Sec. 3855. Sec. 11. At the meeting of creditors, the said
creditors having certified on oath that their respective claims are
legitimate and true, shall proceed to the appointment of an
assignee. In appointing assignees the opinion of the majority
of snid creditors in amount shall prevail. At such meeting any
creditor may be represented by his duly authorized agent or
attorney-in-fact.
Sec. 3856. Sec. 12. Such appointment of the assignee shall
be confirmed by the Judge, who shall make and enter au order
to that effect.
Sec. 3857. Sec. 13. The Judge shall require from the assignee
a bond with one or more good and sufficient sureties, conditioned
for the faithful performance of the duties devolving upon said
assignee. The amount of such bond shall be determined by
the majority of creditors. Should the creditors fail to deter
mine the same, the amount of said bond shall be fixed by the
Judge of the court having jurisdiction of the proceedings.
Sec. 3858. Sec. 14. The assignee shall apply by petition to
the Judge, who shall have ordered a meeting of the creditors,
to be authorized to sell at public auction, and to the best and
highest bidder for cash, all the insolvent debtor's property, of
whatsoever nature or kind, and said assignee shall give at least
twenty days public notice by publication in a newspaper pub
lished in the county of all sales of the property of said insolvent,
giving at the same time a full description of the property to be
disposed of ; provided, however, that if any of the property sur
rendered be of a perishable nature, the assignee shall be
authorized to sell the simc on orivincr at least five davs notice
be sued, either as plaintifffs or defendants, in everything' which
respects the rights and actions which may belong to the in
solvent, or which may concern the mass of the creditors. All
suits brought against the insolvent, prior to his surrender of
property, before the courts of other counties, shall be trans
ferred to the court having jurisdiction in the count}" in which
said insolvent shall have presented his schedule, and may be
continued on motion and notice against his assignee.
Sec. 3860. Sec. 16. Whenever a dividend shall be declared,
the assignee shall make out a statement containing the names
of the several creditors, mentioning the sums which are due
them respectively. And the said statement shall, besides, con
tain the pro rata sums to be divided among all the creditors ;
said assignee shall deposit said statement in the Clerk's olHce of
the court, who shall order that notice be given to the creditors,
in the same manner as for the meeting, that they show cause,
within fifteen days next following the publication, why the said
statement should not be accepted, and the distribution made
agreeable to its contents. Two or more creditors may, at any
time, make a motion to know if the assignee has funds in his
hands, and the said assignee shall be required to present his
accounts, and if he has funds, he distribute them without delay.
Sec. 3861. Sec. 17. Should the assignee refuse or neglect to
render his account, as recpaired by the preceding section, or to
pay over a dividend when he shall have, in the opinion of the
court, sufficient funds for that purpose in his hands, the court
shall immediately discharge such assignee from his trust, and
shall have power to appoint another in his place. The assignee
so discharged shall deliver to the one so appointed by the court
all the funds, property, books, vouchers and securities belong
ing to the insolvent, without charging any commission or ex
penses thereon, and shall also be condemned to pay the new
assignee, for the benefit of the mass of the creditors, twenty per
cent, in addition to the amount of funds in his hands. ,
Sec. 3862. Sec. 18. If on the day appointed for the first meeting
of creditors, the creditors, although duly summoned, do
not attend, or refuse to appoint an assignee, it shall be lawful
for the Judge before whom the said meeting may take place, to
appoint the Sheriff of the county such assignee, with full power
as other assignees, and for the faithful performance of said
trust he shall be responsible on his official bond.
Sec. 3863. Sec. 19. The assignee shall be entitled to charge,
and receive, for his services, to-wit : Eight per centum upon a'
sum not exceeding ten thousand ($10,000) dollars ; five per
centum upon sums above ten thousand ($10,000) dollars and
not exceeding thirty thousand (§30,000) dollars ; three per
centum upon all sums above thirty thousand ($30,000) dollars ;
provided, that said commission be allowed only on such net
sums of money as shall actually come to his hands or be dis
tributed by him ; the mass of creditors shall in no manner be
liable for fees of counsel of the insolvent debtor in conducting
the surrender of the property.
Sec. 3864. Sec 20. If , after the appointment of said assignee,
any one Q£ ^e cret|jtors 0f tjle iUSolvent debtor should deem
necessary to oppose such assignment, on the ground of some
fraud having been committed by the insolvent debtor, or of the
appointment not having been legally made, he shall, within
thirty days next following the appointment of said assignee,
lay before the court which has already taken cognizance of the
case, his written opposition, stating specifically the several facts
of nullity of the said appointment, or of the fraud by him
alleged against the insolvent debtor, whereupon, in case of
accusation of fraud after having received the said insolvent's
answer, the court shall order a jury to be summoned of not less
than six men, to be summoned in the same manner as juries are
summoned in the district court, for the purpose of deciding on
the said accusation.
Sec. 3865. Sec. 21. On the day or at the term appointed in
such order, or any subsequent day or term, the court shall pro
ceed to hear the proofs and allegations of the parties, and before
any other proceedings be had shall require proof of the mailing
and publication of the notice as herein provided.
Sec. 3866. Sec. 22. Upon such accusation of fraud the cred
itor who shall have brought the same shall have the right to
interrogate the insolvent debtor on oath, and put to him
such written questions as to the state of his affairs and the sev
eral transactions in which he may have been engaged anterior
to his failure, as he may think proper, and the insolvent shall
answer in writing to the said interrogatories, in a pertinent and
distinct manner, and every equivocal answer on his part shall
be construed against him.
Sec. 3867. Sec. 23. If the jury summoned for the purpose of
deciding on the accusation of fraud brought against such in
solvent debtor declare in their verdict that said insolvent has
been guilty of fraud, the said debtor shall forever be deprived
of the benefit of the laws passed for the relief of insolvent
debtors in this state.
Sec. 3868. Sec. 24. If the accusation of fraud brought against
the debtor is declared to be ill founded, or if no opposition be
made within the time herein provided, and provided the said
debtor has in all things complied with the provisions of this
Act, the said debtor shall be released and fully discharged from
any and all debts until then contracted and contracted after the
passage of this Act, and from any judicial proceedings relative
to the same ; prodded, always, that said insolvent debtors shall
'«> released and discharged onlv for such debts and liabilities
prisonment at hard labor in the state prison for a term of not
less than six months nor more than two years.
Sec. 3870- Sec. 2(i. If the Judge before whom the accusation
of fraud, or opposition to the appointment of the assignee is
made, thinks that the interest of the mass of creditors of the
insolvent may suffer by a delay of the approval of the appoint
ment of the assignee, it shall be lawful for the said Judge, all
opposition notwithstanding, to approve previously the said
appointment, if he finds that it has been made agreeably to law.
Sec. 3871. Sec. 27. Tliiit all persons shall be considered as
fraudulent bankrupts who shall be convicted of having concealed
their property with the intention to keep i.t from their
creditors, as also those who shall be convicted of having con
cealed or altered their books or papers with the same intention.
3S72. Sec. 28. That every insolvent debtor shall also be
considered as a fraudulent bankrupt who shall be convicted of
having passed sham deeds for the purpose of conveying the
whole or any part of his property, and depriving his creditors
thereof, or of having knowingly omitted to declare any of his
property, rights or claims in his schedule, or of having pur
loined his books or any of them, or having altered, changed,
or made them anew, with an intent to defraud his creditors, or
of having alienated, mortgaged or pledged any of his property,
with intent to defraud or prejudice his creditors ; and any sale,
mortgage or alienation of any property of the debtor made by
him within a month preceding the tiling of a petition in in
solvency, and made with intent to give a preference to one or
more of his creditors, shall be void. —-As amended, Stats. 1883, 94.
Sec. 3873. Sec. 29. If any debtor shall be convicted of having,
at any time within three months next preceding his failure, sold,
engaged, or mortgaged any of his goods and effects, or of hav
ing otherwise assigned, transferred, or disposed of the same, or
any part thereof, or confessed judgment in order to give a pref
erence to one or more of his creditors over the others, whereby
to receive any advantage in anticipation of his failure to the
prejudice of his creditors, he shall be debarred the benefit of
this Act.
Sec. 3874. Sec. 30. All insolvent debtors owing, or accountable
in any manner, for public funds or property, of whatever
nature or kind, all unfaithful depositaries, all such as refuse or
neglect to pay up all funds received by them as bankers, brokers,
commission merchants, or for money, goods, or effects, received
by them in a fiduciary capacity, shall be denied the benefits of
this Act.
Sec. 3873- Sec. 31. If, after the presentation of his petition,
the insolvent shall sell, or in any manner transfer or assign,
any of his property, or collect any debts due him, and shall not
give a just and true account of the property so sold or trans
ferred, and the monies so collected, and pay the same over to
the assignee within ten davs after his appointment, said debtor
shall not receive the benefit of this Act.
Sec. 3876. Sec. 32. Whenever any insolvent debtor hits had
the benefit of this Act, if thereafter at any time it is made to
appear that he has concealed any part of his property or estate,
or given a false schedule, or committed any fraud under the
provisions of this Act, it is hereby declared that he has forfeited
all benefit and advantage which he would otherwise have had
by virtue of this Act, and he cannot avail himself of any of its
provisions in bar to any claim that may be instituted against
lam.
Sec. 3877. Sec 33. No person can apply for or receive the
benefit of this Act through an agent or attorney-in-fact.
Sec. 3878. Sec. 34. From and after the filing of the petition
by the insolvent debtor, all property of such insolvent shall be
fully vested in his assignee fof the benefit of his creditors, and
shall not be liable to be seized, attached, taken, or levied on by
virtue of any execution issued against the property of said
insolvent, and the assignee who may be appointed shall take
possession of and be entitled to claim and recover all the said
property, and to administer and sell the same as herein provided.
Sec. 3879. Sec 35. In case the debtor who applies for the
benefits of this Act should already have received the benefit of
this Act, he shall not be entitled to his discharge unless the
property surrendered by him amounts to at least fifty per
centum of his liabilities, except that three-fourths of his credit
ors in number and amount consent thereto in writing.
Sec. 38S0- Sec. 3G. All legal mortgages and liens, bona fide,
existing on such property at the time of the surrender, as afore
said, shall remain good and valid, and may be enforeed in the
same manner, due notice being given to the assignee, as though
no such surrender had been made. —As amended, State. 1883, 79.
Sec. 3881. Sec 37. Any failure on the part of the insolvent
debtor to comply with any and all the provisions of this Act will
forever debar him from obtaining his discharge.
Sec. 3882. Sec. 38. The assignee appointed under this Act
shall mace out a true account of all disbursements made by him
in the discharge of his duties as assignee, which shall be verified
by the oath of such assignee, and shall deliver the same to the
Judge having jurisdiction of the subject matter, and such Judge
shall, in writing, certify such part or parts of the same as he
shall doom to be just and necessarily expended by said assignee
in the discharge of his duty, which amount so allowed shall be
paid out of the property of such insolvent debtor.
. 3883. Sec. 39. No assignment of any insolvent debtor
otherwise than is provided in this Act shall be legal or binding
upon creditors.
Sec. 3884. Sec 40. An adjudication of insolvency may be
made on the petition of five or more creditors, residents of this
by assignment within thirty days prior to the filing of said
petition ; such petition must be filed in the district court of the
county, or city and county, in which the debtor resides or hasfl
his place of business, and must be verified by at least three of
the petitioners, setting forth that such person is about to depart
from the state with intent to defraud his creditors, or being
absent from the state with such intent, remains absent, or con
ceals himself to avoid the service of legal process, or, being
insolvent, has suffered his property to remain under attachment
or legal process for four days, or has confessed or offered to
allow judgment in favor of any creditors, or willfully suffered
judgment to be taken against him by default, or has suffered or
procured his property to be taken on legal process with intent
to give a preference to one or more of his creditors, or has made
an assignment, gift, sale, conveyance or transfer of his estate,
property, rights or credits, with intent to delay, defraud or
hinder his creditors, or, in contemplation of insolvency, has
made any payment, gift, grant, sale, conveyance or transfer of
his estate, property, rights or credits, or bus been arrested or
held in custody by virtue of any civil process of court, founded
on any debt or demand, and such process remains in force and
not discharged by payment or otherwise for a period of four
days, or, being a merchant or tradesman, has stopped or suspended
and not resumed payment within a period of forty days
after maturity of any written acknowledgment of indebtedness,
unless the party holding such acknowledgment has, in writing,
waived the right to proceed under this subdivision ; or, being a
bank or banker, agent, broker, factor or commission merchant,
has failed for forty days to pay any monies deposited with, or
received by him in a fiduciary capacity, upon demand of pay
ment, except savings and loan banks, or associations who loan
the money of their stockholders and depositors on real estate,
and provided in their by-laws for the repayment of such deposits.
The petitioners may from time to time, amend and correct the
petition, so that the same shall conform to the facts, by leave of
the court before which the proceedings are pending ; but
nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate any loan
of actual value, or the security therefore, made in good faith,
upon a security taken in good faith on the occasion of the
making of such loan ; the said petition shall be accompanied by
a bond, with two sureties, in the penal sum of at least five hundred
($500) dollars, conditioned that if the debtor should not
be declared an insolvent, the petitioners will pay all costs and
damages, including a reasonable attorney fee, which the debtor
may sustain by reason of the filing of said petition. The court
may, upon motion, direct the filing of an additional bond, withb
different sureties, when deemed necessary.
Sec. 3883- Sec. 41. Upon the filing of such creditors' petition,
mny make an order forbidding the payment of any debts and
the delivery of any property belonging to such debtor, to him,
or for his use, or the transfer of any property by him.
Sec. 3886- Sec. i'2. A copy of said petition, with a copy of
the order to show cause, shall be served on the debtor in the
same manner as is provided by law for the service of summons
in civil actions, but such service shall be made at least ten days
before the time fixed for the hearing ; provided, that if, for any
reason, the service is not made, the order may be renewed,
and the time and place of hearing changed, or, by a supple
mental order by the court, or if such debtor cannot be found,
or his place of abode ascertained, service shall be made by pub
lication, as is provided in the civil practice Act for service of
summons by publication.
Sec. 3887. Sec. 43. At the time for the hearing of said order
to show cause, or such other time as it may be adjourned to,
the debtor may demur to the petition for the same causes as are
provided for demurrer in other cases by the civil practice Act.
If the demurrer be overruled, the debtor shall have ten days
thereafter in which to answer the petition. If the debtor
answers the petition, such answer shall contain a specific denial
of the material allegations of the petition controverted by him,
and shall be verified in the same manner as pleadings in civil
actions, and the issues raised thereon may be tried with or with
out a jury, according to the practice provided by law for the
trial of civil actions.
Sec. 3883. Sec. 44. If the respondent shall make default, or
if, after a trial, the issues are found in favor of the petitioners,
the court shall make an order- adjudging that said respondent
is, and was at the time of filing the petition an insolvent debtor,
and shall require said debtor, within such time as the court may
designate, to file in court, the schedule and inventory provided
for in sections three and four of this Act, and thereupon all
proceedings shall be had in said matter in the same mauner as
if said debtor had voluntarily filed his petition.
Sec. 3889. Sec. 45. If upon such hearing or trial, the issues
are found in favor of the respondent, the proceedings shall be
dismissed, and the respondent shall recover costs from the
petitioning creditors, in the same manner as on final judgment
in civil actions.
Sec. 3890. Sec. 46. If the debtor has failed to appear after
service, personally or by publication, or is absent, or cannot be
found, the schedule and inventory may be prepared by the
Sheriff or by the assignee from the best information he can
obtain.
Sec. 3891. Sec. 47. Two or more persons who are partners in
business mav be adiudtred insolvent either on the uetition of
separate estate of each of the partners shall be taken, excepting
such parts thereof as may be exempt by law, and all the creditors of the company, and the separate creditors of each partner,
shall be allowed to prove their respective debts, and the assignee
shall be chosen by the creditors of the copartnership, and shall
also keep separate accounts of the joint stock, or property of
the copartnership, and of the separate estate of each member
thereof ; and after deducting out of the whole amount received
by such assignee the whole amount of the expenses and dis
bursements, the net proceeds of the joint stock shall be
appropriated to pay the creditors of the copartnership, and
the net proceeds of the separate estate of each partner shall
be appropriated to pay his separate creditors, and if there
shall be any balance of the separate estate of any partner
after the payment of his separate debts, such balance shall
be added to the joint stock for the -payment of the
joint creditors, and if there shall be any balance of the
joint stock after the payment of the joint debts, such bal
ance shall be divided and appropriated to and among the
separate estates of the several partners according to their
respective rights and interest therein and as it would have
been if the partnership h;id been dissolved without any insolvency,
and the sum so appropriated to the separate estate of each^
partner shall be applied to the payment of his separate debts,
and the certificates of discharge shall be granted or refused to
each partner as the same would or ought to be if the proceed
ings had been by or against him alone under this Act, and in all
other respects the proceedings as to partners shall be conducted
in like manner as if they had been commenced and prosecuted
by or against one person alone. If such copartners reside in
different counties, the court in which the petition is first filed
shall retain exclusive jurisdiction over the case. If the petition
be filed by less than all the partners of a copartnership, those
partners who do not join in the petition shall bo ordered to
show cause why they should not be adjudged to be insolvent in
the same manner as other debtors are required to show cause,
upon a creditors' petition as in this Act provided.
Sec. 3892. Sec. 48. The provisions of this Act shall apply to
corporations, and upon the petition of any officer of any corporation, duly authorized by the vote of the Board of Directors or
Trustees, at a meeting specially called for that purpose, or by
the assent, in writing, of a majority of the Directors or Trus
tees, as the case may be, or upon a creditor's petition made and
presented in the manner provided in the case of debtors, a]J the
provisions of this Act which apply to the debtor or set forth his
duties, examination, or liabilities, or prescribe penalties, or re
late to fraudulent conveyances, payments, and assignments
applied to each and every officer of any corporation in relation
to the same matters concerning the corporation. Whenever
any corporation is declared insolvent all its property and assets
shall be distributed to the creditors ; but no discharge shall be
granted to any corporation.
Sec. 3893. Sec. 49. All Acts relating to the subject matter
contained in this Act and all Acts and parts of Acts in conflict
with the provisions of this Act are hereby repealed ; provided,
however, that such repeal shall in no manner invalidate or affect
any case in insolvency instituted and pending in any court
prior to the day when this Act shall take effect, nor shall the
provisions of this Act deprive any person of the benefits of this
Act as to any indebtedness contracted prior to the taking- effect
of this Act.
Sec. 3894. Sec. 50. An appeal may be taken to the supreme
COnrt in the followimg cases : First—From an order granting
or refusing an adjudication of insolvency. Second —Allowing or
rejecting a creditor's claim in whole or in part. Third—Over
ruling a motion for a new trial. Fourth—Settling an account
of an assignee. Fifth—Against or in favor of setting apart
homestead or other property claimed as exempt from execution.
Sixth—Granting or refusing a discharge to the debtor. Sev
enth—From an order staying all proceedings against the in
solvent. The notice, undertaking, and procedure on appeal
shall conform to the general laws of this state regulating appeals
in civil cases, except that when the assignee has given an official
undertaking and appeal from a judgment or order in insolvency
his official undertaking stands in the place of an undertaking on
appeal, and the sureties therein arc liable on such undertaking.
Borryman v. Stem, 14 Xev. 415 ; Barker v. McLcod, It Xev. 148;
Surlier v. Iniinel. 13 Xev. 2(>T>; State ex rcl. Harnett v. Fifth
Judicial District Court, IS Xev. 280.
An Act to enable a certain class of claimants against the stale to
appeal to the courts.
Approved March 2, 1869. 104.
Sec. 3893. Section 1. Any officer or person who has presented
a claim against the state for services or advances authorized by
law, and for which an appropriation has been made, but of
which the amount has not been fixed by law, to the Board of
Examiners, which claim said board or the State Controller has
refused to audit and allow, in whole or in part, may commence
an action in any court in Oruisby county having jurisdiction of
the amount, for the recovery of such portion of the claim as
shall have been rejected. In such action the State of Nevada
shall be named as defendant, and the summons shall be served
upon the State Controller, and the action shall proceed as other
civil actions to final judgment.
Sec. 33Qfi. Sec. 2. The Attornev-General shall defend all such
cause to be introduced such documentary evidence as he shall
deem necessary for the defense, and the sum of five hundred
dollars is hereby appropriated, out of monies in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated, for the purpose of defraying any
necessary expense in obtaining- evidence and payment of costs
for the defense of such actions. Appeals may be taken in all
such actions by the Controller in behalf of the state.
Sec. 3897. Sec. 3. Upon the presentation of a certified copy
of a final judgment in favor of the claimant in any such action,
the Controller shall draw his warrant in favor of the claimant
for the amount awarded by the judgment.
An Act requiring compensation for causing death by wrongful
acts, neglect, or default.
Approved February 28, 1871,90.
Sec. 389S. Section. 1. Whenever the death of a person shall
be caused by wrongful act, neglect, or default, and the act, neglect,
or default is such as would ('if death had not ensued] have
entitled the party injured to maintain an action and recover
damages in respect thereof, then, and in every such case, the
persons who, or the corporation which would have been liable,
if death had not ensued, shall be liable to an action for dam
ages, notwithstanding the death of the person injured ; and
although the death shall have been caused under such circum
stances as amount in law to a felony.
Sec. 3899- Sec. 2. The proceeds of any judgment obtained in
any action brought under the provisions of this Act shall not'
be liable for any debt of the deceased ; provided, he or she shall
have left a husband, wife, child, father, mother, brother, sister,
or child or children of a deceased child ; but shall be distrib
uted as follows: First— If there be a surviving husband or wife,
and no child, then to such husband or wife ; if there be a sur
viving husband or wife, and a child or children, or grandchil
dren, tfien, equally to each, the grandchild or children tal ing
by right of representation ; if there be no husband or wife, but
a child or children, or grandchild or children, then to such
child or children and grandchild or children by right of repre
sentation ; if there be no child or grandchild, then to a surviv
ing brother or sister, or brothers or sisters, if there be any ;
if there be none of the kindred hereinbefore named, then the
proceeds of such judgment shall be disposed of in the manner
authorized by law for the disposition of the personal property
of deceased persons ; provided, every such action shall be
brought by and in the name of the personal representative or
representatives of such deceased person ; and, providedfurther,
the jury in every such action may give- such damages, pecuniary nnd exemplary, as they shall deem fair and just, and may
take into consideration the pecuniary injury resulting from such
death to the kindred as herein named.
An Act concerning the determination of conflicting rights to mining
claims in certain cases.
Approved February 10, 1873, SO.
Sec. 3900. Section 1. In all actions brought to determine the
rigU^ 0f possession of a mining claim, or metalliferous vein or
lode, where an application has been made to the proper officers
of the government of the United States by either of the parties
to such action for a patent for said mining claim, vein, or lode,
it shall only be necessary to confer jurisdiction on the court to
try said action, and render a proper judgment therein, that it
appear that an application for a patent for such mining claim,
vein, or lode has been made, and that the parties to said action
are claiming such mining claim, vein, or lode, or some part
thereof, or the right of possession thereof.

