AN ACT

To amend the act entitled “An act to Simplify
and Abridge the Practice, Pleadings, and Proceedings of the Courts of this State,” passed
April 12, 1848.

Passed April 11, 1849.

The act entitled “ An act to simplify and abridge the
gractice, pleadings, and proceedings of the courts of this
ta

te,” passed April 12, 1848, is hereby amended so as to
read as follows : '

AN ACT

To Simplify and Abridge the Practice, Pleadings,
and proceeding! of the Courts of this State.

Wnnnms, it is expedient, that the present forms of actions
and pleadings in cases at common law should be abolished, that the distinction between legal and equitable remedies should no longer continue, and that an uniform

course of proceeding, in all cases, should be established:
Therefore, '

1'1» People y the State qf .1v'eu?- York, represented in Senate and Jissembly, do enact as follows :

GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND DIVISIONS.

Storm: 1. Division of remedies.

mmmmmummmm

Definition of a special proceeding.

Division of actions into civil and criminal.

Dennition of a criminal action.

Deinition of a civil action.

Civil and criminal remedies, not merged in each other.
Subjects embraced in this act.

.°°.".°°.°':“.°°!°

t SECTION I. Remedies in the courts of justice are dividd
into,

1. Actions; \

2. Special proceedings.

§ 2. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of
justice, by which a party prosecutes another party for the
enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public otfenee.

§ 3. Every other remedy is a special proceediig.

§ 4. Actions are of two kinds:

1. Civil;

2. ‘Criminal.

§ 5. A criminal action is prosecuted by the people of
the state, as a party, against a person charged with a public offense, for the punishment thereof.

§ 6. Every other is a civil action.

§ 7. Where the violation of a right admits of both 3
civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one
is not merged in the other.

§ 8. This act is divided into two parts: '

The first relates to the courts of justice, and their jurisdiction ;

‘ The second relates to civil actions commenced in the
courts of this state, after the tirst day of July, 1848, except
when otherwise provided therein, and is distributed int»
iifteen titles. The first four relate to actions in all the
courts of the state, and the others, to actions in the Sir
preme court, in the county courts, in the superior court «:1
the‘ city of New-York, in the court of common pleas for
the city and county of N ew-York, in the mayors’ courts 05
cities, and in the recorders’ courts of cities, and to appeali

to the court of appeals, to the supreme court, to the count:
courts, and to the superior court of the city of N ew—York.

I
t'

PART 1.

OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE, AND THEIR JURISDICTION.

TITLE I. 01 run Oounrs IN aunun.
II. Or run Counr or APPEALS.
III. 01 run Surnnnx Counr; Cxncuxr COUB.1'§;AND Counts or
On: AND Tsnxmnn.
IV. Or rm: Couurr Counrs. ,
V. Or run Surmuon Count, up Count or Connor Pun
xx ran Crrr or Nnw Your, AND run lhrons’ AND
Rnoonnnns’ Counrs IN orunn. orruzs.
VI. Or run: Conn-rs or J unions or run Pucn. .
VII. Or Jumons’ any ornnn. Ixnmon COUBTB Ll onus.

TITLE I.
0/ the Courts, in General.

Sac-rrox 9. The several courts of this state.
10. Their jurisdiction generally.

{} 9. The following are the courts of justice of this state:
I . The court for the trial of impeachments.

2. The court of appeals.

3. The supreme court.

4.‘ The circuit courts.

5. The courts of oyer‘and terminer.

6. The county courts.

7. The courts of sessions.

8. The courts of special sessions.

9. The surrogates’ courts.

10. The courts of justices of the peace.

11. The superior court of the city of New-York.

12. The court of common pleas for the city and county

of New-York.

13. The mayors’ courts of cities.

14. The recorders’ courts of cities.

15. The marine court of the city of N ew-York.

16. The justices’ courts in the city of N ew-York.

17. The justices’ courts of cities.

18. The police courts.

§ 10. These courts shall continue to exercise the jurisdiction now vested in Ecru respectively, except as otherwiseprescribed by this act.

TITLE II.
Of the Court of 

Rs jurisdiction.

Sac‘!-Ion 11.
12. May reverse, amrm or modify judgmentororder appealed
18.

from.
Terms of the court. Preference of causes.

14. Number of judges who may give judgment.
15. Sherifs to provide rooms, to for court.

18. Court may be adjourned to  other tlnn than «IAnated by law.

, § 11. The court of appeals shall have exclusive 
to review; upon appeal, every actual determination hereafter
made at a general term, by the supreme court, or by the superiorcourtof the city qfJV'ew Yorlc,orcourt ofconunonpleu
for the city and county qf.N'ew York, in  cases,
and no other : ‘

Llna judgment inan action commenced the-ein,or
brought there from another court; and upon the qpaalfroau
such judgment, to review any intermediate order  the
merits, and necessarily afecting the judgment :

2, In an order afecting a substantial right, made in such
action, when such order in eject determines the action, aalprevents a from which an appeal might be taken :

3. Inajinal order, qfecting a substantial sight madein a
special proceeding, or upon a summary agrlication, in an
action, after judgment -'

4. In an ordergranting anew trial, but such an appeal slid
not be allowed in an action originally commenced in a court qf
a justice of the peace, or in the marine court of the city qf.N'eieYork, or in an assistant justices’ court of that city, or in ajustices’ court of any of the cities of this state.

{} 12. The court of appeals may reverse, affirm, or modify the judgment or order appealed from, in whole or in

part, and as to any or all of the parties; and its judgment
shall be remitted to the ‘court below, to be enforced according to law.
§ 13. There shall be jhur terms Q)’ the court of appeals, in

cachyear,te be held at thecapitol inthecityq/'..dlbausy,on
the first ‘ Tuesday of January, the fourth Tuesday of March,
the third Tuesday of June, and the third Tuesday Qf September, and continued for as long a period as the public interests
may require. .

./fdditional terms shall be appointed and held at the same
place by the court when the public interest requires it. The
court may, by general rules, provide what causes shall have a
preference on the calendar.

§14. The concurrence of jive judges is necessary to pro-A
nounce ajudgment. Ifjce do not concur, the case must be‘,
re-heard. But no more than two reahearings shall be had,‘
and if, on the second re-hearing, Jive judges do not concur, the
_';'udgment shall be cmirmed. §15. Ifataterm of the court otfappeals, proper and
convenient rooms, both for the consultation of the
and the holding of the court, with furniture, attendants,
fuel, lights and stationery, suitable and suilicient for the

. transaction of its business, be not provided for it, in the

place where by law the court may be held, the court may
order the sheriff of the county to make such provision,
and the expense incurred by him in carrying the order
into efect, shall be a county charge.

(} 16. The court of appeals may beheldinotherbuildingu
than those designated by law as places for  courts, and l
at 4 dgrermtplqcein the same ceyfm :1»: at waschuaf
appointed to be held. Any one or more  the judge: may ad. “
journ the court, with the like feet as if all were precast.

TITLE III.

Of the Supreme Court, Circuit Courts, and Coats 9’
Oyer and Tmniner.

Swnos 17. Existing statute provision, as to terms and bnsina attic
courts repeal , and order of supreme court using an
terms, tc., abrogated.

18. General terms prescribed.

19. Number of judges to give judgment.

20. Special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terninsr,

prescribed.

21. Circuit courts and oyer and terminer held together.
Designation of times and places of holding courts; how made.
23. Extraordinary general and special terms, and oyer and terminer; how appointed.

24. Places of holding the courts.

25. Publication of appointment thereof.

26. Whenjudges not auigned may hold the courts.

27. Duties of judges as to business out of court.

28. Rooms, fuel, &c.; how furnished.

.53

§ 17. All statutes now in force, providing for the designation of the times and places of holding the general and

'special terms of the supreme court, and the circuit courts
‘and courts of oyer and terminer, and of the judges who.shs1l
,hold the same, are repealed, from and after the first day
‘of July, one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight; and
the order of the supreme court, adopted July fourteen, one
thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, prescribing the
times and places of holding the general and special terms
of the court, and the circuit courts and courts of oyer and
terminer, during the residue of the year one thousand
eight hundred and forty-seven and for the years one thousand eight hundred and forty—eight and one thousand eight
hundred and forty-nine, and assigning the business and
duties thereof to the several judges of the court is, from and
after the first day of July, one thousand eight hundred and
forty-eight, abrogated; and the provisions of this title are
substituted in place thereof.
§»18. At least four general terms of the supreme court
shall be held annually in each judicial district, and as many more as the judges in such district shall appoint, at

such times and places as a majority of the judges of such
district shall appoint.

(} 19. The concurrence of a majority of the judges hold-§
ing a general term, shall be necessary to pronounce a judg-g
ment. If a majority do not concur, the case shall be reheard.

{} 20. There shall be at least two terms of the circuit:
court and court of oyer and terminer held annually in each;
of the counties of this state, andas many more terms there-}
of, and as many special terms as the judges of each judi-'
cial district shall appoint therein, but at least one special
term shall be held annually in each of said counties. Fulton and Hamilton shall be considered one county for the
purposes of this section.

()2! . Circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminer,;
shall be held at the same places, and commenced on the:
same day. §

§ 22. The governor shall, on or before the first day of
May, one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight, by appointment in writing, designate the times and places of
holding the general and special terms, circuit courts, and
courts of oyer and terminer, and the judges by whom they
shall be held; which appointment shall take eifect Pm the
first day of July thereafter, and shall continue until the

thirty first day of December, one thousand eight hundred
and forty-nine. The judges of the supreme court of each
district shall, in like manner, at least one month before
the expiration of that time, appoint the times and places
of holding those courts for two years, commencing on the
first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and iifty,
and so on, for every two succeeding years, in their respective districts.

{} 23. The governor may also appoint extraordinary
general and special terms, circuit courts, and ‘courts of
oyer and terminer whenever, in his judgment, the public
good shall require it.

{}24. The places appointed within the several coudienfu
holding the general and special terms, circuit court: and coat:
of oyer andterniner, shall bethosedesignated bystdstefw
holding county or circuit courts. [f a room for holding the
court in such place shall not be provided by the supervisan, it
may be held in any room provided for that purpose, by the
shevjf, as prescribed by section twenty-eight.

General and special terms of the supreme or county curl:
and circuit courts and courts of oyer and terminer, maybe
adjourned to be held on any future day, by an entry to tvz
made in the minutes of the court ; and juries may be drain
and summoned for an adjourned circuit or county court, or as
adjourned court of oyer and terminer, and cause: may be asticed for trial at an adjourned circuit or county court, in the
same manner as  such courts were held by original appointment.
a t; 25. Every appointment so made, shall be immediately

transmitted to the secretary of state, who shall cause it to
be published in the newspaper, printed at Albany, in
which legal notices are required to be inserted, at least
once in each week, for three weeks before the holding of
any court in pursuance thereof. The expense of the publicadon shall be paid out of the treasury of the state.

§ 26. In case of the inability, for any cause, of a judge

assigned for that purpose, to hold a special term or 
court, or sit at a general term, or preside at a court of

oyer and terminer, any other judge may do so.

(3 27. The judges shall at all reasonable time, when not
engaged in holding court, transact such other businemas
may be done out of court. Every proceeding commenced
before one of the judges, in the first judicial district, may
be continued before another, with the same eifect $ if
commenced before him.

§ 28. The supervisors of the several counties shall provide the courts appointed to be held therein with room,
attendants, fuel, lights and stationery, suitable and suicient for the transaction of their bWls1ness- If the supervisors neglect, the court may order the she:-iii’ to do so;

and the expense incurred by him in carrying the order
into efect, when certified by the court, shall be a county

charge.

TITLE IV.

0/ the County Courts.

Stones 29. Repeal of existing statutes defining their jurisdiction.
80. Their jurisdiction.
31. General terms, when held. Notice to be published.
82. Jurors, how drawn and summoned.

(329. All-statutes now in force, conferring or dehning}
the jurisdiction of the county courts, so far as they conilieti
with this act, are repealed; and those courts shall have’:
no other jurisdiction than that provided in the next section. But the repeal contained in this section shall not
rifect any proceedings now pending in those courts.

§30. The county court has jurisdiction in the following:
rpecial cases, but has no original civil jurisdiction except in
ruch cases°

1. Civil actions in which the relief demanded is the recovery of a sum of money not exceeding five hundred dollars,
)1‘ the recovery of the possession of personal property not exreeding in value jive hundred dollars, and in -which all the
lefendants are residents of the county in which the action is
brought at the time of its commencement: subject to the right
f the supreme court upon special motion for good cause
rhozon to remove any such action to the supreme court before
rial.

2. The exclusive power to review in the jirst instance, a
‘wdgment rendered in a civil action by a justice’: court in the
rounty, or by a justices’ court in cities, and to qfirm, reverse
or modify such judgment: . ' i

3. The jbreclosure or satijaction of a mortgage, and the‘
ale of mortgaged premises situated within the county, and

the collection of any deficiency on the mortgage remaining
unpaid, after the sale of the mortgaged premises4. The partition qf real property situated within the couty:
5. The admeasurement of dower in land situated within

the county:

6. The sale, mortgage or other  of the real property situated within the county, of an infant or person of
unsound mind:

7. To compel the specific performance, by an infant, heir
or other person, of a contract made by a party who shall have
died before the performance thereof

8. The care and custody of the person and estate of a lunatic orperson qfunsoundmind, or an habitualdrunlcard,
residing within the county: .

9. The mortgage or sale of the real property situated with‘ in the county, of a religious corporation, and the dispositia
of the proceeds thereof:

10. To exercise the power and authority heretofore vested
in such courts of common pleas, over judgments rendered by
justices of the peace, transcripts of which have been jiled in
the qjices of the county clerks in such counties:

11. To exercise all the powers and jurisdiction conferred
by statute upon the late courts of common pleas of the county,
or the judges or any judge thereof, respecting ferries, fisheries,
turnpike roads, wrecks, physicians, habitual drunkards, isnprisoned, insolvent, absent, concealed or non-resident debtors,
gaol liberties, the removal of occupants from state lands, the
laying out of railroads through Indian lands, and upon appeal from the determination of commissioners of highways,
and all other powers and jurisdiction conferred by statute,

: which has not been repealed, on the late court of common
pleas of the county, or on the county court, since the late courts
of common pleas were abolished, except in the trial and determination of civil actions; and to prescribe the manner of
exercising such jurisdiction, when the provisions of any staO

tute are inconsistent with the organization of the county
court: - '

12. To remit fines and forfeited recognizances in the same
cases and like manner as such power was given by law to
courts of common pleas. ‘ But the first subdivision of this section shall not apply to the county court of the counties of
Kings, Albany, Monroe and Eric.

13. To grant new trials, or afirm, modify or reverse judgments in actions tried in such court upon a bill of exceptions
or case made subject to an appeal to the supreme court.

{} 31. The county court is always open for the transaction
of any business for which no notice is required to be given to
an opposing party. .dt least two terms in each county for
the trial of issues of law or fact, and as many more as the
county judge shall appoint, shall be held in each year at the

places in the counties respectively designated by statute for
holding county or circuit courts, on such days as the county
judge shall from time to time appoint, and may continue as
long as the court deem necessary.

Notice of such appointment shall be published in the state
paper at least four weeks before any such term, and also in a
newspaper, if any, printed in the county; so many of such
terms as the county judge shall designate for that purpose,
in such notice, may be held for the trial of issues of law, and
 and decision of motions and other proceedings at
which no jury shall be required to attend.

{) 32. Jurors tbs the county courts and courts of sessions
;ha1l be drawn from the jury box of the county, and sum-5

noned in the same manner as for the trial of issues at a
sirenit court.

TITLE V.

Of the Superior Court and Court of wmmon Pleas, in
the cit of New-York, and the Mayors’ and Recorders’ our-ts in other cities.

Stories 33. Jurisdiction of the Courts named in this title.
84. Court of Common Pleas for New-York has pore to Iain!
judgments of the Marine and Justices’ Courts.
85. General and specisltermsofthe Superior-CourtandConna

86 B Plelnlts tohbedappointed.

. y W cm e .

37. Judgments where given.

38. Concurrence of two judges necessary,

39. Criers, how appointed. Salaries, how died.
40. Superior Court, of whom to consist.

41. Threejustices ofsuperlor Oourtto beelocted.
42. How voted for.

48. How clasiflcd.

44. Expiration of terms and vacancies how tilled.
45. Powers 0 Judges and their salaries.

46. Terms of uperior Court and by whom held.
47. Certain civil suits may be transferred from the Supreme to

the Superior Court.
48. Jurisdiction of Superior court in such cases.

49. Jndgestohesrtor two years, suitstnnstbu-edfrunn Sumac
court.

50. Appeal to the Court of Appeals.
51. Section 28 applied to Superior Court.

(3 33. The jurisdiction of the superior court of the city
of New-York, of the court of common pleas for the city
and county of N ew-York, of the mayors’ courts of cities,
and of the recorders’ courts of cities, shall extend to tho
tollowing actions: _

1. To the actions enumerated in section one hundred
and twenty-three and one hundned and twenty—four, when
the cause of action shall have arisen, or the subject of the
action shall be situated, within those cities respectively;

2. To all other actions where all the defendants shall
reside, or be personally ‘served with the summons with:
'those cities respectively,'except in the case of mayors’ and
recorders’ courts of cities, which courts shall only have
jurisdiction where all the defendants shall reside within
the cities in which such courts are respectively situated.
The supreme court shall have power and authority to remove, by order, into the said supreme court, and the same

powerand authorityto change the placeof trial toany
other county of this state, of any transitory action pending
in said’ superior court, or court of common pleas for the
city and county of New~York, which it would have, had
such action been commenced in said supreme court; such
order for removal and for change of place of trial shall
be made in the supreme court upon motion and an Ming
acertifiedcopyof suehorder intheouioeof theclerkof
thesaid superior court,or or me said court ofcommon
pleas, such cause shall be deemed to be removed» into the
supreme court, which shall proceed therein as if the same
had originally been commenced there; and the clerk of
either of said courts in which such order shall be filed,
shall forthwith deliver to’ the clerk of the county in which,
by such order, the trial is ordered to be had to be filed in
his omee, all process, pleadings, and proceedings relating
to such cause. i

8. To actions against corporations, created under the
laws of this state, and transacting their general business,
or keeping an oihce for the tranmction of business, within
those cities, -respectively, or established by law therein,
or created by or under the laws of any other state, government or country, for the recovery of any debt or day-_
mages, whether liquidated or not, arising upon contract
mile, executed, ordelivered wimin the state, or upon
any cause 0! action arising therein. _ ..

§ 34. Theeourtofccmmon pleasfor theeity and county‘

of New-York shall also have ‘power to review the judg~5

ments of the marine court of the city of N ew-York, and of
we justices’ courts in that city. *

§ 35-. -The superior court of the city of New-York, and‘
the court of common pleas, for the -city and county of
New-York, shall within twenty days, appoint general and;

special terms -of those courts respectively, ‘and prescribe
the duration thereof; and they may, from -time to time,
respecdvely, alter. such appointments; and hereafter no

fees shall be paid for any service of a judge of eithercl

those courts.

;; 36. A general term\shall be held by at least mat
the judges of those courts respectively, and a special at
by a single judge.

{} 37. Judgments upon appeal shall be given at the
general term; all others, at the special term.

3; 38. The concurrence of two judges shall be necessary
to pronounce a judgment at the general term. If two &
not concur, the appeal shall be re-heard.

{} 39. A crier shall be appointed by the superior court
of the city of New-York, and by the court of common plea
for the city and county of N cw-York respectively, to hold
his office during the pleasure of the court. He shall receive a salary to be fixed by the supervisors of the city
and county of New-York, and paid out of the county
treasury.

§-40. The superior court of the city of New-York shall
from the first day of May, one thousand eight huadnedssd
forty-nine, consist of six justices.

{} 41. Three justices of such superior court, in adaditiol
to the justices now holding oflioe, shall be elected by tht
electors of the city and county of New-York, at the and
charter election to be held in that city on the second Tussday of April, one thousand eight hundred and forty-nine.

{}42. Such justices shall be voted for together on can
ballot, which shall be distinct from any other ballot at
the same election, and deposited in a separate box, marked “superior court.” The votes shall be canvamcd sad
certified in the same manner as votes for the reccadacf
the city of New-York, and s certmcate thereof shall hsfiled .

with the secretary of state.

. _§43. The justices so elected shall, immediately I33
the votes are canvassed, be classihed bylot, to be 
drawn by the register and clerk ofthe city and count! °‘
New-York, in the presence of the mayor or recorder 05

;he‘ cityof New-‘York, andlthq certificateof such drawiiig
ind elassiiication shall be‘ signed by suchregister and clerk
uid by the attending mayor or recorder, and f1léd‘ii1'th'e
iiiices of the register‘ aiid clerk. The classes shall be ’n'i1"m—
>ered first, second, and third, according to the term 0'1’ serrice of each; the ‘first class ‘being ‘that which has the
:l1o'rtest‘time'to serve. ‘The term (if oiiicesof each of seen
ustices shall commence on the first day oi’May‘ o'iie"thduand‘eight hundred and forty-nine, and ‘the ‘term o?’th‘e
ustice of the first class shall‘ expire on the ‘thirty-"first‘day
if December, one thousand eight hundred and fifty‘-one ;
.r the justice of tlie“‘secon'd class,‘ on the ‘thirty-iii’-stday’ 61'
Deeember, one thousand ‘eight hundred and ‘fifty’-three
Ind ‘hf the justiceoi‘ ’the”third‘cla'ss, on the 'thii'ty3-ilrstvdiiy‘
sf’ Deceniber, one thousand eight hundredand ilfty-"'five.‘

'§ 44. After‘the’expi'ra'tio’n of theternis er eaiee uxideer’:
uch classiiication,‘the term of oiiice of all the justicesbfi
be ’ superior 'co'ur‘t of the "city of ‘New-3Yorl: shall ‘be; six’
‘eats; and ‘any vacancy occurring in the offices ‘created
5' this title, shall be filled in the manner prescribed for
iIIin'g vacancies in the ‘oiiiees'of the present ‘justices.

'§ 45. The justices elected pursuant to this title, subjeet‘
3' the provisions contained in section forty-nine, shall’have’:
be same powers,'and’perf'orm the same duties, in‘all ’re-‘
pects, as ‘the present justices of such superior’ cdurt,‘ai1d
hall receive the same salaries payable in like mariner.

§ 46. A general term of the superior court may be held by
ny two of the six justices thereof, and a special term by
ny one of them; and general and special terms, one or
rore of them, may be held at the same time. ’

§ 47. All civil suits at issue at the time of the passage of
his act, that from and after the first of May, 1849, shall
e placed upon the calendar of the supreme court at any
eneral or special term thereof, to be held in the city of
{ew-York, and which shall be in readiness for hearing on

questions of law only, or are equity cases, may by an order of that court or of the judge holding such special term
be transferred to the said superior court of the city of NewYork, and to be heard at the general terms thereof, here
inafter provided for.

§ 48. The said superior court shall have jurisdiction of
every suit so transferred to it, and may exercise the same
powers in respect to every such suit, and any proceedings
therein, as the supreme court might have exercised, if the
suit had remained in that court.

§ 49. It shall be the special duty of the three justices to
be elected under the provisions of this title and. of their
successors, to devote their time and labors, for the term at
two years, from the first of May one thousand eight handred and forty-nine, to the hearing and determination of
the suits transferred from the supreme court and for that
purpose they, or any two of them, shall hold a general
term of the said superior court, of at least two weeksindtr
ration, in each month of the year, except the month of
August.

§ 50. Appeals from the judgments of the superior court
in such suits, may be taken to the court of appeals, in the
same- manner as from the judgments of the. superior court
in actions originally commenced therein.

(} 51 . The provisions of section twenty-eight of this act,

‘shall apply to the said superior court.

TITLE VI. '5

\

0/: the Courts of Justices of the Peace.

Stones 52. Repeal of certain existing provisions.
53.- Jurisdiction of these courts.
54. Jurisdiction in civil actions limited.
55. Answer of title to land.
w.Umammgmmm.
57. Suit before justice to be discontinued. Costs.
58. Proceedings if undertaking not given.
59. The same.
60. New action in supreme court; pleadings therein.
61. Costs of action in supreme court.
62. Proceedings where several causes of action, and answer of title
. as to one.
63. Docketing justices’ judgments, and effect thereof.
64. Rules in justices’ co_urts.
RMJL Hmlmwmu
Pl ings, how put in.
mmwma
Amwn
Pleadings, what to contain.
Demurrer.
hmmmqHn®mmm.
Plaintiff to prove his case, if defendant do not appear.
Proceedings in action on account or instrument for the payment of mono only.
Variance, when isregarded.
Amending pleadings.
Execution, when issuable and returnable.
Execution on justice’s judgment docketed.
Requiring party to exhibit his account.
Certain provisions applicable to these courts.

§ 52. The provisions contained in sections two, three and

I-ll-I||-ll-I||-HI-3
.°‘!“.°°.‘°i"‘.° S°9°.“'.°’S"!“.°°.*°

four, of the article of the Revised Statutes, entitled “ Of.

the jurisdiction of justices’ courts,” as amended by sections
one and two, of the act concerning justices’ courts, passed
May 14, 1840, and the provisions contained in sections 59
to 66, ofthe same article, both inclusive, are repealed, and
the provisions of this . title substituted in place thereof.
But this repeal shall not aifect any action heretofore commenced in a court ofajustice of the peace.

{} 53. Justices of the peaceshall have civil jurisdiction,

in the following actions, and no other:

1. An action arising on contract for the recovery of h

money only, if the sum claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars; 2. An action iior damages for an injury to the person,

or to real property, or for taking, detaining, or injuring
personal property, if the damages claimed do not exceed
one hundred dollars; t

3. ./9n action for a penalty not exceeding one hundred
dollars. ‘

4. An action commenced by attachment of property, as‘
now provided by statute, if the ‘debt or damages claimed
do not exceed one hundred dollars ;

5. An action upon a bond, conditioned for the payment
of money, not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the
penalty exceed that sum, the judgment to be given for the
sum actually due. Where the payments are to be made
by instalments, an action may be broughtfor each instalment as it shall become due;

6. An action upon a surety bond taken by them, though
the penalty or amount claimed exceed one hundred dolhrs;

7. An action on a judgment rendered in .a court of 8
justice of the peace, or of a justices’ or other inferior court
in a city where such action is not prohibited by secion
71 ;

8. To take and enter judgment on the confe$ionof a
defendant where the amount confessed shall not exceed
two hundred andtifty dollars, in the manner prescribed
by article eight, title four, chapter two, of part three of
the Revised Statutes;

9. .67: action for damages for jraud énatlu sale, partial
or exchange of personal property  the damages claimcddi
not accecd one hundred dollars.

§ 54. Butnojasticcof thepeaceahall haveeogninnll

“ of a civil action,

1. In which the people ofthis state are a party, orcepting -forpenaltiesnot exceeding one hundred dollars;

2. Nor where the title to -real property shall come in
question, as provided by sections 55 to 62, both inclusive;

3. Npr of a civil action for an assault, battery, false

imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution criminal conversation, or seduction;

4-. Nor of a matter of account, where the ' sum total of
the accounts of both parties, proved to the satisfaction of
the justice, shall exceed four hundred dollars;

5.- Nor of an action against=an executor or administrator, as such.

{} 55. In every action brought in a court of justice 
the peace where the title to real property shall come in‘
question, the defendant may, either with or without other
matter of defense, set forth in his answer, any matta
showing that such title will come in. question. Such an-'-swer shall be in writing, signed by the defendant or his
atterney,'and delivered to the justice. The justice shall
thereupon countersign the same, and deliver it to - the‘
plaintih‘. ' §66. .z9t‘the time of annoering, the defendant shall 
liberate the justice awritten undertaking, ‘executed-by at least‘
one stgficient surety, and approved by the justice to the efect
that if the pzaenzafshazz, within thirty days thereafter, ac.‘
posite with the justice a summons and complaint in an action
in the =co_unty court, for the some cause, the defendant acid,
within ten days after such deposite, gioe{an  inwriting of the ‘service thereof.°

Where the defendant was arrested in the action ubefirre the
justice, the undertaking shall further provide, that he-will at
alivtiones render himself amenable to the process of the court
duningkthe pendency of the action, and to -such as may be
issued to cnjhrcc the judgment therein. In case of failure to
 the undertaking,‘ the surety shall be liable, not
ca.-needing one hundred doltars.

§ 67. Upon the delivery of the undertaking to the 
the-action before him shall be discontinued, and each party‘
shall pay his own costs. The costs to paid -by either party.
shall be allowed to him, if he recover costs in the action to-be

brought for the same cause in the county courts. If no such
action be brought within thirty days after the delivery of the
undertaking, the defendant’: costs before the justice may be recovered of the plaintiffz

P § 58. If.the undertaking be not delivered to the justice,

_ he shall have jurisdiction of the cause, and shall proceed
therein; and the defendant shall be precluded, in his defense, from drawing the title in question.

:. § 59. If, however, it appear on the trial, from the plaintifff’s own showing, that the title to ‘real property is in
question, and such title shall be disputed by the defendant, the justice shall dismiss the action, and render judgment against the plaintid for the costs. , '

§ 60. When a suit before a justice shall be discontinued by

‘the delivery of an answer and undertaking, as provided in
sections fiftyjive, fifty-six and fifty-seven, the plaintzf may
prosecute an action for the same cause, in the county court,
and shall complain for the same cause of action onlyon which
he relied before the justice; dnd the answer of the defendant
shall set up the same defense only which he made before the
justice. '
§ 61. If the judgment in the county court be for the plaintiff, he shall recover costs; if-it be for the defendant, he shall
recover costs, except that upon a’ verdict he shall pay costs to
the plizintef, unless the judge certify ‘that the title to real
property came in question on the trial.
§ 62. If, in an action before a justice, the  have
severalcausesof action,to oneqfwhichthedgfencejtitle
to real property shall be interposed, and as to such cause, the
dgfendant shall answer and deliver an undertaking, as provided in sections fzfty;five and jifty-six, the justice shall 6:continue the proceedings as to that cause, and the plaintiff may
commence another action therefore in the county court. .8: to
the other causes of action, the justice may continue his proceedings.

§ 63. A justice of the peace, on the demand of a party
in whose favor he shall have rendered a judgment, shallf
give a transcript thereof, which may be filed and docketed
in the oiiice of the clerk of the county where the judgment was rendered. a The time of the receipt of the tram
script by the clerk shall be noted thereon and entered in
the docket; and, from that time, the judgment shall be a
judgment of the county court. A certified transcript of
‘such judgment may be filed and docketed in the clerk’s
oiiice of any other county, and with the like efeet, in
every respect, as in the county where the judgment was
rendered; except that it shall be alien, only from «the
time of filing and docketing the transcript. But no such
judgment for a less sum than twenty-five dollars, exclusive of costs, hereafter docketed, shall be a lien upon, or
enforced against real property. '

§ 64. The following rules shall be observed in the courts
of justices’ of the peace:

1
It

The pleadings in these courts are;
1. The complaint by the plaintiii‘;
2. The answer by the defendant. ,

2. .

The pleadings may be oral, or in writing; it oral the

substance of them shall be entered by the justice in his

docket; if in writing, they shall be filed by him, and a
reference to them shall be made in the docket.

3.

The complaint shall state, in a plain anddireet manner,
the facts constituting the cause of action.

4.

The answer may contain a denial of the complaint, or

of, any part thereof, and also ‘notice in aiplajn anddirect
manner, of any facts constituting a defense.

' 5*.
’ Pleadings are not required to be in any particular form,
but must be such, as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended.

6. ,
Either party may demur to a pleading of his advemry,
or any part thereof, -when it is not suiiiciently explicit to
enable him to .understand it, or it contains no cause of action or defense, although it be taken as true.

7.

If the court deem the objection well founded, it shall
order the pleading to be amended, and, if the party refmo
to amend,‘ the defective pleading shall be disregarded:

8.

In case a defendant does not appear and answer, the
'plaintiti' cannot recover, without proving his case.

9. ’
In an action or defense, founded upon an account oran
instrument for the payment of money only, it shall he satmcient for a party to deliver the account or instrument to

the court, and to state, that there is due to him thereon
from the adverse ‘party a speciued sum, which he claims

to recover or set off.‘

10.

,A=variance1>etween the proof on the trial, and the allegations in a pleading, shall be diaegarded asimmaterial,
unless the court shall be satisfied, that the adverse party
has been misled to his prejudice thereby.

1 1.
‘ The pleadings may be amended at any time before the trial,.
or duringxthe trial,.,or upon appeal, wh_en_by such amendment]
substantial justice-.will be promoted. If the amendment be
made after the joining of the issue, and it be made to appear
to the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjournment
is necessary/‘to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The court
-may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an
amendment the payment of costs to the adverse party.

I

12.

° Execution may be issued on a judgment heretofore or
hereafter renderedjn a '}ustice’s court, at any time within
five -years after the rendition thereof, and sha11.be.returnable sixty days from the date of the same.

13.

If the judgment be docketed with the county clerk, the
execution shall be issued by him to the sheriff of the coun-v

ty, and have the same eEect, and be executed in the same
manner as other executions and judgments of the county
court, except as provided in section 63.

14.

The court may, at the joining of issue, require either
party, at the request of the other, at that or some other
specified time, to exhibit his account on demand, or state
the nature thereo? as far forth as may be in his -power,
and in case of his default preclude him from giving evidence of such parts thereof as shall not have been so ex-«
hibited or stated.

. 15.
.The provisions of this act, respecting forms of action,
parties to actions, the rulesof evidence, and the times of
commencing actions, shall apply to these courts.

TITLE VII.
0f Justices’ and other Inferior Courts in Cities. '

Cnnrnp. I. The marine court of the city of New-York.
II. The justices’ courts in the city of New-York.
III. The justices’ courts of cities.
IV. General provisions.

CHAPTER I.

The Marine Court of the city of .N'ew— York.
Sxcnon 65. Its jurisdiction.

{} 65. The marine court of the city of New-York shall
have jurisdiction in the followingcases, and no other:

1. In actions similar to those in which courts of justices of the peace have jurisdiction, as provided by sections
53 and 54. _

2. In an action upon the charter or a by—law of the corporation of the city of New-York, where the penalty 01'
forfeiture shall exceed twenty-five dollars, and not exceed
one hundred dollars.

3. In an action between a person belonging to a vessel
in the merchant service, and the owner, master or commander thereof, demanding compensation for the performance, or damages for the violation of a contract for 
ces on board such vessel, during a voyage performed, in
whole or in part, of intended to be performed, by such
vessel, though the sum demanded exceed one hundred
dollars.

4. In an action by or against any person belonging to
or on'board of a vessel in the merchant service, for 81183sault and battery or false imprisonment, committed on
board such vessel, upon the high seas, or in a place without the United States, of which the ordinary courts of law
of this state have jurisdiction, though the damages demanded exceed one hundred dollars. But nothingin th'B
or the last preceding subdivision of this section, shall

5
I

give the court power to proceed in any of the cases therein
referred to, as a court of admiralty or maratime jurisdiction.

, CHAPTER II.

The Justices’ Courts, in the city of New-Yonlc.
Section 66. Their jurisdiction.

§66. The assistant justices’ courts in the city of NewYork, shall hereafter be styled‘ the justices’ courts in the
city of New-York, and shall have jurisdiction in the «following cases:

1. In actions similar to those in which justices of the
peace have jurisdiction, as provided by sections 53 and 54.

2. In an action upon the charter oraby-law of the corporation of the city of New—York, where the penalty or
forfeiture shall not exceed one hundred dollars.

CHAPTER III.

The Justices’ Courts of C'z°tz'es.
Szcrron 67. Their Jurisdiction.

§ 67. The justices’ courts of cities, shall have jurisdiction in the following cases, and no other:

1. In actions similar to those in which justices of the
peace have jurisdiction, as provided by sections 53 and 54.

2. In an action upon the charter or by-laws of the corporatious of their respective cities, where the penalty or
forfeiture shali not exceed one hundred dollars.

CHAPTER IV.

General Provisions.
8307103 68. Sections 55 to 64 applied to the courts embraced in this title.
§ 68. The provisions of sections fifty;/‘I've to sixty-four, both
inclusive, relating to forms of acrion, to pleadings, to the times
of ‘commencing actions, to the rules of evidence, to filing and
docketing trhnscripts of judgments, to their efect, and the

PART ll.

QF CIVIL ‘ACTIONS.

TITLE 1. ‘Or rmnn Fonn.

, II. 011- ms Tum or Couxmtanurnu.
III. 01 ran Pnnnns.

JV. Or 1-an PLACE or -rnun.

‘ V. 09 run MANNER or Conmnxema rmnl.
‘VI. Or was Puunmas.

V '. Or was Pnovisroiun Rxnnnuzs.
‘VI . 0! run Tnuu. AND J Unanxr.

-IX. Or nu: Exnoonex or run J uneumrr.
X. 09 rm: Cosre.

IXI. >0: A1’:-nus.

XII. Or run Misonmnnous Pnocnnmxas.
’ XIII. Actions In Pnnnouun Cums.
XIV. Paovisioxs RELATING are Exismna Surrs.
XV. GENERAL Paovisions.

TITLE I.
Of the Form of Civil Actions. ,

Stones 69. Distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and
forms of such actions and suits, abolished.
70. Parties to an action, how designated.
‘.71. Antions*on' judgments, when and how to be brought.
72. Feigned issues, abolished and order for trial substituted.

(} 69. The distinction between actions at law and suits
in equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits,
heretofore existing, are abdished; and, ‘there shall be in
this state, hereafter, ‘but one form of "action, for the enforcement .or protection of private rights and the redress
of _private wrongs, which shall be denominated «a civil
action. - .

_§ 70. In_-such -action, the party complaining shall «be
known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the

- defendant.

,§ .71. N 0 action shall be brought upon a judgment ren-I
dered in any court of this state, except a court of a justice‘
of the peace, between the same parties, without leave of
the court for good cause shown, on notice to the adverse
party; and no action on a judgment rendered by-a justice
of the peace, shall be brought in the same countywithin
live years after its rendition, except in case of his death,

resignation, incapacity to act, or removal from the county,
or that the process was not personally served on the defendant, or on all the defendants, or in case of the death
of some of the parties, or where the docket or record of
such judgment is or shall have been lost or destroyed.

{} 72. Feigned issues are abolished; and instead thereof,

in the cases where the power now exists to ordera feigned

tissue, or when a question of fact, not put in issue by the

pleadings, is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial
may be made, stating, distinctly and plainly, the question
of fact to be tried, and such order shall be the only authority necessary for a trial.

TITLE II.

‘ Of the time of commencing civil actions.

Cluntn I. Actions in general.
II. Actions for the recovery of real property.
III. Actions, other than for the recovery of real property.
IV. General provisions.

CHAPTER I.

The time of commencing actions in general.

Szcrron 73. Repeal of existing limitations.
74. Time of commencing civil actions.

{}73. The provisions contained in the chapter of the
Revised Statutes, entitled “ of actions and the times of commencing them,” are repealed, and the provisions of this
title are substituted in their stead. This title shall not
extend to actions already commenced, or to cases where

the right of action has already accrued; but the statutes

now in force shall be applicable to such cases, according
to the subject of the action, and without regard to the
form. ,

§ 74. Civil actions can only be commenced withinthe period:
prescribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have atcrued, except where, in special cases, a d-jferent limitatioa is
prescribed by statute, and in the cases mentioned in section

seventy-three. But the objection that the action was not commenced within the time limited, can only be taken by answer.

CHAPTER II.

The time of commencing actions for the recovery of real
property.‘

SIOTIOII 75. When the people will not sue.
76. When action cannot be brought by grantee from the state.
77. When actions by the people or their grantees to be brought

within twenty years.
78. Seisin within twenty years, when necessary in action for real

property.
79. Seisin within twenty years, when necessary in action or defense founded on title to or rents of real property.
80. Action must be commenced within one year after entry, or
' within twenty years after right of entry.
Pessemion when resumed. - Occupation deemed under legal
title, unless adverse.
Occupation under written instrument or judgment, when
deemed adverse.
What constitutes adverse possession, under written instrument
or Judgment.
Premises actually occupied, under claim of title, deemed to
be held adversely.
What constitutes adverse possession under claim of title
not written.
. Relation of landlord and tenant as affecting adverse possession.
Right of ‘on not afected by descent cast.
Certain ' bilities excluded from time to commence actions.

no
2"‘

§3§§9§3‘-’$§3§3

{} 75. The people of this state will not sue any person
‘for, or in respect to any real property, or the issues or
profits thereof, by reason of the right or title of the people
to the same unless, ' ‘ ‘

1. Such right or title shall have accrued within forty
years before any action or other proceeding, for the same
shall be commenced; or unless,

2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall
have received the rents and profits of such real property,
or of some part thereof, within the space of forty years.

6; 76. No action shall be brought for, or in respect to,
real property, by any person claiming by virtue of , letters
patent, or grants from the people of this state, unless the
same might have been commenced by the people as herein
qaeciiied, in case such patent or grant had not been issued

or made.

{}'77. When letters patent or grants of real property
shall have been issued or made by the people of this state,
and the same shall be declared void by the determination
of a competent court, rendered upon an allegation of a
fraudulent suggestion, or concealment, or forfeiture or mistake, or ignorance of a material fact, or wrongful detaining,
or defective title, in such case, an action for the recovery
of the premises so conveyed, may behronght either by the
people of this state, or by any subsequent patentee or
grantee of the same premises, his heirs or assigns, within
twenty years after such determination ‘was made; but not
after that period. §78. No action for the recovery of ‘real property, or for
the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be maintained
unless it appear that the p1aintil1‘,his ancestor, predecessor
or grantor, was seised or possessed of the premises in question, within twenty years before the commencement of
such action.

§ 79. 'No cause of action or defense to an action founded upon the title to real property, or to rents or services
out of the same, shallube 'e1l’ectnal, unless it appear that
the person prosecuting the action, or making‘the defense,
or under whose_title the action is prosecuted or the defense
is made, or the ancestor, predecessor or grantor of such
person, was seised or possessed of the premises in question,
within twenty years before the committing of the act in
respect to which such action is prosecuted or defense

made.

{} 80. '-No entry upon real estate shall be deemod%lIrl'ncient, or valid as a claim, unless an action be commenced
tthereupon within one year after the making of such entry,
,and within twenty years from‘ the time when the right to
make such entry, descended or accrued.
_ § 81. In every action for the recotery of real property,
‘or the possession thereof, the person estztblishing a legal
‘title to the premises, shall be presumed to have been poo"sessed thereof within the time required by law; and the:'
occupation of such premises by any other person, shall be
deemed to have been under and in subordination to the
legal title, unless it‘ appear that such premises have been
held and possessed adversely to such legal title, for twenty years before the commencement of such action.

§ 82. Whenever it shall appear that the occupant, or:
those under whom he claims, entered into the possession;
of premises under claim of title, exclusive of any other:
right, founding such claim upon a written instrument, as}
being a conveyance of the premises in question, or upon ‘
the decree or judgment of a competent’ court; and that
there has been a continued occupation and possession of
the premises included in such instrument, decree or j_udgment, or of some part of such premises, under such claim,
for twenty years, the premises so included shall be deemed to have been held adversely, except that where the
premises so included consist of a tract divided into lots,
the possession of one lot shall not be deemed a possession
of any other lot of the same tract.

{} 83. For the purpose of constituting an adverse posses-sion, by any person claiming a title founded upon a writ-5
ten instrument, or a judgment or decree, land shall be?
deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the fol-2
lowing cases:

1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved;

2. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclesure; 3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for
the supply of fuel or of fencing timber, for the purposes
of husbandry, or the ordinary use of the occupant;

4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly
improved, the portion of such farm or lot that may have
been left not cleared, or not enclosed according to the
usual course and custom of the adjoining country, shall

be deemed to have been occupied for the same length of

time as the part improved and cultivated.
{}84. Where it shall appear that there has been an

1 actual continued occupation of premises, under a claim of
title, exclusive of any other right, but not founded upon:

‘written instrument, or a judgment or decree, the premises
so actually occupied and no other, shall be deemed to
have been held adversely.

_ § 85. For the purpose of constituting an adverse poses_sion, by a person claiming title not fotmded upon a writ,ten instrument, or a judgment or decree, land shall be
deemed to have been possessed_ and occupied in the aslowing cases only:

1. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure; - 2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.

r i} 86. Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant
shall have existed between any persons, the possession of
the tenant shall be deemed the possession of the landlord,
until the expiration of twenty years from the termination
of the tenancy; or where there has been no written lease,
until the expiration of twenty years from the time of the
last payment of rent; notwithstanding that such tenant
may have acquired another title, or may have claimed to
hold adversely to his landlord. But such presumption
shall not be made after the periods herein limited.

{} 87. The right ofa person to the possession of any real
property, shall not be impaired or affected by a descent
being cast in consequence of the death of a person in possession of such property.

§' 88. If a person entitled to commence any action for
the recovery of real property, or to make an entry or defense founded on the title to real property, or to rents or
services out of the same, be at the time such title shall
nrst descend or accrue either; 1. Within the age of twenty-one years, or,

2. Insane, or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution
on conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than
.- life, or,

4. A married woman;

The time, during which such disability shall continue,
all not be deemed any portion of the time in this chap: limited for the commencement of such action, or the
tking of such entry. or defense; but such action may be
mmenced, or entry or defense made, after the period of
enty years, and within ten years after the disability

all cease, or after the death of the person entitled who
all die under such disability: but such action shall not

commenced, or entry or defense made after that period.

Cnarrnn III.

he time of commencing actions other than for the recovery of real property.

510! N. Periods of limitation prescribed.
90. Within twenty years.
91. Within six years.
92. Within three years.

93. Within two years.

94. Within one year.

95. When cause of action accrued, in an action upon a current account.

96. Actions for penalties, &c., by any person who will sue, when
to be brought.

97. Actions for relief, not before provided for,

98. Actions by the people,’ subject to the name limitation.

§89. The periods prescribed in section seventy-four for
2 commencement of actions other than for the recovery
real property, shall be as follows :

§90. Within twenty years: A

I. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of
eUnited States, or of any state or territory within the
ited States.

2. An action upon a sealed instrument.

§91. Within six years:

1. An action upon a contract, obligation or liability,

express or implied; excepting‘ those mentioned in section
90.
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, otha
than a penality or forfeiture.

3. An action for trespass upon real property.

4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring anygootls
or chattels, including actions for the speciiie recovery 01
personal property.

5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other
injury to the person or‘ rights of another, not arising on
contract, and not hereinatter enumerated.

6. An action for relief, on the ground of fraud; in cases which heretofore were solely cognizable by the court
of chancery; the cause of action in such case not to be
deemed to have accrued, until the discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud.

{}92. Within three years: ,

1 . An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable, up
on a liability incurred by the doing of an act in his oE~
cial capacity, and in virtue of his otiiee, or by the onmission of an oiiicial duty ; including the non-payment of
money collected upon an execution. But this section shall
not apply to an action for an escape.

2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiturta
where the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to
siich party and the people of this state, except where the
statute imposing it prescribes a diiferent limitation.

. §93. Within two years :

1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false
imprisonment. .

2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty
to the people of this state.

§94. Within one year:

1. An action against a sheriff or other officer, for tht
escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.

§ 95. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon 4
a mutual, open and current account, where there have;
been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of 1
action shall be deemed to have accrued from the time of A
the last item proved in the account on either side.

§96. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, given in whole or in part to any person who will
prosecute for the same, must be commenced within one
year after the commission of the offense; and if- the action
be not commenced within the year by a private party, 'it
may be commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf
of the people of this state, by the attorney-general or the
district attorney of the county where the offense was committed.

(397. An action for relief, not hereinbefore provided for,
must be commenced within ten years after the cause of
action shall have accrued.

§98. _The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall
apply to actions brought in the name of the people of this
state or for their benefit, in the same manner as to actions
by private parties.

Cmu-'r1-:n IV.

General Provisions as to thetimc Qf commencing Adieu

Storm: 99. When action deemed to have been commenced.
100. Exception, where defendant is out of the state.
101. Exception, as to persons under disabilities.
‘ 102. Provision where person entitled, dies before the Bib
expires.
108. In suits by aliens, time of war to be deducted.
104. Provision, where judgment has been reversed.
s 106. Time of stay of action by injunction or statutory 11%
to be deducted.
106. 'Dissbility must exist when right of action waned.
107. Where two or more disbilities,  docs nstdnd
till all removed.
108. This title, not applicable to bills, &c., of oorpusnmga 3‘
bank notes. ‘
109. Not to actions against directors or stockholders of i
corporations or banking associations. Limitation in mi
cases prescribed.
110. Acknowledgment or new promise must he in 

. § 99. ./in action is commenced as to each defesdtat etc
the summons is served on him, or on aco-defendant,uhoiH
. joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest, with his
«in attempt to commence an action, is deemed equiulatfe‘
the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this fit’:when the summons is delivered, with the intent that it AH 51
actually served, to the sherif or other qficer of the county»?
which the defendants, or one of them, usually or last residlf-'
as  a corporation be defendant, to the sherif, or other e§0‘v'
of the county, in which such corporation was established 5!
law, or where its general business was transacted, or vim?
kept an Mice for the transaction of business. But such‘
attempt must be followed by the jirst publication of the 183'
mans, or the service thereof within sixty days.
§' 100. If, when the cause of action shall accrue 4,953“
any person, he shall be out of the state, such action N35‘
commenced within the terms herein respectively limited 
the return of such person into this state; and if, after#5
cause of action shall have accrued, such person shall 403"
from and reside out of this state, the time of his absenct!5':
not be deemed or taken as any part of the time limited ff 5‘
commencement of such action. ‘

{$101. if aperson entitled to appeal orbring an action
snentioned in the last chapter, eascept for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheaf or other qmcer for an escape, be at
the time the cause of action accrued, either:

1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or

2. Insane; or ‘

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under
the sentence of a criminal court, for a term less than his natural life; or

4. .6 married woman ; The time of such disabilityis not a part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action, except that the period
within which the action must be brought, can not be eatznded
more than jive years by any such disability, except infancy,
nor can it be so extended in any case longer than one year
after the disability ceases.

§ 102. If a person entitled to bring an action die before
the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be
commenced by his representatives, after the expiration of
that time, and within one year from his death. If a person
against whom an action may be brought, die before the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may
be commenced against his executors or administrator, after
the expiration of that time, and within one year after the
issnilg of letters testamentary, or of administration.

§ 103. When a person shall be an alien subject or citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time‘
of the continuance of the war shall not be‘ part of the pe-‘
riod limited for the commencement of the action.

{} 104. Ifan action shall be commenced within the time
prescribed therefore, and a judgment therein for the plain-:
tilf be reversed on appeal, the plaintifff, or if he die and
the cause of action survive, his heirs or representatives

may commence a new action within one year after the reversal.
, § 105. When the commencement of an action shall he
'stayed by injunction, or statutory prohibition, the time of
the continuance of the injunction or prohibition shall not
be part of the time limited for the commencement of the
action.
§ 106. No person shall avail himself of a disability un‘less it existed when his right of action accrued.
_ § 107. When two or more disabilities shall co-exist, at
fthe time the right of action accrues, the limitation shall
not attach until they all be removed.
§ 108. This title shall not aifect actions to enforce the
payment of bills, notes or other evidences of debt issued
' by monied corporations, or issued or put in circulation as
‘money.
§ 109. This title shall not alfect actions against directors
for stockholders of a monied corporation, or banking associations, to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to
-enforce a liability created, by law; but such actions must
be brought within six years after the discovery, by the
'aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the penalty or
forfeiture attached, or the liability was created.
§ 110. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby
to take the case out of the operation of this title, unless
the same be contained in some writing signed by the party
to be charged thereby; but this section shall not alter the
effect of any payment of principal or interest.

TITLE III.
Of the parties to civil actions.

Sncrlon 111. Action to be in the name of the real party in interest.

112. Assignment of a thing in action not to prejudice a defense.

113. Executor or trustee may sue without the persons beneficially
interested.

114. When married woman is party, her husband to be joined,
except, &c.

115. Infant to appear by guardian.

116. Guardian, how appointed.

117. Who may be joined as plaintifffs.

118. Who may be 'oined as defendants. A

119. Parties unite in interest, when to be joined. When one or
more may sue or defend for the whole.

120. Plaintiff may we in one action the different parties to commercial paper.

121. Action when not to abate by death, marriage, or other disability, lzc. Proceedings in such case.

122. Court when to decide controversy, or to order other parties
to be brought in.

§ 111. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the
real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section
one hundred and thirteen, but this section shall not be deemed
toauthorize the assignment of a thing in action not arising
‘out of contract.

§ 112. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action,
the action by the assignee shall be Without prejudice to
any set-oii‘ or other defense existing at the time of or before notice of the assignment; but this section shall not

' apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange,

transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration,
before due.

{} 113. ./9n earecutv/r or administrator, a trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue,
without joining with him the person ' for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. ./I trustee of an express trust, within the
meaning of this section, shall be construed to include a person
with whom or in whose name a contract is made for the
benefit of another.

{} 114. When a married woman is a party, her husband
must be joined with her, except that,

. 1. When the action concerns her separateproperty, she may
Esue alone: '
2. When the action _is between herself and her husband she

maysueorbesuedalone: But where her husband cannot be joined with her, as herein

provided, she shall prosecute or defend by her next

§ 115. When an infant is a party, he must appear by
guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which the
action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or a county
iI1d8e- g

6} 116. The guardian shall be appointed as follows:

1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of
the infant,  he be of the age of fourteen years, or  under
that age, upon the application of his general or testamentary
guardian, ifhe has any, or of a relative orfriend of the infant. [f made by a relative or friend of the infant, notice
thereof must jirst be given to such guardian,  he has one, if
he _has none, then to the person with whom such infant resides‘

2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application :9’
the infant,  he be of. the age of fourteen years, and apply
within twenty days after the service of the summons. {f he
be under the age of fourteen, orneglect so to apply, then upon
the application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant, after notice of such application
being first given to the general or testamentary guardian of
such infant,  he has one,  he has none then to the infant
himself  over fourteen years of age, or  under that age, to
the person with whom such infant resides. ‘

§ 117. All persons having an interest in the subject of
the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be
joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this
title. _
§ 118. Any person may be made a defendant, who has
or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the
plaintifff, or ‘who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the questions involved therein.

§ 119. Of the parties tothe action, those who are united
in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but
if the consent of any one, who should have been joined as
plaintifff, cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant,
the reason thereof being stated in the complaint, and when
the question is one of a common or general interest of
many persons; or when the parties are very numerous
and it may be impracticable to bring them all before the
court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the

whole.

§ 120. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation
or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange
and promissory notes may, all or any of them, be included
in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

{} 121. No action shall abate by the death, marriage or
other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In
case of death, marriage, or other disability of a party, the
court, on motion, at any time within one year thereafter,
or afterwards on a supplemental complaint may allow the
action to be continued by or against his representative or
successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the action shall be continued in the name of the
original party; or the court may allow the person to whom

the transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

§ 122. The court may determine any controversy between?
the parties bcforeit, when it can be done without prejudice to?
the rights of others, or by saving their rights, but when a com-,
plete determination Qf the controversy cannot be had without
the presence Qf other parties, the court must cause them to be
brought in. bind when, in an action for the recovery of real
or personal property, a person, not a party to the action, but
having an interest in the subject thereof, makes application to
the court, to be made a party, it may order him to be brought

in by the proper amendment.

.6 defendant, against whom an action is pending upon a
contract, or for specific, real, or personal property, may at any
time before answer, upon afidavit, that a person, not a party
to the action, and without collusion with him, make: against
hi-m a demand for the same debt, or property, upon due notice
to such person, and the adverse party, apply to the cour.‘ for an
order to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him
from liability to either party on his depositing in court the
amount of the debt, or delivering the property, or its value, to
such person as the court may direct; and the court may, in its

discretion, make the order.

TITLE IV.
Of the place of trial of Civil Actions.

Sec-non 123. Certain actions to be tried where the subject br some part

thereof is situated.
124. Other actions, where the cause or some part thereof arose.

125. Other actions, according to the residence of the parties.
126. Actiommay be tried in any county unless defendant demand

trial in proper county.

§ 123. Actions for the following causes, must be tried
*in the county in which the subject of the action or some
part thereof is situated, subject to the power of the.cou.rt
to change the place of trial, in the cases provided by statute. _

1. For the recovery of real property or of an estate or
interest therein, or for the determination, in any form, of
such right or interest,.and for injuries to real property:

2. For the partition of real property:

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property:

4. For the recovery of personal property, distrained for

any cause.
§ 124. Actionsfor the following causes, must be tried

in the county where the cause or some part thereof arose,
subject to the like power of the court, to change the place
of trial in the cases provided by statute : '

1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed

by statute; except, that when it is imposed for an oience
committed on a lake, river, or other stream of water situated in two or more counties, the action may be brought in
any county bordering on such lake, river or stream, and
opposite to the place where the offense was committed:

2. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue
of his office, or against a person, who by his command or
in his aid, shall do any thing touching the duties of such
oiiicer.

§ 125. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the
county in which the parties or any of them shall reside at the
commencement of the action; or if none of the parties
shall reside in the state, the same may be tried in any
county which the plaintilt‘ shall designate in his complaint; subject, however, to the power of the court to
change the place of trial, in the cases provided by statute.

{} 126. If the county designated for that purpose in the
complaint, be not the proper county, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant, before the
time for answering expire, demand, in writing, that the trial
he had in the proper county, and the place of trial be thereupon changed by consent of parties, or by order of the court,
as is provided in this section.

The court may change the place of trial in the following
cases - *

1. When the county designated for that purpose in the
complaint is not the proper county :

2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial
can not be had therein :

3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change.

When the place of trial is changed, all other proceedings
shall be had in the county to which the place of trial is
changed, unless otherwise provided by the consent of the parties, in writing duly filed, or order of the court, and Unpapm shall be fled or transferred accordingly.

TITLE V.

0/' the manner of commencing Civil 

Section 127. Actions how commenced.

128. Summons, requisites of.

129. Notice to be inserted in certain actions.

130. Complaint need not be served with summons. In such 1

what to be stated in summons and proceedings thereon.

131. Defendant unreasonably defending, when to pay costsl32. Notice of pendency of action aifecting title to real property.
133. Summons, by whom served.

134. Summons, bow served and returned.

135. Publication when defendant cannot be found.

136. Proceedings when there are several defendants, and part

only served.
137. When service deemed made in case of publication.

138. Service of summons how proved.
139. When jurisdiction of action acquired.

{} 127. Civil actions in the courts of record of this state,
shall be commenced by the service of a summons.

(} 128. The summons shall be subscribed by the plaintiti‘, or his attorney, and directed to the defendant, and
shall require him to answer the complaint, and serves
copy of his answer on the person whose name is subscribed
to the summons, at a place within the state, to be therein
specliied, in which there is a post—oilice, within twenty
days after the service of the summons, exclusive of the

day of service.
{} 129. The plaintifff shall also insert in the summons 3

i notice, in substance as follows:

1. In an action, arising on contract for the recovery of
money only, that he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint,
in twenty days after the service of the summons.

2. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to
answer the complaint, within twenty days after service of
the summons, the plaintifff will apply to the court for the
relief demanded in the complaint.

§ 130. J9 copy of the complaint need not be served with

the summons. -12: such case, the summons must state whereg
the complaint is or will be filed; and  the defendant, within}
twenty days thereafter, causes notice of appearance to be given,i
and in person, or by attorney, demands in writing a copy of}
the complaint, specifying a place within the state where it‘
may be served, a copy thereof must, within twenty days thereafter, be served accordingly, and after such service, the defendant has twenty days to answer, but only one copy need be
served on the same attorney.

§ 131. In the case of a defendant against whom nopersonal,
claim is made, the plaintiff may delivrr to such defendant with;
the summons a notice subscribed by the  or his attor-9
ney, setting forth the general object of the action, a brief description of the property afected by it,  it afects specific
real or personal property, and that no personal claim is made
hgainst such defendant, in which case no copy of the complaint need be served on such defendant unless within the
time for answering, he shall, in writing, demand the same.

lf a defendant, on whom such notice is served, unreasonably
defend the action, he shall pay costs to the plaintifff.

§ 132. In an action afecting the title to real property, thej
plaintiff at the time qfjiling the complaint, or [at any time;
afterwards, may jile with the clerk of each county in which
the property is situated a notice of the pendency of the action,
containing the names of the parties, the object of the action
and a description of the property in that county afected thereby; and if the action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage,
such notice must be jiled twenty days before judgment, and
must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties thereto and
the time and place of recording the same. From the time of
fling only shall the pendency of the action be constructive
notice to a purchaser or incurnbrancer of the property afected
thereby.

§ 133. The summons may be served by the sherm’ of
the county where the defendant may be found, or by any
other person not a party to the action. The service shall
be made, and the summons returned, with proof of the
service, to the person whose name is subscribed thereto,
with all reasonable diligence. The person subscribing
the summons, may, at his option, by an endorsement on
the summons, fix a time for the service thereof, and the
service shall then be made accordingly.

§134. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy

- thereqfas follows :

1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president as
other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer, a
director or managing agent thereof; but such service can be
made in respect to a foreign corporation only, when it has property within this State, or the cause of action arose therein.

2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to
such minor personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian, or  there be none within the State then to any person
having the care and control of such minor, or with whom he
shall reside, or in whose service he shall be employed.

3. If against a person judicially declared to be qf unsound
mind or incapable of conducting his own afairs in consequence
of habitual drunkenness, and for whom a committee has been
appointed, to such committee and to the defendant personally.

4. In all other cases to the defendant personally.

§ 135. Where the person, on whom the service of the summons is to be made, cannot, after due diligence, be found within
the State, and that fact appears by qfidauit to the sali.s_-fachhra
of the court or a judge thereof, or of the county judge of the
county where the trial is to be had, and it in like manner appears that a cause of action exists against the defendant, in
respect to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a proper
party to an action relating to real property in this State, such
court or judge may grant an order that the service be made by
the publication of a summons in either of the following cases:

1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, has pro" within the State, or the cause of action arose therein ;

'2. "Where the defendant, being a resident of this State, has
‘departed ‘therefrom, with intent to defrdud his creditors, '2» to
avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed
‘therein with the like intent;

3. Where he is not a resident of this State, but has property
‘therein, and the action arises on contract, and the court has
jurisdiction of the subject of the action;

4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal pro‘perty in this State, and the defendant has, ‘or claims a lien or
interest, actual or ‘contingent ‘therein, or the relief demanded

‘consists wholly or partly in etecluding the defendant from any
"interest or lien therein; _

5. Where the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed
 law;

The order must direct the publication to be made in two

newspapers to be designated as most likely to give ‘notice to
‘the person to be served, and for such length of time as may be
deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for six weeks.
In case of publication, the court or judge must ‘also direct a
tape; of the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited
in the post qfice, directed to the person to be served, at his
place of residence, unless it appear that such residence is "nei‘ther known to the party making the application, nor can with
‘reasonable diligence be ascertained by him. When publication
‘is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint out of the State is equivalent to publication and 
in the post qfice.

' The defendant against whom pubtication is ordered or his
representatives, on application and sujicient cause shown, at
any time before judgment, must be allowed to defend the action;
and except in an action for divorce, the defendant, against
whom publication is ordered, or his representatives, may 
like manner, upon good cause shewn, be allowed to defend
after judgment, or at any time within one year after notice

thereof, and within seven years after its rendition on such
terms as may be just; and  the defense be successful, and the
judgment, or any part thereof, have been collected, or otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled as
the court directs; but the title to property sold under such
judgment to a purchaser in good faith shall not be thereby
afected. ./ind in all cases where publication is made, the
complaint must be first filed, and the summons, as 
must state the time and place of such jiling.

{} 136. Where the action is against two or more defendants,
land the summons is served on one _or more, but not on all qf
them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:

‘ 1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon
contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless
the court otherwise direct, and  he recover judgment, it may
be entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so
far only as that it may be enforced against the joint property
of all, and the separate property of the defendants served, and
if they are subject to arrest, against the persons of the defendants served; or, 2.  the action be against defendants severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served in the some manner
as  they were the only defendants;

3. [f all the defendants have been served, judgment may be
taken against any or either of them severally, when the plaintiff would be entitled to judgment against such defendant wdefendants,  the action had been against them or any qfthen
alone. ‘

§ 137. In the cases mentioned in section 135, the ser}vice of the summons shall be deemed complete, at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication

§ 138. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the complaint or notice,  any, accompanying the same must be as

follows: _
1. If served by the sherif, his certificate thereof; or,

12. If by any other person, his ajidavit thereof; or,

3. In case of publication, the ajidavit of the printer, or his
foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same ; and an aJ7idavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post-qfice, as
required by law,  the same shall have been deposited; or,

4. The written admission cf the defendant.

In case of service, otherwise than by publication, the certificate, ajidavit or admission must state the time and place of
the service.

6; 139. From the time of the service of the summons in a
civil action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the
court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have
control of all the subsequent proceedings. ‘./9 voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to personal service of
the summons upon him.

TITLE VT. .
Of the pleadings in civil actions._

Cnarrnn I. The complaint.
II. The demurrer.
III. The answer.
IV. The reply.

V. General rules of leading. _
VI. Mistakes in plea ' g and amendments.

CHAPTER I.

The complaint.

Samoa 140. Forms of pleadings inconsistent with this act abolished.
141. First pleading to be complaint.
142. Complaint, what to contain.

§ 140. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing,
inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are abolished;
and hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions, in
courts of record, and the rules by which the suficiency
of the pleadings is to be determined, are modified as prescribed by this act. ‘

§ 141. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff, is

the complaint.
{} 142. The complaint shall contain:
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the

court in which the action is brought, the mine of the
county in which the plaintifff desires the trial to be had,
and the names of the parties to the action, plaintiiand
defendant;

2. ./9 plain and concise statement of the facts 
a cause of action without unnecessary repetition;

3. A demand of the relief, to which the plaintifff sap
poses himself entitled. If the recovery of money be de
manded, the amount thereof shall he stated.

Cnarrsn II.

The demurner.

Slcrron 148. Defendant to demur oranswer.
144. When the defendant may demur.
145. Demurrer must specify grounds of objection to complain.
146. How to proceed if complaint be amended.

147. Objection not -appearing on complaint may be talra by 5

ever.
148. Objection, when deemed waived.

§l-13. The only pleading on the part ‘of the defemhnia

is either a demurrer or an answer. It ‘must be served

within twenty days after the service of the copy of the

complaint.

(; 144. The defendant may demur to the complaint, when
it shall appear upon the face thereof, either:

1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the persona:
the defendant, or the subject of the action; or,

2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue ; as:

3. That there is another action pending between the {

same parties, for the same cause; or,

4. That there is adefect of parties, plaintifff or defmr
ant; or,

5. That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or, * ,

6. That the complaint does not state facts suflicienm
constitute a cause of action.

{} 145. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds
of objection to the complaint. Unless it do so, it may!!!

disregarded. It may be taken to the whole complaint, or
to any of the alleged causes of action stated therein.

§l46. _If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof
must be served on the defendant, who must answer it‘
within twenty days, or the plaintifff upon filing with the
clerk on proof of the service, and of the defendant’s ommission, may proceed to obtain judgment, as provided by
section 246, but where an application to the court for
judgment is necessary, eight days notice thereof must be
given to the defendant.

§147. When any of the matters enumerated in section
144 do not appear upon the face of I the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer.

§l-18. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have
waived the same, excepting. only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the complaint
does not state facts sufficient to- constitute a cause of action.

CHAPTER III.

The Answer.

Sncrion 149. Answer what to contain.
150. May set forth as many grounds of defense as exist.
151. Demurrer as to some causes of action, and answer as to

others.
152. Sham defenses to be stricken out.

§ 149. The answer of the defendant must contain :

1. «9 speci/Sc denial of each material allegation of the complaint controaerled by the defendant, according to his knowledge, information or belief, or of any knowledge or information thereof sujlcient to form a belief.

2. ./7 plain and concise statement of any new matter constituting a defense or set-of without unnecessary repetition.

§150. The defendant may set forth by answer, as many,
defenses as he shall have. They shall each be separately:
stated, and refer to the causes of action which they are in-I

tended to answer, in any manner by which they may be
intelligibly distinguished. .

§ 151 . The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes of action stated in the complaint, and answer
the residue.

§ 152. Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses may be
stricken out on motion and upon such terms as the court may
in their discretion impose.

CHAPTER IV.
The Reply.

Station 153. Reply, when to be put in, and what to contain.
154. When defendant may move for judgment upon an answer.
155. Demurrer to reply.

_ § 153. When the answer contains new matter constituting
'defense or set of-the plaintiff may, within twenty days, reply
to such new matter, denying specifically each allegation controoerted by him, according to his knowledge, information or
belief, or any knowledge or information thereof sujicient to
form a belief ; and he may allege, in a plain and concise manner
without unnecessary repetition, any new matter, not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to such new
matter in the answer ; or he may demur to the same for insujiciency, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof ; and
the plaintzf may demur to one or more of several defenses
and set of-set up in the answer and reply to the residue.
6; 154. If the answer contain a statement of new matter
1 constituting a defense, and the plaintifff fail to reply or
” demur thereto Within the time prescribed by law, the defendant may move on a notice of not less than ten days
for such judgment, as he is entitled to upon such statement, and if the case require it, a writ of inquiry of damages may be issued.
§ 155. If a reply of the plaintifff to any defense set up
by the answer of the defendant be insufficient, the defendant may demur thereto, and shall state the grounds thereof.

CHAPTER V.
General Rules of Pleading.

Sncnox 156. No pleading but complaint, answer, reply and demurrers.

157. Verification of pleadings.

158. How to state an account in pleading.

159. Pleadings to be liberally construed.

160. Irrelevant or redundant matter to be stricken out.

161. Judgments how to be pleaded.

162. Conditions precedent, how to he pleaded.

163. Private statutes, how to be pleaded.

164. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint.
165. Answer in such cases.

166. In actions to recover property distrained for damage, answer
need not set forth title.
167. What causes of action may bejoincd in the same action.
168. Allegation not denied ; when to be deemed true.

§156. Every pleading in a court of record inust be sub-§
scribed by the party, or his attorney, and when any pleading:
is verified, every subsequent pleading, except a demurrer,i
must be verified also.
{} 157. The verification must be to the efect, that the same 
true to the Ienowledge of the person making it except as to!
those matters stated on information and belief and as to those
matters he believes it to be true, and must be by the ayidavit
of the party, or  there be several parties united in interest,
and pleading together, by one at least of such parties acquainted with the facts,  such party be‘within the county
where the attorney resides, and capable of making the q.#Zdavit. The ahidavit may also be made by the agent or attorney,
if the action or defense be founded upon a written instrument
for the payment of money only, and such instrument be in the
possession of the agent or attorney, or  all the material allegations of the pleading be within the personal knowledge of
the agent or attorney. When the pleading is verified by any
other person than the party, he shall set forth in the affidavit
his knowledge, or the grounds of his belief on the subject, and
the reasons why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any oyicer
thereof ; and when the state or any qficer thereof in its be
half is a party, the verification may be made by any person

acquainted with the facts. The loerification may be omitted
when an admission of the, truth of the allegation might subject the ‘party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading
can be used in a criminal prosecution against the party, as
proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading.

{} 158. It shall not,be necessary for a party to setlfarth in

‘a pleading, the items of an account therein alleged ; but he

shall deliver to the adverse, party, within ten days after a demand thereof in writing, _a copy of the account, which if the
pleading is verified, must be verzf_ed  his own oath, or that
of his agent or attorney, -if within the personal knowledge q‘
such agent or attorney, to theefect that he believes it to be
true, or be precluded from giving evidence‘ thereof. The
court, or a judge thereof, or a county judge, may order a

further account when the one delivered is defective, and the
court may in all cases order a bill of particulars of the claiu_

of either party to be furnished.

' § 159. In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view of substantial justice between
the parties,

§ 160. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted -in.

la pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved thereby. And when the allegations of a.
pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise,

nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court
may require the pleading to be made deiinite and certain,
by amendment.

. '§ 161. In pleading a judgment, or other determination
of a court, or officer of special jurisdiction,‘ it shall not be._
necessary to state the -facts conferring jurisdiction, but;
such judgment or determination may be stated to have .

been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on
the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.

§ 162. In pleading the performance of conditions prece-I
dent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts,E
showing such performance ,- but it may be stated generally,
that the party duly pe'rforme_d all the conditions on his part ;
and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading
shall be bound to establish an the trial, the facts showing such
performance. In an action or defense, founded upon an instrument, for the payment of money only, it shall be 
for a party to give a copy of the instrument, and to state
that there is due to him thereon from the adverse party a specgfied sum which he claims.

(} 163. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived;
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute,
by its title and the day of its passage, and the court shall
thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

§ 164. In an action. for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to state in the complaint, any extrinsic facts, for
the purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff, of
the defamatory matter out of which .the cause of action
arose; but it shall be sufhcient to state generally, thatthe
same was. published or spoken concerning the plaintifff,
and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintifff shall
be boundto establish, on trial, that it was so published or
spoken.

§_16.5. ln the actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the
matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount of damages; and whether
he prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence
the mitigating circumstances.

§ 166. In an action to recover the possession of property
distrained doing damage, an answer that the defendant or
person by whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property upon which the distress was
made, and that the property distrained was at the time

1

doing damage thereon, shall be good, without setting forth
the title to such real property.

§ 167. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action
L in the same complaint where they all arise out of:

1. Contract, express or implied; or

2. Injuries with or without force, to the person; or

3. Injuries with or Without force, to property; or

4. Injuries to character; or

5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages, for withholding thereof, and the rents and proiits
of the same; or

6. Claims to recover personal.property, with or without
damages for the withholding thereof; or

7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a. contract, or
by operation of law.

But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to
one only of these classes, and must affect all the parties
to the action, and not require different places of trial, and
must be separately stated.

§ 168. Every material allegation of the complaint, not
:specifically controverted by the answer, as prescribed in
section 149; and every material allegation of new matter
in the answer, not specifically controverted by the reply,
as prescribed in section 153, shall, for the purposes of the
action, be taken as true. But the allegation of new matter in a reply, shall not in any respect conclude the defendant, who may on the trial countervail it by proofs,
either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

CHAPTER VI.

Mistakes in Pleading, and Amendments.

Sac-non 169. Material variances, how provided for.
g 170. Immaterial variances, how provided for.

171. What to be deemed a variance.

172. Amendments of course.

173. Amendments by the court.

174. Amendment, after demurrer.

175. Suing a party b a fictitious name, when allowed.

176. No error or de ect to be regarded, unless it affect substantial

rights.
177. Supplemental complaint, answer and reply.

§ 169. N o variance between the allegation in a pleading,
and the proof, shall be deemed material, unless it have}
actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in‘
maintaining his action or defense,upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged, that a party has been so misled,
that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court,
and in what respect he has been misled; and thereupon
the court may order the pleading to be amended, upon
such terms as shall be just.

§ 170. Where the variance is not material, as provided}
in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found 1
according to the evidence, or may order an immediate
amendment, without costs.

§17l. Where, however, the allegation of the cause of “
action or defense to which the proof is directed is unprov-'
ed, not in some particular or particulars only, but in its
entire scope and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of
variance, within the last two sections, but a failure of
proof. '

§ 172. day pleading may be once amended by the party of
course, without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings?
already had, at any time before the period for answering it
expires, or, it can be so amended at any time within twenty

days after the service of the answer or demurrer to such pleading unless it be made to appear to the court that it was done

for the purposes of delay and ‘the plaintzf or defendant will

thereby lose the benefit of a circuit or term for which the cause is
or may be noticed, and  it appear to the court that such amendment was made for such purpose the same may be stricken
out and such terms imposed as to the court may seem just.
In such case a copy of the'amended  must be served
on the adverse party. ./I_/Zer the decision of a demurww, either
at a general or special term, the. court may, in. its discretios.
if it appear that the demurrer was interposed. in-, good faith,
allow the party to plead over upon suchterms asmay be just.
If the demurrer be allowed. for the cause mentioned in the
fifth sub-division of section one hundred and fartyrfournthe

court may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as maybe.

just, order the action to be divided into as many actions:
may be necessary to the proper determination of the causes»
of action therein mentioned.

(1 173. The court may, before or after judgment, in 
therance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amad
any pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party
or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the case, when the amendment does not‘
change substantially the claim or defense by conforming the
pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.

{} 174. The court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon
such terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be
made o_r other act to be done after the time limited by this ad,
or by an order enlarge such time ,- and may also, in its discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, at any time within
one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment,
order, or other proceeding, taken against him through hismistalce, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect: and may
supply an omission in any proceeding; and whenever any proceeding token by a party fails to conform in any respect to the
provisions of this code, the court may in like manner and upon

like terms, permit an amendment of such proceeding, so as to
make it conformable thereto. (3175. When ‘the plaintifff shall be ignorant of the name
of a defendant, such defendant maybe designated in any
pleading or proceeding, by any name; and when his true
name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may
be amended accordingly.

§ 176. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any error, or defect in the pleadings or proceedings,
which shall not affect the substantial rights of the adverse

party; and no judgment shall bereverseel or afected by

reason of such error or defect.

(} 177. The plaintifff and defendant -respectively, may be
allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint,
answer or rep1y,al»leging facts material to the case, occurring after the former complaint, answer or reply, or of
which the party was ignorant when his former pleading
was made.

_ TITLE VII.

Of the Provisional remedies in civil actions.

Cnaruzn I. Arrest and hail.
II. Claim and delivery of personal property.
III. Injunction.
IV. Attachment.
V. Provisional remedies.

CHAPTER I.

Arrest and bail I

Sncrlon 178. No person to be arrested. except as prescribed by this net.
179. Cases in which defendant may be arrested.
180. Order for arrest, by whom made.
181. Atii§l_avi)t1to obtain order. To what actions this chapterap
p IC8 e,
182. Security by plaintifff, before order for arrest.
183. Order, when made and its form. .
184. Atlidavit and order to be delivered to sherili‘, and copy to
defendants.
185. Arrest, how made.
186. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.
187. Bail, how given.
 g Surrender of defendant.
190. Bail, how proceeded against.
191 . Bail, how exonerated.
192. Delivery of undertaking to plaintifff, and its acceptances
rejection by him.
193. Notice of justification. New undertaking, ifother bail.
194. Qualitications of bail.

195' g Justification and allowance of bin.

196.
197. Deposite of money with sheriff.

198. Payment of money into court by sheriff.

199. Substituting bail for deposite.

200. Money deposited how applied, or dis (1 of .

201. Sheriti‘, when liable as bail; and his ischarge from lhbility.
202. Proceedings on judgment against sheriff.

203. Bail liable to sheritl‘.

204. Motion to vacate order of arrest, or reduce bail.
205. Aflidavits on motion.

(3 178. No person shall be arrested in a civil action except as prescribed by this act; but this provision shall not
affect the act to abolish imprisonment for debt, and to
punish fraudulent debtors, passed April 26, 1831, or any
act amending the same, nor shall it apply to proceedings
for contempts.

§ 179. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter
prescribed, in the following cases: '

1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause
of action not arising out of contract, where the defendant

- is not a resident of the state, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action is for an injury to person or
character, or for injuring, or for wrongfully taking, detaining, or converting property :

2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a_ promise to
marry, or for money received, or property embezzled or
fraudulently misapplied. by a public officer or by an attorney, solicitor or counsellor, or by an officer or agent oi
a corporation or banking association, in the course of his
employment as such, or by any factor, agent, broker, or
other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for any misconduct
or neglect in office, or in a professional employment:

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly detained, where the property, or any part thereof,
has been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that it cannot be

found or taken by the sherif, and with the intent that it should
not be so found, or taken, or with the intent to deprive the plain
tif of the benqit thereof.

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud, in
contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which
the action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the
property, for the taking, detention, or conversion of which
the action is brought: I

5. When the defendant has removed, or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors.

But no female shall be arrested, in any action except
for a willful injury to person, character or property.

§ 180. An order for the arrest of the defendant, must be
obtained from a judge of the court in which the action is
brought, or from a county judge.

§' 181. The order may be made,‘ where it shall appear
to the judge by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or of any other
person, that a sutiicient cause of action exists, and that the
case is one of those mentioned in section 179.

The provisions "of this chapter shall apply to all actions

[included within the provisions of section 179, which shall 1

have been commenced ‘since the thirtieth day of June,
one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight, andin which
judgment shall not have been obtained.

. {}182. Before making the order, the judge shall require
a written undertaking on the part of the plaintih‘, with
or without sureties, to the enact, that if the defendant
recover judgment, the plaintin will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least
one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed by
the plaintifff, without sureties, he shall annex thereto an
affidavit that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within the state, and worth double the sum speciiied in the undertaking, overall his debts and liabilities.

§ 183. The order may be made, to accompany the sumimons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment. It
‘shall require the sheriff of the ‘county, where the defendhnt ‘may be found, forthwith to  him and hold 
to bail in a specified sum, and to return ‘the order ata
time and place therein mentioned, to the plaintiff or
attorney by whom it shall be subscribed or endorsed.

§ 184. The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant,
shall deliver to him a copy thereof.

{} 185. The sheriff‘ shall ‘execute the order, by arresting
the defendant and keeping him in custody, until discharged by law; and may call the patter of the eonntry
to his aid, in the execution of the ‘arrest as in ‘case of process.

{} 186. The defendant at any time before execution, shall
be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or
upon depositing the amount mentioned in the order of

arrest, as provided in this chapter. ° ~

§ 187. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient‘
bail, stating their places of residence and occupations, to
the eifect that the defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to the process of the court, during the
pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to
enforce the judgment therein, or if he be arrested for the
cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section 179,

and undertaking to the same effect as that provided by
section 211.

§ 188. Ldt any time before a failure to comply with the
wndertalsing, the bail may surrender the defendant in their
awneration, or he may surrender himself to the sherif of the
county where hewas arrested, in the following manner: '

1. .4 certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be
delivered to the sherif’, who shall detain the defendant in his
custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and shall, by a
certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender; .

2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and
shcn_'f’s certificate, a judge of the court, or county judge,
may upon a notice to the plaintiff, of eight days, with a copy
of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated; and on

filing the order and the papers used on said application, they

shall be exonerated accordingly. But this section shall not
apply to an arrest for cause mentioned in subdivision 3, of
section 179 so as to discharge the bail from an undertaking
given to the efect provided by section 211.

§ 189. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant,
the bail, at any time or place, before they are finally
charged, may themselves arrest him, or by a written authority, endorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking,

may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to
do so. ‘

§ 190. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking the bail may be proceeded against by action only.

§ 191. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death

“of the defendant or his imprisonment in a state prison, or

by his legal discharge from the obligation to render Mmself amenable to the process, or by his ‘surrender to B
sheriff of the county where he was arrested, in execution
thereof, within twenty days after the commencement of
the action against the ball, or within such further time as
may be granted by the court. 'r §192. Within the time limited for that purpose the
sheriff shall deliver the order of arrest to the plaintiff &

-attorney by whom it is subscribed, with his return endorsed, and a certified copy of the undertaking of the ball.
The plaintifff, within ten days thereafter, may serve upon
the sheriff, a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he
shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall
be exonerated from liability.

§ 193. On the receipt of such notice, the sherw' or d$cd‘ant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the  or
attorney by whom the order of arrest -is subscribed, notice of
the ju.9tijication of the same, or other bail, (specafying the
places of residence and occupation of, the latter,) before a
judge of the court, or county judge, at a -specified time and
place ; the time to be not less than jive nor more than ten days
thereafter. In case other bail be given, there shall be a new
undertaking, in the form prescribed in section one huné-d
and eighty-seven. § 194. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident and householder or
freeholder, within the state. .

2. They must each be worth the amount speciiied in the
order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution, but the judge, or a justice of the peace on justification, may allow more than two bail to justify severally in
amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole
justification be equivalent to that of two sumcient bail.

I; 106. For the purpose of justiheation, each of the bail
shall attend before the judge, or a justice of the peace, at
&e time and place mentioned in the notice, and may be
examhied on oath, on the‘part of the plaintifff, touching
his sumciency, in such manner as the judge or justice of
the peace, in his discretion, may think proper. The examination shall be reduced -to writing and subscribed by
the bail, if required by the plaintifff.

§ 196. If the judge or justice of the peace iind the bail.
siimeient, he shall annex the examination to the undertaking,eudorse hisallowance thereon, and cause them to be filed
with -the clerk; and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.

§ 197. The defendant may, at the nine of his arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount,
mentioned in the order. The sheriff shall thereupon give
the defendant a certificate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

§ 198. The sheriff shall, within four days after the deposit, pay the same into court; and shall take from the;
oiiicer receiving the same, two certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall deliver to the plaintiff,
and the other to the defendant. For any default in making such payment, the same proceedings may be had on
the official bond of the sheriff to collect the sum deposited,
as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 199. If money be deposited, as provided in the last
two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice,
as prescribed in section 193, any time before judgment;
and thereupon the judge before whom the justification is
had, shall direct, in the order of allowance, that the money deposited be refunded by the sheriff to the defendant,
and it-shall be refunded accordingly.

§ 200. Where money shall have been so deposited, if it
remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for
the payment of money to the laintiff, the clerk shall,

under the direction of the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment, shall
refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the Mgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall refund
to him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplial
§ 201. If, after being arrested, the defendant escapee!
[be rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit
be not made instead thereof, the sheriff shall himself be
liable as bail. But he may discharge himself from such
liability, by the giving and justification of bail as provided
in sections 193, 194,196 and 196, at any time beiorem
cess against the person of the defendant, to enfotte In
order or judgment in the action. —

§202. If a judgment be recovered against theshedf:
upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon belt’
turned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same prowl‘

ings may be had on the oilicial bond of the sheriff, to co!lect the deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.

§203. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, unless the!
justify, or other bail be given or justiiied,be liable to I119
sheriff, by action, for damages which he may sustain bl
reason of such omission.

(3204. A defendant arrested, may, at any timebefomm
justification of bail, apply, on motion, to vacate the old“
of arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail.

§ 205. If the motion be made upon affidavitson the?“

'of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintih’ may 01*
pose the same by aiiidavits or other proofs, in addition W
those on which the order of arrest was made.

On.u-ran II.

C?aim and delivery of Personal Property.

83¢-non 206. Delivery of rsonal property, when it may be claimed.
207. Adidavit an its requisites.
208. Requisition to sheriii‘, to take and deliver the giroperty.
209 Security on the part of the plaintifff, and justi cation.

210: Exception to sureties and proceedings thereon or on failure
to except. .

211. Defendant when entitled to re-delivery.
212. J ustiilcation of defendant’s sureties.
213. Qualiilcation and justification of sureties.

214. Property, how taken when concealed in building or enclosure.

216. Property, how kept.
216. Claim of property by third person.
217. Notice and affidavit, when and where to be filed.

§206. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the posses-;
sion of personal property, may, at the time of issuing thei
summons, or at any time before answer, claim the immedi-j
ate delivery of such property as provided in this chapter.

{3 207. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit mustbe.
made by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, show-:
1331

1. That the plaintiil‘ is the owner of the property
claimed, (particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled
to the possession thereof, by virtue of a special property
therein, the facts in respect to which shall be set forth;

2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant; 3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according

. to his best knowledge, information and belief.

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or line, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution or attachment against the property of the plaintifff;
or if so seized, that it is, by statute, exempt from such
seizure; and,

6. The actual value of the property.

§208. The plaintiil‘ may, thereupon, by an endorsement
in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the

county where the property claimed may be, to take the
same from the defendant, and deliver it to the plaintii.
§209. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice,
ith a written undertaking, executed by one or more sufhcient sureties, approved by the sherif, to the e&'ect that
they are bound, in double the value of the property 5
stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action,
for the return of the property to the defendant, if retum
thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such
sum as may, for any cause, he recovered against the plaintifff, the sherid‘ shall forthwith take the property described
in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant

or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall, also,
without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the andavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to
him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent, fran
whose possession the property is taken; or if neither can
be found by leaving them at the usual place of ‘ abode of
either, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
§210. The defendant may within three days aitertlie

«service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give
.notice to the sheriH' that he excepts to the sufficiency of

the sureties. If he fail to do so, he shall be deemed to
have waived all objection to them. When the defendant
excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice in like manner, as upon bail on arrest. ' And the sherif shall heresponsible for the suiliciency of the sureties until the objection to them is either waived as above provided, or
until they shall justify, or new sureties shall be substituted and justify. ,If the defendant except to the sureties,

he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next

section.
§ 211. At any time before the delivery of the property

if to the plaintifff, the defendant may if he do not except in
the sureties of the plaintifff, require the return there)‘.

upon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed

by two or more suiiicient sureties, to the effect that they
are bound, in double the value of the property, as stated in
the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the
plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the defendant. If a return of the property
be not so required within three days ofter the taking and
service of notice to the defendant, -it shall be delivered to
the plaintifff, except.as provided in section 216.

§ 212. The defendant’s sureties, upon a notice to the
plaintifff of not less than two nor more than six days,
shall justify before a judge or justice of the peace, in the
same manner as upon bail on arrest; upon such justification, the sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant’s
sureties, until they justify, or until justiilcation is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the property
until that time, but if they or others in their place, fail
to justify, at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver
the property to the plaintifff. '

(3213. The qualifications of sureties and their justi1ication, shall be as are prescribed by sections 194 and 195,

in respect to bail upon an order of arrest.

§ 214. If , the property or any part thereof be concealed
in a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause
the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the
property into his possession; and if necessary he may call
to his aid the power of his county.

I; 215. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as
in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place,
and deliver it to the parq entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses
for keeping the same.

§216. If the property taken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant or his agent, and such person

shall‘ make aiiidavit of his title thereto and right to the
possession thereof, stating the grounds of such right and
title and serve the same upon the sheriff; the sheriffslnll
not be bound to keep the property, or deliver it to tho
plaintifff unless the plaintiff on demand of him orhis agat,
shall indemnify the sheriff against such claim by an mdertaking, executed by two suiiieient suretics accompanied
by their affidavits, that they are each worth doublethe
value of the property as specified in the affidavit, of the
plaintifff and freeholders and householders of the county.
And no claim to such property by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, shall be valid against the shed!
unless made as aforesaid, and notwithstanding such claim,
when so made, he may retain the property a reasonable
time to demand such indemnity.

§ 217. The sheriff shall file the notice and aiiidavitwith
his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the courtin
which the action is pending within twenty days after
taking the property mentioned therein.

CHAPTER III.

Injunction.

Samoa 218. Writ of injunction abolished, and order substituted.

219. Injunction, in what cases granted.

220. At what time it may be granted.

221. Notice, when required. Temporary injunction.

222. Security upon injunction. Damages, how ascertained.
223. Order to show cause why injunction should not be granted.
224. Security upon injunction to suspend business of carpent on.
225. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
226. Aflidavits, on motion.

{; 218. The writ of injunction as a provisional remedyis

"abolished; and an injunction, by order, is substituted

therefore. The order may be made by the court in which
the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, or by a county
judge, in the cases provided in the next section; and when
made by a judge may be enforced as the order of the court

§ 219. Where it shall appear by the complaint, that the
plaintm‘ is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief.

or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission
or continuance of some act the commission or continuance of
which, during the litigation would produce injury to the
plaintifff, or when, during the litigation, it shall appear that
the defendant is doing‘, or threatens, or is about to do, or procuring or suffering some act to be done in violation of the
plaintiff’s rights, respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary
injunction may be granted, to restrain such act. And
where during the pendency of an action, it shall appear
by aiiidavit, that the defendant threatens, or is about to
remove, or dispose of his property, with intent to defraud
his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to
restrain such’ removal or disposition.

{} 220. The injunction may be granted at the time of i
commencing the action, or at any time afterwards, before
judgment, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the court or
judge, by the aiiidavit of the plaintifff, or of any other person, that sufficient grounds exist therefore. A copy of the
affidavit must be served with the injunction.

§ 221. An injunction shall not be allowed, after the
defendant shall have answered, unless upon‘ notice, or up-1
on an order to show cause; but in such case the defend-‘A
ant may be restrained, until the decision of the court or
judge, granting or refusing the injunction.

§ 222. Where no provision is made by statute, as to se-i
curity upon an injunction, the court or judge shall require‘
a written undertaking, on the part of the plaintifff, with or
without sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay to
the party enjoined, such damages, not exceeding an amount
to be specified, as he may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the plaintifff was
not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by
a reference, or otherwise, as the court shall direct.

§ 223. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any of several defendants, should be heard bebefore granting the injunction, an order may be made rcquiring cause to be shown, at a speciiied time and place,
why the injunction should not be granted; and thedofendant may in the meantime be restrained.

§ 224. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business of a corporation, shall not be granted, except
'by the court or a judge thereof. Nor shall it be granted,
without due notice of the application therefore, to the
proper officers of the corporation, except where the people
of this state are a party to the proceeding, and except in
proceedings to enforce the liability of stockholders in
corporations and associations for banking purposes, after
the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and
fifty, as such proceedings are or shall be provided by law,
unless the plaintifff shall givje a written undertaking, executed by two suiiicient sureties, to be approved by the
court or judge, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay all
damages, not exceeding the sum to be mentioned iii the
undertaking, which such corporation may sustain, by
reason of the injunction, if the court shall Diinally decide
that the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages
may be ascertained by a reference or otherwise, as the
court shall direct.

§225. If the injunction be granted by a judge of the
court, or by a county judge, without notice, the defendant
at any time before the trial, may apply, upon notice, to a
judge of the court in which the action is brought, to
vacate or modify the same. The application may be made
upon the complaint and the affidavits on which the
injunction was granted, or upon affidavits on the part of
the defendant, with or without the answer.

§ 226. If the application be made upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintii
may oppose the same by aiiidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which the injunction was granted.

Cnarrnn IV.

Attachment.

Slcnol 227 . Property of foreign co rations and of non-resident or absconding or conceale defendants may be attached.
228. Warrant by whom granted.
229. In what cases warrant may be granted.
%0. Security on obtaining warrant.
231. Warrant, to whom directed, and what to require.
Mode of proceeding in executing warrant.
Proceeding in case of perishable property or vessels.
Interest in corporations or associations, liable to attachment.
Atsaehment, how executed on property incapable of manual
e ivery.
Certificate of det'endant’s interest to be fumhhed by corporation.

Judgment, how satisfied.

When action to recover notes, &c., of defendant may be
prosecuted by plaintifff in the action in which the attachment issued.
Bond to sherid‘ on attachment, how disposed of, on judgment
for defendant.
Discharge of attachment and return of property, or its proceeds, to defendant, on his appearance in action.
Undertaking on the part of the defendant.
. .When sheriffto return warrant and proceedings thereon.
Sheriff's fees. _ § 227. In an action for the recovery of money, against
a corporation created, by or under the laws of any other
state, government, or country, or against a defendant who
is not a resident of this state, or against a defendant who
has absconded or concealed himself as hereinafter mentioned, the plaintifff, at the time of issuing the summons,
or at any time afterwards, may have the property of such
defendant attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed,
as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the
plaintifff may recover. '

§ 228. A warrant of attachment must be obtained from
a judge of the court in which the action is brought, or
from a county judge.

§229. The warrant may be issued whenever it shall
appear by aiiidavit, that a cause of action exists against
such defendant, specifying the amount of the claim, and
the grounds thereoi, and that the defendant is either a
foreign corporation, or not a resident of this state, or has
departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors or

§t"3§ § § :‘-°:.§ 5?»? §:§§§

to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent.

§ 230. Before issuing the warrant, the judge shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintin’,
with sufficient surety, to the effect, that if the defendant
recover judgment, the plaintih‘ will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
may sustain, by reason of the attachment, not exceeding
the sum specilied in the undertaking, which shall be at
least two hundred and fifty dollars.

§ 231. The warrant shall be directed to the sherif of any
county in which property of such defendant may be, andshall
require him to attach and safely keep all the property of such
defendant within his county, or so much thereof as may be
sujicient to satisfy the plainttf’s demand together with cast:
and expenses. The amount of which must be stated in conformity with the complaint,‘ together with costs and expenses.

Several warrants may be issued at the same time to the
sherzfs of difermt counties.

§ 232. The sheriff to whom such warrant of attachment
is directed and delivered, shall proceed thereon in all respects, in the manner required of him by law in case of
attachments against absent debtors, shall make and return
an inventory, and shall keep the property seized by him,
or the proceeds of such as shall have been sold, to answer
any judgment which may be obtained in such action, and
shall, subject to the direction of the court or judge,collect
and receive into his possession all debts, credits and elfeets
of the defendant. The sheriff may also take such legal
proceedings, either in his own name or in the name of such
defendant, as may be necessary for that purpose, and discontinue the same at such times and on such terms as the
court or judge may direct.

, § 233. If any property so seized shall be perishable, orif
I any part of it be claimed by any other person than such defondant, or if any part of it consist of a vessel, or of any
share or interest therein, the same proceedings shall be
had in all respects as are provided by law upon attachments against absent debtors.

(}234. The rights or shares which such defendant may
have in the stock of any association, or corporation, to-J
gether with the interest, and proiits thereon, and all other
property in this state of such defendant, shall be liable to
be attached and levied upon and sold to satisfy the judgment and execution. ’

§ 235. The execution of the attachment upon any such:
rights, shares, or any debts or other property incapable of;
manual delivery to the sheriff, shall be made by leaving a
certified copy of the warrant of attachment with the pre-‘
sident or other head of the association or corporation, or
the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof, or with
the debtor or individual holding such property, with a
notice showing the property levied on.

§236. Whenever the sherif shall with a warrant of attachment, or execution against the defendant, apply to
such officer, debtor or individual, for the purpose of at-I
taching, or levying upon, such property, such officer,
debtor, or individual, shall furnish him with a certificate
under his hand, designating the number of rights or shares
of the defendant in the stock of such association or corporation, with any dividend, or any encumbrance thereon, or
the amount and description of the property, held by such
association, corporation or individual, for the benefit of,
or debt owing to the defendant. If such officer, debtor or
individual refuse to do so, he may be required by the court
or judge to attend before him, and be examined on oath,
concerning the same, and obedience to such orders may
be enforced by attachment. ’

§ 237. In case judgment be entered for the plaintifff, in
such action, the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the

property attached by him, if it shall be sumcient for that
Pm'P°9°S .

1. .By paying over to such plaintih‘ the proceeds of all
sales of perishable property, and of any vemel, or sharear
interest in any vessel sold by him, or of any debts or eredits collected by him or so much as shall be necessary on
satisfy such judgment;

2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall
have been issued on such judgment, he shall proceedta
sell under such execution so much of the attached property, real or personal, except as provided in subdivision four
of this section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance,
if enough for that purpose shall remain in his hands; and
in case of the sale of any rights or shares in the stock of:
corporationor association, the sheriff shall execute to $0
purchaser a oertincate of sale thereof, and the pink:
shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges inespect thereto which were had by such defendant.

3. If any of the attached property belonging to the
defendant, shall have passed out of the hands of the shutif without having been sold or converted into money,
such sheriff shall re-possess himself of the same, and for
that purpose shall have all the authority which he had to
seize the same under the attachment, and any person who
shall willfully conceal or withhold such property from the
sheriil‘, shall be liable to double damages at the suit
of the party injured.

4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be
paid, the sheriff may proceed to collect the notes, and
other evidences of debt and the debts that may have been
seized or attached under the warrant of attachment, and
to prosecute any bond he may have taken in the course
of such proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to
the payment of the judgment.

When the judgment and all costs of the proceedings ml!
have been paid, the sheriff upon reasonable demand, shall

dehver over to the defendant the residue of the attached
property or the proceeds thereof.

§238. The actions herein authorized to be brought by
the sheriff, may be prosecuted by the plaintifff, or under his
direction, upon the delivery by him to the sheriff of an
undertaking executed by two suiiicient sureties, to the
efect that the plaintifff will indemnify the sheriff from all
damages, cosm and expenses on account thereof, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in any one action.
Such sureties shall in all cases, when required by the
sheriff justtw, by making an affidavit that each is a householder, and worth double the amount of the penalty of
the bend, over and above all demands and liabilities.

§239. If the foreign corporation or absent or absconding or concealed defendant, recover judgment against the
plaintiii‘,- in such action, any bond taken by the sherili}
except such as are mentioned in the "last section, all the
proceeds of sales and monies collected by him, and all the
property attached remaining in his hands, shall be delivered by him tc the defendant or his agent on request and
the warrant shall be discharged, and the property released
therefrom. ’ ‘

§ 240. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in
such action, he may apply to the oiiicer who issued the
attachment, or to the court, for an order to discharge the
same, and if the same be granted all the proceeds of sales
and monies collected by him, and all the property attached remaining in his hands, shall be delivered or paid

«by him to the defendant or his agent and released from

the attachment.

§ 241. Upon such application, the defendant shall deliver to the pourt or officer an undertaking executed by‘
at least two sureties, resident and freeholders in this state,
approved by such court or officer, to the effect that the
sureties will on demand pay to the plaintifff, the amount
of the judgment that maybe recovered against the defondant in the action, not exceeding the sum specihcd in
the undertaking, which shall be at least double the amount
claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint.

§2-12. When the warrant shall be fully executed or
discharged, the sheriff shall return the same, with his
proceedings thereon, to the court in which the action was
brought. '

§ 243. The sheriff shall be entitled to the same fee!
and compensation for services,and the same disbursements
under this title, as are allowed by law for like services
and disbursements under the provisions of chapter live,
title one, and part two of the Revised Statutes.

Caner:-zn V.

Provisional Remedies.

Sxcnol 244. Powers of court as to receivers, deposit of money, he, in
court. and other provisional remedies.

§ 244. .8 receiver may be appointed:

1. Before judgment, provisionally, on the application 9]
either party, when he establishes a prima facie right to sud
property which is the subject of the action, mid which is‘:
the possession of an adverse party, and the property, orit:
rents and profits, are in danger of being lost or materially
injured or impaired.

2. .dfter judgment, to carry the judgment into gfect.

3. .dfter judgment, to dispose of the property accordiagla
the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an
appeal, or when an execution has been returned 
and the judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in setisfaction qf the judgment.

4. In the cases provided in this code, and by special statutes,
when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, aria
imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeitedits corporate
rights. ’

5. In such other cases as are now providedby law or my
be in accordance with the existing practice except as otherwise provided in this act.

D

The court may grant the other provisional remedies now
eznisting according to the present practice except as otherwise
provided in this act.

_Whenit is admitted by the pleading or easamrinatian qfa
party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any

money or other thing caqrable of delivery, which, being the
subject of the litigation, is held byhim as trustee for another
party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the court
anay order the same to be deposited in court, or delivered to
such party, with or without security, -subject to the further
direction of the court. .

Whenever, in the exercise of  authority, a court shall
have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing,
and the orders’: disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the
disobedience, as for contempt, may make an order, reqmlfing
the sheaf to take the money or thing and deposit‘ or deliver
it, in conformity with the  of the court.

When the answer of the defendant admits part of the
 claim to be just, the court on motion, may order
suchdefendanttro satigfy that part of the claim,and may
enforce the order as it enforce: a provisional remedy.

TITLE VIII.
Of the trial and judgment in civil actions.

Crurrn I. Judgment upon failure to answer.
II. Issues and the mode of trial.
III. Trial by jury.
IV. Trial by the court.
V. Trial by referees.

VI. The manner of entering judgment.

Cusp-_r1.-zn I.

Judgment upon failure to answer.

Sumo! 245. Judgment, what.
246. Judgment on failure of defendant to answer.
247. Judgment on frivolous demurrer, answer or reply.

§245. A judgment is the linal determination of the
rights of the parties in the action.

I} 246. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to
answer the complaint, as follows:

1. In any action arising on contract, for the recovery
of money only, the plaintiii‘ may file with the clerk, proof
of personal service of the summons and complaint, once:
or more of the defendants, or of the summons, according
to the provisions of section 130, and that no answer ha

been received. The clerk shall thereupon enter jndg-ment for the amount mentioned in the summons, against
the defendant or defendants, or ‘against one or more of
several defendants, in the cases provided for in section
136. But if the complaint be not sworn to, and such
action is on an instrument for the payment of money only,
the clerk, on its production to him, shall assess the amount
due to the plaintiff thereon ; and in other cases shall ascertain the amount which the plaintifff is entitled to recover in such action, from his examination under oath, 01
other proof, and enter the judgment for the amount so assessed _or ascertained. In case the defendant-give notice of
appearance in the action he shall be entitled to dve days
notice of the time and place of such assessment.

. 2. In other actions the plaintiff may, upon the like
proof apply to the court, after the expiration -of the time
for answering, for thegelief demanded in the complaint. If
the taking of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into efect, the court may take the account or hear the
proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the action is for the recovery of money only,
or of specific real or personal property, with damages for the
withholding thereof, the court may order the damages to be
assessed by a jury, or  the examination of a long account
be involved, by a reference as above provided. If the defendant give notice of appearance in the action before the expiration of the ‘time for answering, he shall be entitted to eight
days notice of the time and place of application to the court
for the relief demanded by the complaint.

3. In actives where the service of the summons was by publication, the plaintiff may in like manner apply for judgment
and the court must thereupon require procy to be made of the
demand mentioned in the complaint, and if the defendant be
not a resident of the State, must require the plaintiff or his
agent to be examined on oath respecting any payments that

' have been made to the plaintiffor to any one for his use, on
account of such demand, and may render judgment for the
amount which he is entitled to recover. Be/ore rendering
judgment the court may, in its discretion, require the plaintiff
to cause to be filed satisfactory security to abide the ordegqf
the court touching the restitution of any estate or efects which
may be directed by such judgment to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any money that may be collected
under orbyvirtue of such judgment, in case the defendant or
his representatives shall apply and be admitted to defend the
action, aud shall succeed in such defense.

§ 247. If a"demurrer, answer, or reply be frivolous, the
party prej udjced thereby, upon a previous notice of ‘live
days may apply to a judge of the court, either in or out of

the court, for judgment thereon, and judgment maybe
given accordingly.

CHAPTER II.Issue: and the mode of Trial.

Sxcrxox 248.‘ The diferent kinds of iuues.

249. Issue of law.

250. Issue of fact.

25]. On issuesofbothlawandfact, the issneoflawtobelirsth-ind.
252. Trial what.

258. Islll:i0rfe(?Nctt0b0tl"iOdb)' jury,unlms waivedor return:

0 e .

254. Other issues to be tried by the eonrt.
255. All imues to be tried before a single judge.

258. Either party may give notice of trial. Rate of ime.
257. Order of disposing ofissues on the calendar.

. § 248. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by the one party and contreverted by the other. They are of two kinds:
1. Of law ; and
2. Of fact.
§249. An issue of law arises,_
1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply,
or to some part thereof.
{} 250. An issue of fact arises,
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer; or,
2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the
reply; or, _
3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of la!
is Joined thereon.
, § 251 . Issues both ‘of law and of fact may arise upon dif[ferent parts ‘of the pleadings in the same action. In such
cases, the issues of law must be first tried miles the court
otherwise direct. '
. §252. .tln issue oflaw must be tried by the court, Helm?
be referred, as provided in sections 270 and 271. .31: ismef
fact, in an action for the recovery of money only, or of Ir!“
cffic real or personal property, or for a divorce from the“riage contract on the ground qf adultery, must be trinity!

jury, unless a jury trial be waived as provided in section 266,
or a reference be ordered as provided in sections 270 and 271.
§ 253. Whenever in an action for the recovery of money}
only, or of specific read or personal property, there shall}
be an issue of fact, it must be tried by a jury unless a jury:
trial be waived, as provided in section 266, or reference
be ordered, as provided in sections 270 and 271.
§ 254. Every other issue is triable by the court, which,;
however, may order the whole issue, or any specific ques-;
tion of fact involved therein, to be tried by a jury ; or may
refer it, as provided in sections 270 and 271. ‘
§ 255. All issues of fact, triable by a jury or by court,
-must be tried before a single judge. Issues of fact in the‘.
supreme court, must be tried at a circuit court when the trial
is by jury, otherwise at a circuit court or special term, as
the court may by its rules prescribe. Issues of law must be
tried at a general term, unless the court order the trial to be
had at a special term.
§ 256. At any time after issue, and at least ten days before the court, either party may give notice of trial. The
party giving the notice shall furnish the clerk at least four
days before the court with a note of the issue containing
the title of the action, the names of the attorneys and the
time when the last pleading was served; and the clerk

shall thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar, according to the date of the issue.

(} 257. The issues on the calendar shall be disposed of
in the following order; unless, for the convenience of parties, or the dispatch of business, the court shall otherwise
direct:

1. Issues of fact to be‘ tried by a'jury ;

2. Issues offaet to be tried by the court;
- 3. Issues of law.

CHAPTER III.
Trial by Jury.

Snonox 258. Either [party may bring issue to trial.

259. Plainti » to furnish court with copy summons, pleadings, inc.

260. General and s cial verdicts defined. ' _

261. Verdict in act on for recovery of specific personal property,
when in action for recovery of money only, or real property, jury may render either general or special verdict;
and when court may direct special finding.

262. Onkpecial finding, with general verdict, former to control.

. In actions for recovery of money only, jury to assess dama268
264. Entry of verdict.
265. Judgment when to be entered.

§ 258. Either party giving the notice, may bring the issue
‘to trial, and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the
court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with his
case, and take a dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict or
judgment, as the case may require. .3 separate trial between
a plaintiff and any of the several defendants, may be allowed
by the court, whenever, in its opinion, justice will thereby be
promoted.

§ 259. When the issue shall be brought to trial by the
plaintiff, he shall furnish the court with a copy of the summans and pleadings with the qfer er defendant, ¢f_any shat!
have been made. When the issue shall be brought to trial by
the defendant, and the plaintzf shall neglect or refuse to fwnish the court with a copy of the summons and pleadings and
the qfer of the defendant, the same may be furnished by the
defendant. _

§ 260. A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce generally upon _all or any of the issues, either in
favor of the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is
that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the
judgment to the court. _

§ 261. In an action for the recovery of specific personal
property, if the property have not been delivered to the
plaintiii‘, or the defendant by his answer claim a return

thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the property, if
their verdict be in favor of the plaintih‘, or if they find in
favor of the defendant, and that he is entitled to a return F
thereof; and may at the same time assess the damages, if
any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the
prevailing .party has sustained by reason of the detention
or taking and withholding such property. .
In every action for the recovery of money only, or spe- 1
ciflc real property, the jury, in their discrétion, may ren-E
.der a general or special verdict. In all other cases the‘,
court may direct the jury to find a special verdict in writ-’,
ing, upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases may:
instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to iindi
upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing,:
and may direct a written finding thereon. The special
verdict or iinding shall be filed with the clerk, and en-‘
tered upon the minutes.
§ 262. Where a special hnding of facts shall be incon-5
sistent with the general verdict, the former shall control;
the latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly.f
§ 263. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an;
' action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant when:
a set-of for the recovery qf money is established, beyond the
amount of the plaintiff ’s claim as established, the jury must
also assess the amount of the recovery; they may also, under
~ the direction of the court, assess the amount of the recovery
when the court give judgment for the plainttf on the answer.
If a set-of, established at the trial, exceed the plaintz_°f’s demand so established, judgment for the defendant must be
given for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other qfirmative relief, judgment must be given
accordingly.
§ 264. Upon receiving a verdict, the clerlcqhall make an
entry inhis minutes, specifying the time and place of the
trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and

either the judgment to be rendered thereon, or an order that
the cause be reserved for argument or further 
The justice trying the cause may, in his discretion, and ma
such terms as may be just, stay the entry qfjudg-mat at
further proceedings, until the hearing and final decision of a
motion for new trial, or to set aside the verdict or judgmezt,
upon the grounds of surprise or irregularity, or upon a case
or bill of exceptions.

The court shall have power to order a verdict to be enterd,
subject to the opinion of the court thereon. The judge who’
tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion to
be made onhis minutes to set aside a verdict and grants
new trial upon exceptions, or as being against evidence, or for
insajicient evidence, or for excessive damages; but such.»
tion in actions hereafter tried, shall only be heard upon the
minutes at the same term or circuit atwhich thetrialishd,
andif notheardatthesametermorcircuitinadionshae
Q/ler tried, themotionmust bemadeupona case or bill ofteceptions, or uponappeal. When such motion-is heasdaai
decided upon the minutes of the judge, an appeal my be
takenfrom such decision, and in case ofappeal, a case orbiu‘l'
qfezceptionsmustbepreparedandsettledin the mdfam.
and upon which case or bill of exceptions the argument of the
appeal must be had.

After the trial of a cause, either party may, in the menu
prescribed by law and the rules of the court in which the action is pending, make and settle a case or bill of .'eJ:ceptio:u,
which when settled shall be jiled, and when filed after
ment, shall be attached to and become a part of the
roll. ' e

§265. Motionsforanao trialon a case orbill¢y"erctp'tions, motionsforjudgmentona special new-dictorcasermm
ed subject to the opinion ofthe court, shallinthejirstinstom
be heard anddecidedat a special term,wzle:s ttujusticetrr

ing the cause shall direct it to be heard in the jirst instance at
a general term. If such order is granted, directing it to be
heard at a general term, such motion may then be noticed and
brought on to argument by either party at a general term of
such court, and the court shall hear and decide the same.

‘CHAPTER IV.

Trial by the court.

Szcrxoic 266. Trial by ‘ury how waived. _
’ 267. On trial y the court, judgment to be given In twenty days.
268 Exceptions, how and when taken.

269: Proceedings upon judgment on issue of law.

(3 266. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties, to an issue of fact, in ‘actions on contract, and with
the assent of the court, in other actions, in the manner following : .

1. By failing to appear at the trial.

2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed
with the clerk.

3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.

I} 267. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court,

‘its decision shall be given in writing, and med with the‘
clerk, within twenty’ days after the court at which the
trial took place. Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly. ' '

§ 268. For the purposes of an appeal, either party may except to a decision on a matter of law arising upon such trial,
within ten days after notice in writing, of the judgment, in
the same manner, and with the same efect as upon a trial by
jury. .«9nd either party desiring a review upon the evidence
appearing on the trial, either of the questions of fact or of
law, may at any time within ten days after notice of the judgment, or within such time as may be prescribed by the rules
of the court, make a bill of exceptions or case containing so
much of the evidence and such exceptions as may be material
to the question to be raised. The bill of exceptions or case

shall be settled as provided by the rule: of the court,  the
judge in settling such case shall briejiy specify the facts foul
by him and his conclusions of law.

§269. On a judgment for the plaintgf upon an 
law, the plaintiff may proceed in the manner prescribed bytbc
first two sub-divisions of section two hundred and 
upon the failure of the defendant to ems-wer, where the sammons was personally served. If judgment be for the defendant, upon an issueqflaw, andzftaking qfan accoun.t,or the
proof of any fact, be necessary to enable the court to complete
the judgment, a reference or assessment by jury may be ordered, as in that. section provided.

CHAPTER V.
Trial by referees.

Station 270. All issues referable b consent.
' 271. When reference may compulsorily ordered.
272. Report to stand as decision of the court.
273. Referees, how chosen.

§ 270. All or any of the issues in the action, whethaaf
fact or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written
consent of the parties.

C; 271. Where the parties do not consent, the court may,
upon the application of either, or of its own motion, ex-'
cept where the investigation will require the decision of
diiiicult questions of law, direct a reference in the following casest

1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the
examination of a long account on either side; in which
case, the referees may be directed to hear and decide the
whole issue, or to report upon any speciiic question of fact
involved therein; or,

2. Where the taking of an ‘account shall be necessary
for the information of the court, before judgment, or for
carrying a judgment or order into edect; or,

3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage
of the action.

§ 272. The  by referees is conducted in the same manner as a trial by court. They have the same power to grant
adjournments as the court upon such trial. They must state
the facts found and the conclusions of law separately, and
their decision must be given, and may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. The report of the referees upon the
whole issue stands as the decision of the court, and judgment
may be entered thereon ‘in the same manner as if the action
had been tried by the court. When the reference is to report
the facts, the report has the efect of a special verdict.

§273. In all cases of reference, the parties, except when
an infant'may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person,
or persons, not exceeding three, 'and the reference shall be ordered accordingly; and,  the parties do not agree, the court
shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who

. shall be free from exception.

Cnsprsn VI.

Manner of entering judgment.

Sxcnorz 274. Judgment may be for or against any of the parties.
276. The reliefto be awarded to the plaintifff.

276. Rate of damages, where damages are recoverable.
277. Judgment in action for recovery of personal property.

278. Judgment upon issue of liw or of fact, to be upon direction

of a single judge, or on report of referees; subject to review at general term.

279. Clerk to keep a judgment book.

%. Judgment to be entered in judgment book.
1. J u

dgment roll.
282. Judgment, in what cases and how to be docketed.

§274. Judgment may be given, for or against one or
more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more
of several defendants, and it may determine the ultimate
rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves.
In an action against several defendants, the court may‘, in
_its discretion, render judgment against one or more of
them, leaving the action to proceed against the others,
whenever a several judgment may be proper. The court
may also dismiss the complaint, with costs, in favor of one
or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect

1
I
1
1

I

on the part of the plaintifff to serve the summons on other
defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the defendant or defendants served.

. § 275. The relief granted to the plaintih‘, if there be no

0 answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but in any other case, the court may
grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the
complaint and embraced within the issue.

_ § 276. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff
may claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any rate of damages, which he might have heretofore
recovered for the same cause of action.

{}277. In an action to recover the possession of person- _

.al property, judgment tbr the plaintifff may be for the
possession, or for the recovery of possession, or the value

thereof, in cases delivery cannot be had, and of damages .

for the detention. If the property have been delivered to
the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof,
judgment for the defendant may be for a- return of the
property, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be
had, and damages for taking and withholding the same.

§ 278. Judgment upon an issue of law not tried at a general term or, an issue of fact, or ‘upon confession, or upon
failure to answer, (except where the clerk is authorized td'
enter the same by the first sub-division of section two hundred
and forty-six, and by section three hundred and eighty-fostr,)
shall in the jirst instance be entered upon the direction of a
single judge, or report of refenies, subject to review at the
general term on demand of either party, as herein provided.

{} 279. The clerk shall keep among the records of the
court, a book for the entry of judgments, to be called the
“judgment book.”

{}280. The judgment shall be entered in the judgment
book, and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other
determination of the action.

§ 281. Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a
judgment roll, the clerk, immediately after entering the
judgment, shall attach together and file the following papers, which shall constitute the judgment roll;

1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons and complaint, or copies thereof,
proof of service, and that no answer has.been received,
the report, if any, and a copy of the judgment.

2. In all other cases the summons, pleadings or copies
thereof, and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the ofer of the defendant, bill of exceptions, case, and
all orders relating to a change of parties, and all orders and
papers in any way involving the merits, and necessarily afooting the judgment. . '

§ 282. Onjiling a judgment roll upon a judgment, directing
in whole or in part the payment of money, it may be doclceted

with the clerlcof the county where it was rendered, andin any»

other county, upon the jiling with the clerk thereof a transcript
of the original “docket,” and shall be a lien on the real property in the county where the same is docketed, of every person
against whomany such judgment shall be rendered, and which
he may have at the time of doclceting thereof, in the county in
which such real estate is situated, or which he shall acquire at
any time thereafter for ten years from the time of doclceting the
same in the county where it was rendered. But whenever an
appeal from any judgment shall be pending, and the undertaking requisite to stay execution on such judgment shall have
been given, and the appeal perfected as provided in the (Slide,
the court in which such judgment was recovered may, on special motion, after notice to the person owning the judgment, in
such terms as they shall see fit, direct on entry to be made by
the clerk on the docket of such‘ judgment that the same is “secured on appeal,” and thereupon it shall cease during the pending of the appeal to be a lien on the real property of the judgment debtor as against purchasers and mortgagees in good faith.

‘11TLE:DL .
Of the execution of the judgment in civil actions.

Gnu-rxn I. The execution.
II. Proceedings supplementary to the execution.

CHAPTER I. '

The execution.

Section 288. Execlution within five years, of course, as prescribed by this
tit e.

284. After five years to be issued only by leave of court. Leave,
how obtained. Execution on judgment of justices’ or
other inferior courts when docketed, how issued.

Other judgments, how enforced.

The different kinds of execution.

To what counties execution may be issued.

Execution against. the person, in what cases, and wlnn.
Form of the execution.

To be returnable in sixty days.

91. Existing laws relating to execution continued, until ot.ha‘~

wise provided.

'°:§:§§§5§:§

{} 283. Writs of execution for the enforcement of judgments as now used, are modiiied in conformity to this title,
and the party in whose favor judgment has been heretofore or shall hereafter be given, may at any time within
five years after the entry ot judgment, proceed to enforce
the same as prescribed by this title.

§284. .z9fter the lapse of five years from the entry of

_ judgment, an execution can be issued only by leave of the

court, upon motion, with personal notice to the adverse party,
unless he be absent or nonvresident, or cannot be found to
make such service, in which case such service may be made by
publication, or in such other: manner as the court shall direct.
Such leave shall not be given, unless it be established by the
oath of the party, or other‘ satisfactory proqf that Ihejudgment or some part thereof remains unsatisjied and due.

When judgment shall have been rendered in a court qfjus'tice of the peace, or in a justice’s or other inferior court in a

petty, and doclceted in the qyice of the clerk of the county, the

application for leave to issue execution must be to the county
court of the county where the judgment was rendered, or in

the city and county of JV'ew- York, to the court of common}
pleas of that city and county.
§ 285. Where a j udgment requires the payment of -money;
or the delivery of real or personal property, the same may
be enforced in those respects by execution, as provided in
this title. Where it requires the performance of any other
act, a certified copy of the judgment may by served upon
the party against whom it is given, or the person or oiiicer
who is-required thereby, or by law, to obey the same,-and
his obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse he may be
unished by the court as for a contempt.
§ 286. There shall be three kinds of execution; one
against the property of the judgment debtor; another against
his person; and the third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, or such delivery with
damages for withholding the same. They shall be deemed
the prooess.of the court, but they need not be sealed nor
subscribed, except as prescribed in section 289.
{}287. When the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sherif of any county
where the judgmentis docketed. When it requires the delivery qf real or personal property it must be issued to the sherif of the county where the property, or some part thereof, is
situated. Executions -may be issued at the same time to def-_
jerent counties. Real property adjudged to be sold, must be
sold in the county where it lies, by the sherif of the county,
or by a referee appointed by the court for that purpose, and
thereupon the .shen'.f, or referee must execute a conveyance to
the purchaser, which conveyance shall be efeetual to pass the
rights and interests of the partieradjudged by the decree to
be sold.
§288. If the action be one in which the defendant
might have been arrested, as provided in section 179 and
section 181, an execution against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued to any county within the jurisdiction of the court, after the return of an executim
against his property unsatisiied in whole or in part.
{} 289. The execution must be directed to the sheri£,oI

.c6roner, when the sheriff is a party or inteiestedmh»

scribed by the party issuing it, or his attorney, andlm
intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the conrtth
county where the judgment roll or transcript is £led,th0
names of the parties, the amount of the judgment,if it
be for money, and the amount actually due thereomlhd
the time of docketing in the county to which theexear
tion is issued, and shall require the oiiieer substnntknl
as follows: . q

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debt‘:
it shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment ontd
the personal property of such debtor, and if suifzdm
personal property cannot be found, out of the real pm?
erty belonging to him on.the day when the jndgmentu
docketed in the county, or at any time thereafter:

2. If it be against real or personal property in the

hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, lcgattd.
tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall require ti?!

oilicer to satisfy the judgment out of such property:

3. If it beagainst the person of the judgment debtor»
it shall require the onicer to arrest such debtor, and cw
mit him to the jail of the county until he shall pay Ill
judgment, or be discharged according to law :

4. If it be for the delivery of the powession of real‘!
personal property, it shall require the officer to deliva
the possession of the same, particularly describing it, 9
the party entitled thereto, and may at the sameb
require the oiii cer to satisfy any costs, damages, or rm
and profits, recovered by the same judgment out of theptr
sonal property of the party against whom it was mended
and the value of the property for which the judgment!“
recovered, to be specined therein, if a delivery that!‘ .
cannot be had, and if suilicient personal property can‘

he found, then out of the real property belonging to him on
the day when the judgment was docketed or at any time
thereafter, and shall in that respect be deemed an execu- tion against property.

§290. The execution shall be returnable within sixty
days after its receipt by the officer to the clerk with whom
the record of judgment is filed. .

§ 291. Until otherwise provided by the legislature, the ca‘isting provisions of law not in conjiict with this chapter, relating to executions, and their» incidents, the property liable
to sale on execution, the sole and redemption thereof, the powers and rights of qficers, their duties thereon, and the proceeding: to enforce those duties, and the liability of their sureties,
shall apply to the executions prescribed by this chapter.

Cnsr-‘ran II.

Proceedings supplementary to the ea:ecut2°on.

Sncrrox 202.

293.
294.

295.

296.

297.
298.

299.

300.
801 .
802.

When execution returned unsatisfied, order for discovery of
property allowed. Also when judgment debtor refuses to

apply property to satisfy judgment. Manner of proceeding to examine judgment debtor.

Any debtor may pay execution against his creditor.

Examination of debtors of judgment debtor or of those
having propert belonging to him. Witness require to testify.

Compelling party or witnesses to attend. Examinations
when to be on oath.

Judge may order property to be applied on execution.

Judge may appoint receiver, and prohibit transfer, &c., of
property.

Proceedings upon claim of another party to property, or on
denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.

Reference by judge.

Costs of proceedings.

Disobedience of order, how punished.

§ 292. When an execution against property of the judgment:
debtor, or of any one of the several debtors in the samejudg-,‘
gnent, issued to the sherwf of the county where he resides, orl
if he do not reside in the state, to the sherif of the county‘
where a judgment roll, or a transcript of a justice’: judgment,
for twenty-jive dollars or upwards, exclusive of costs, is filed, is
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor,
at any time after such return made, is entitled to an order

jromajudge qfthecaurt, oracountyjudge ofthe aountytu
which the enectttion was issued, or a judge of the court of
common pleas for the city and county of .N‘eza-York, when
the execution was issued to such city and county, requiring
such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his

property, before such judge, at a time and place specrjied in
the order, within the county to which the execution was issued.
./Yfter the issuing qf an execution against property, and upon
‘proof by agfidavit, of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of the court, or a judge thereof, or county judge, or any judge
‘of the court of common pleas for the ciry and county of NewYorlc, that any judgment debtw, residing in the county where
such judge or qficer resides, has property, which he unjustly
refuses to apply towards ‘the satisfaction of the judg-ment,’sI:d
court or judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor
to appear at a speci_’/ied time and place, to answer concerning the
same: and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the property of the  debtor towards the satisfaction qf the judgment as are provided upon the return of an
execution. On an examination under this section, either party
may examine witnesses in his behatf, and the judgment debtor
may be examined in the same manner as a witness. Instead 19'
the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the

h judge may, upon proof by ajidaoit or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that there is danger of the debtor’: leaving the state, or
concealing himself, and that there is reason to believe he has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment,
issue a warrant requiring the sherry of any county where such
debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before such 
Upon being brought before the judge, he may be examined on
aath, and it then appears that there is danger of the debtor’:
leaving the State, and that he has property which he has unjustly refused to apply to such judgment, ordered to enter into an
undertaking with one or more sureties, that he will from time
to time attend before the judge as he shall direct, and that he

will not, during the pendcncy of " the proceedings, dispose my’

any  of his property, not exempt from execution. In
default of entering into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison, by warrant of the judge as for a contempt.
JVQ person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter, be
excused from answering any question on the ground that his
examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a
fraud ; but his answer shall not be used as evidence against
him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution.

{}293. After the issuing of execution against property,;

any person indebted to the judgment debtor, may pay to;
the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as‘

shall be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff’s
receipt shall be a suiiicient discharge for the amount so

pald.
§294. After the issuing or return of an execution against}
property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several,‘
debtors in the same judgment, and upon an aiiidavit, that?
any person or corporation has property of such judgment?
debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding ten
dollars, the judge may by an order require such person or
corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to appear
at a specified time and place, and answer concerning the
same. The judge may also, in his discretion, require
notice of such proceeding to be given to any party to the
action, in such manner as may seem to him proper.

§ 296. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify
on any proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner
as upon the trial of an issue.

§ 296. The party or witness may be required to attend
before the judge, or before a referee, appointed by‘ the
court or judge; if before a referee, the examination shall
be taken by the referee, and certified to the judge. All
examinations and answers before a judge or referee, under
this chapter, shall be on oath, except that when a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the oath of an odieer thereof.

§ 297. The judge may order any property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be
applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment, except 
the earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any
time within sixty days next preceding the order, cannot be so
applied, when it is made to appear by the debtor’s ¢gfida1eit,or
otherwise, that such,earnings are necessary for the use qf a
family supported wholly or partly by his labor.

§ 298. The judge may also by order appoint a receiver of
the property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner and
with the like authority as  the appointment was made by the
court according to section 244. But before the appointment

of such receiver, the judge shall ascertain,  practicable, by the oath of the party, or otherwise, whether any other supplementary proceedings are pending against the judgment debtor,
and  such proceedings are so pending, the plaintiff therein
shall have notice to appear before him, and shall likewise have
notice of all subsequent proceedings in relation to said receivership. No more than one receiver of the property ¢y' a
judgment debtor shall be appointed. The judge may also by
order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of
the judgment debtor not exempt from execution, and any isterference therewith. .

§ 299. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged
to have property of the judgment debtor or indebted to
him, claims an interest in the property, adverse to him,
or denies the debt, such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an action against such person or corporation
by the receiver; but the? judge may, by order, forbid 3
transfer or other disposition of such property or interest,
till a suiiicient opportunity be given to the receiver to
commence the action, and prosecute the same to judgment
and execution ; but such order may be modified or dissolved, by the judge granting the same, at any time, on such
security as he shall direct.

§ 300. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to. a referee agreed upon or appointed by him, to
report the evidence or the facts.

{; 301. The judge may allow to the judgment creditor,
or to any party so examined, whether a party to the action
or not, witnesses’ fees and disbursements, and a fixed sum
in addition, not exceeding thirty dollars, as costs.

§30.‘.3. If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of

- the judge or referee duly served, such person, party or witness

may be punished by the judge as for a contempt. dad in all
cases of commitment under this chapter, or the act to abolish

imprisonment for debt, the person committed may, in case of
inability to perform t/3 act required, or to endure the imprinonment, be discharged from imprisonment, by the court or
judge committing him, or the court in which the jttdgment
was rendered, on such terms as may be just:

TITLE X.

Of the costs in civil actions.

8101103 303. Fee bill abolished. Allowances given, termed costs.
304. When allowed, of course, to plaintifff’.

305. When allowed to defendant.
306. When allowed to either party in the discretion of the court.

307. Amount of costs allowed.
308. Allowance, in addition, of a per centage on the recovery or
claim.
309. Per centagc, how computed.
310. Interest on verdict or report, when allowed.

311. Costa, how to be inserted in judgment.
312. Clerk’s fees.

813. Referee’s fees.

814. Costa on postponement of trial.

315. Costs on a motion.
816. Costs against infant plaintiil‘.
317. Costs in an action by or against an executor or administrator

trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized

by statute to sue. .
318. Costs on review of a decision of an inferior court, in a special

proceeding. '
819, 320. Costs in actions by the people.
321. Costs against assignee of cause of action after action brought

822. Costa on a settlement.
_§ 303. All statutes establishing or regulating the costs‘:

or fees of attorneys, solicitors and counsel in civil actions,
and all existing rules and provisions of law, restricting or
controlling the right of a party to agree with an attorney,

solicitor or counsel, for his compensation, are repealed;
and hereafter the measure of such confpensation shall he
left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties
But there may be allowed to the prevailing party, upon
the judgment, certain sums by way of indemnity, for ha
expenses in the action; which allowances are in thisad
termed costs.

§ 304. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff ,
upon a recovery, in the following cases :

1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or
when a claim of title to real property arises on the plea}
ings, or is certified by the court to have come in question
at the trial; __

2. In an action to recover the possession of person]
Property;

3. In the actions of which, according to section 51,:
court of a justice of the peace has no jurisdiction;

4. In an action for the recovery of money, wherethe
plamtitf shall recover fifty dollars or more. But inan
action for assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction, if the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars
damages, he shalllrecover no more costs than damages»
And in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, if the plaintifff recover less than iifty dollars
damages, he shall recover no more costs than damages,
unless he recovers also property, the value of which with
the damages amounts to fifty dollars. Such value mm
be determined by the jury, court or referee, by whom the
action is tried.

When several actions shall be brought on one band,
recognizance, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other
instrument in writing, or in any other case, for the saw
cause of action, against several parties who might ha?!
been joined as defendants in the same action, no cw
other than disbursements shall be allowed to the plainfifa

in more than one of such actions, which shall be at his

' election, provided’ that the party or parties proceeded

against in such other action or actions, shall at the time of
the commencement of the previous action or actions have
been'within this state, and not secreted.

§ 305. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defeildant,
in the actions mentioned in the last section, unless the‘
plaintifff‘ be entitled to costs therein.

« § 306. In other actions costs may be allowed or not, in the
discretion of the court. ;

In all action: 'where there are several defendants, not united}
in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers,‘
and the plaintzf fails to recover judgment against all, the
court -may award costs to such qf the defendant: as haoejudgmeat in their favor, or any of them.

In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in the
discretion of the court :

1. When a new trial shall be ordered.

2. When a jzldgment shall be gamed in part and reversed
in part.

§ 307. When allowed, costs shall be as follows :

1. To the plaintih‘, for all proceedings before notice of
trial (including judgment when ente!-ed,)

In an action where judgment upon failure to answer
may be had without application to the court, seven dollars; in an action where judgment can only be taken on
application to the court, twelve dollars; for all subsequent
proceedings before trial, seven dollars:

2. To the defendant; for all the proceedings before notice of trial, five dollars; for all subsequent proceeding
before trial, seven dollars:

3. For the trial of issues-of law, if separate from the
trial of issues of fact, to‘the plaintifff Mwn dollars; to the
defendant, twelve dollars: .

4. For the trial of the issues of fact, if separate from the
trial of the issues of law, to the plaintii!‘ fifteen dollars; to
the defendant twelve dollars , .

5. For the trial of the issues of fact and of law, wm
trihd at the same time, to the plaintifff twenty dollars; to
the defendant fifteen dollars:

6. To either party on appeal, except tothe court of eppwlx,
before argument, fifteen dollars ;for argument thirty dollar;

but this provision shall not apply to appeals from an only
grantingor denying a non-enumerated motion.

7. To either party on appeal to the court of appals;
before argument, twenty-five dollars; for argument, my

dollars:
8. To either party, for every circuit or term, at which

the cause is necessarily on the calendar, and not reached
or is postponed, excluding that at which it is tried or heard,

ten dollars.
§ 308. In addition to these allowances, if the action be

for the recovery of money, or of real or personal property,

and a trial has been had, the court may in diiiicult or extraordinary cases, make an allowance of not more than ten
per cent. on the recovery or claim, as in the next section
prescribed, for any amount not exceeding live hundred
dollars; and not more than five per cent. for any additional amount.

Such allowance may likewise be made, upon the recovery of judgment in any action for the partition of real
property, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or in which
a warrant of attachment has been issued, or for the construction of a will or other instrument in writing, and in
proceedings to compel the determination of claims to real
property, and also in any case where the proseeutionor
defense has been unreasonably or unfairly conducted.

§ 309. These rates shall be estimated as follows :

1. If the plaintiu‘ recover judgment, it shall be up!!!

the amount of money, or the value of the property recovered, or claimed, or attached, or aifected by the construction of the will, or sought to be partitioned, or the
amount found due upon the mortgage in an action for foreclosure: .
2. If the defendant recover judgment, it shall be upon

the amount of money, or the value of the property claimed
by the plaintiff, or attached or affected by the construction
of the will , or of the defendant’s interest in property sought

to be partitioned, or the amount claimed in an action for
foreclosure.

Such amount of value must be determined by the jury,
court, or referees, by whom the action is tried, or judgment rendered, or the commissioners appointed to make
partition in an action therefore.

{} 310. When the judgment is for the recovery of money,
interest from the time of the verdict or report, until judgment be finally entered, shall be computed by the clerk,
and added to the costs of the party entitled thereto.

§ 311. The clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment,
on the application of the prevailing party, upon two days‘?
notice to the other, the sum of the charges for costs, as
above provided, and the necessary disbursements and fees
of officers allowed by law, including the compensation of
referees, and the expense of printing the papers upon any
appeal. The disbursements shall be stated in detail, and
verified by afhdavlt, which shall be filed. '

§ 312. The clerlr shall receive,

On every trial, from the party bringing it on, one dol-T
lar; on entering a judgment by filing transc-ript,six cents:

On entering judgment, fifty cents; except in courts
where the clerks are salaried officers, and in such courts
one dollar. '

He shall receive no other fee, for any services wh atever
in a civil action, except for copies of papers, at the rate of
five cents for every hundred words.

§ 313. The fees of referees shall be three dollarsto each
for every day spent in the business of the reference; but
the parties may agree in writing upon any other rate of
compensation.
§ 314. When an application shall be made to a court or referees, to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse
party of a sum notexceeding ten dollars, besides the fees
of witnesses, may be imposed, as the condition of granting
the postponement.
§ 315. Costs may be allowed on a motion, in the discretion of the court, not exceeding ten dollars.
§ 316. When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintiff, the guardian by Whom he appeared in the action, shall
be responsible therefore, and payment thereof may be exiforced by attachment.
. . § 317. In an action prosecuted or-defended by an erecutor,
administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person aspressly authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered, as in
’an action by and against a person prosecuting or defending in
{his own right,but such costs shall be chargeable only upon or
collected of the estate, fund or party represented unless the
court shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintzf or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in such
action or defense. But this section shall not be construed
to allow costs against executors or administrators, where they
are now exempted therefrom, by section forty-one, of title
three, chapter sis: qf the second part of the Revised Statutes;
and whenever any claim against a deceasedperspn shall be referred pursuant to the provisions of the Revised Statutes, the
prbvailing party shall be entitled to recover the fees of referees and witnesses and other necessary disbursements, to be

taxed according to law. _
, ‘ § 318. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdicrtion, in a special proceeding, shall be brought before the
supreme court for review, such proceeding shall, for all
purposes of costs, be deemed an action at issue, on a question of law, from the time the same shall be brought into
the supreme court, and costs thereon shall be awarded
and collected in such manner as the court shall direct,
according to the nature of the case.

{} 319. In all civil actions prosecuted in the name of the
people of this state, by an oiiicer duly authorized for that
purpose, the people shall be liable for costs in the same
cases, and to the same extent, as private parties. If a
private person be joined with the people as plaintifff, he
shall be liable in the first instance for the defendant’s
costs 5 vrhich shall Iiot°.be recovered of the people, till after execution issued therefore against such private party
and returned unsatisiied.

‘ § 320. In an action prosecuted in the name of the people of this state for the recovery of money or property, or
to establish a right or claim, for the benefit of any county,
city, town, village, corporation or person, costs awarded
against the plaintifff, shall be a charge against the party
for whose benefit the action was prosecuted, and not
against the people.

{} 321. In actions, in ivhich the cause of action shall, by
assignment after the commencement of the action, or in
any other manner, become the property of a person not a
party to the action, such person shall be liable for the
costs, in the same manner as if he were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.

§ 322. Upon the settlement, before judgment, of any
action mentioned in section 304, no greater sum shall 
demanded from the defendant as costs, than at the rates
prescribed by that section.

TITLE XI.

0f appeals in civil actions.

Clnrrtn I. Appeals in general.
II. Appeals to the court of appeals.
III. Appeals to the supreme court from an inferior court.
IV. Appeals in the supreme court, and the superior court. Ii
the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, fr!
a single judge to the general term.
V. Appeal to the court of common pleas for the city and call!
of New-York, or to a county court, from an iietil
court.

CHAPTER I, ' Appeals in general.

Blcnon 823. Writs of error abolished, and appeals substituted.
324. Orders made out of court, how vacated or motlihe-.1.
325. Who may appeal.
326. Parties how designated on appeal.
3:37. Appeal how made.
328. Clerk to transmit papers to appellate court. _
829. Intermediate orders allccting the judgment, may be reftli
on the appeal.
330. Judgment on appeal.
83]. Certain appeals to be within two years.
332. Other appeals witlun thirty days.

§ 323. Writs of error in civil actions, as they have heretofore existed, are abolished, and the only mode of review‘

ing a judgment, or order, in a civil action, shall be that
prescribed by this title.
§ 324. An order, made out of court, without notice to

the adverse party, may be vacated or modified, without

notice, by the judge who made it, or may be vacated 0!
modified on notice, in the manner in which other motiani
are made.

§325. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases
prescribed in this title.

§ 326. The party appealing, shall be known as the 311*
pellant, and the adverse party as the respondent. But
the title of the action shall not be changed, in consequww

of the appeal.
§ 327. An appeal must be made by the service of a notice in writing, on the adverse party, and on the clerk:

with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, stating the appeal from the sameor some specified
part thereof. When a party shall give in good faith, notice of appeal from a judgment or order, and shall omit
through mistake, to do any other act ncc;ssary to perfect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the court may permit an amendment on such terms as may be just.

§328. Upon the appeal allowed by the second and third
chapters of this title, being perfected, the clerk with whom
the notice of appeal is file-d,shall, at the expenseof the
appellant, forthwith transmit to the appellate court a certified copy of the notice of appeal and of the judgment
roll. A

{}329. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may
review any intermediate order, involving the merits, and;
necessarily affecting the judgment.

§330. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the
appellate court may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment or order appealed from in the respect mentioned in
the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parties,
and may,if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When
the judgment is reversed or modiiied, the appellate court
may make complete restitution of all property and rights
lost by the erroneous judgment.

§33l. The appeal allowed by the second and third
chapters of this title must be taken within two years after
the judgment.

{;332. The appeal allowed by the fourth chapter of this
title, must be taken, Within thirty days, after written notice of the judgment or order shall have been given to the

party appealing.

CHAPTER II.

Appeals to the Court of Appeals.

Sxcrxox 333. In what cases. .

334. On any appeal security must. be given to pay costsuzi (haagcs, not exceeding $250, or deposit made, unless waived.

835. On judgment for money, security to stay execution.

336. Ifjludgmcnt be to deliver documents, they must. be dc-pail»
c .

337. It‘ to execute conveyance, it must be executed and deposited.

338. Security where judgment is to deliver property, forts}: of
mortgaged premises.

339. Stay ofprocct-dings upon security given.

840. Undertakings may be in one instrument, or several.

34! . Security to be approved and to justify. ,

34:3. Perishable property may be sold, notwithstanding appeaL

843. Undertaking must be filed.

§333. An appeal may be taken to the court of appeals,
in the cases mentioned in section 1 1.

§334. To render an appeal eifcctual for any purpose, I
written undertaking must be executed, on the part of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect, that the
appellant will pay all costs and damages which‘ maybe
awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding two
hundred and fifty dollars ; or that sum must be deposited
with the clerk, with whom thejudgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. Such undertaking
or deposit may be waived by a written consent on thepart
of the respondent. »

§335. If the appeal be from a judgment directing the
payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the
judgment, unless a written undertaking be executed on
the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the
effect, that if the judgment appealed from, or anywrt
thereof, be allirmed, the appellant will pay the amount
directed to be paid by the judgment, or the part of such
amount as to which the judgment shall be affirmed, it it
be affirmed only in part, and all damages which shall be
awarded against the appellant, upon the appeal.
» §336. If the judgment appealed from, direct the assign’ment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the
execution of the judgment shall not be stayed by appetl

unless the things required to be assigned or delivered, be
brought into court, or placed in the custody of such oilicer or receiver as the court shall appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into, on the part of the appellant, by
at least two sureties, and in such amount as the court or
ajudge thereof, or county judge shall direct, to the effect
that the appellant will obey the order of the appellate
court, upon the appeal. .

§ 337. If the judgment appealed from,direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of
the judgment shall not be stayed by the appeal, until the
instrument shall have been executed and deposited with
the clerk with whom the judgment is entered, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court.

§ 338. If the judgment appealed from, direct the sale or
delivery of possession of real property, the execution of
the same shall notbe stayed,unlessa written undertaking be
executed on the part of the appellant, with two sureties,
to the effect that during the possession of such property by
the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed,
any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed, he
will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property, from the time of the appeal until the delivery of posSession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a
sum to be fixed by ajudge of the court by which judgment
was rendered, and which shall be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged
premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon
the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for the payment of such deficiency.

§ 339. Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided by sections three hundred and thirlyjive, three hundred and thirtytic, three hundred and thirty-seven and three hundred and
thirty-eight, it stays all further proceedings in the court below,
upon thcjudgmenl appealed fromor upon the matter embraced

therein ,- but the court below may proceed upon any other matter
included in the action, and not qfected by the judgment cppealed from. ./Ind the court below may, in its diseretion,d1'spense with orlimit the security required by sections three Ausdred and thirty;/‘ive, three hundred and .'hirty—si:r andthree Mdred and thz'rt_z/-eight, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee or other person acting in another‘: right;
and may also limit such securify to an amount not less than
fifty thousand dollars, in the cases mentioned in sectiorls three
hundred and thirty-six, three hundred and thirty-seven, tlmt
hundred and thirtg/—eight, where it would otherwise, according
to those sections, exceed that sum.
§ 310. The undertakings prescribed by sections 334, 335,
336, and 338, may be in one instrument or several, at the
option of the appellant; and a copy, incl udjng the names
and residence of the surcties, must be served on theolversc party, with the notice of appeal unless a depositeis
made as provided in section 334 and notice thereof given.
, § 311. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no
effect, unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, that they are each worth double the amount specified therein. The respondent may, however, except to the
sullicicncy of the sureties, within ten days after the notice
of the appeal ; and unless they or other surcties justihy
before a judge of the court below ora county judge, esprescribcd by sections 195 and 196, within ten days thereafter,
the. appeal shall be regarded as if no undertaking hadbeen
given. The justification shall be upon a notice of not les
than five days.
(; 342. In the cases not provided for in sections 335, 336,
337, 338, and 339, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving
the undertaking mentioned in section 334, shall stay proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment appealed
from, except, that where it directs the sale of perishable
property, the court below may order the property to ho

sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited or invested,
to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

(3 343. The undertaking must be filed with the clerk,
with whom the judgment or order appealed from was entered.

Cuarrrnn III.

Appeal to the Supreme Court from an inferior court.

Sncrrou 844. In what cases.
345. Security must be given as upon appeal to the court of appeals.
846. Appeal, where heard.
847. Judgment on appeal, where entered and docketed.

(}344. An’ appeal may be taken to the supreme court,
from the judgment rendered by a county court, or by the
mayors’ courts, or the recorders’ courts of cities. But no
appeal shall be allowed from a judgment of a county court
in a case arising in a justice’s court, unless the party desiring to appeal shall within thirty days after notice of
the judgment, present to a judge of the supreme court the
return of the justice, or a copy thereof, with the decision
of the county court, and obtain from such judge a certi1icate that he has examined the case, and in his opinion an
appeal to the supreme court should be allowed.

(} 345. Security must be given upon such appeal, in the
same manner, and to the same extent, as upon an appeal
to the court of appeals. '

§ 346. Appeals in the supreme court shall be heard at
a general term, either in the district embracing the county
where the judgment or order appealed from was entered,
or in a county adjoining that county, except that where
the judgment or order was entered in the city and county
of New-York, the appeal shall be heard in the first distriet.’
§ 347. Judgment upon the appeal shall be entered and
doeketed with the clerk in whose oilice the judgment roll

is med. When the appeal is heard'in aoonntyotha—§l
that where the judgment roll is filed, or ilnot bane
judgment of a bounty ‘court, the judgment 
shall be certified to the clerk«with'whon1 the tolhsiltw
to be there entered and docketed.

Cmum-:3 ‘IV:

Appeals z'n'the supreme‘ court,’ and the superior 
court of common pleas of the city of New-Yorhjir
a single judge, to the general‘ term.‘

Sxc-non 848'. Appeals from circuits and special termsto sunrouhh
general term. Security on appeal.
349. Orders by a single judge, may be appealed fromlnu&
cases.
850. Orders at chambers to be entered before appeal‘.

§ 348'.‘ In‘ the ‘supreme court, the superior court 
of .N'ew— York,‘ and the court of common pleas for 'the*c'ij#'
tcounty qf.N'ew-Ybrlc, an appeal maybe taken to the glf
term from a judgment entered upon the report qfthe 
or the direction of a single judge of the some cowt,"d'Ii'
cases. Such an appeal, however, does notlstaythd ‘pnii
lugs, unless the court, or a judge thereof, so order, |&h¢i
dér may be made‘ upon such terms, as tosecurity or othatilg
as may be just, such cecuril‘y*notto‘ea:ceed’the amount 
on an appeal tathe‘ court ofappeals. In the supreta-o“%
the appeal must be heard in the same manner as -ffitvxlvu‘
appeal from an  court.

§ 349. ./in appeal ‘may ‘in like manner and ‘anithir: thi@I

time be taken ‘ from an"ordér made at a special term5_O‘%‘

single judge of the same court, or a county or a cj

judge, in any stage of the action, including proceedily Q‘

plementary to the execution, and maybe thereupon ii‘
I

in the following cases: - '.
1. When the order grants or refuses a provisional 1%or grants, or refuses or dissolves an injunction; '

2. When it grants or refuses a new trial, or saie”NX
tains or overrules a demurrer;

3,_ When it involves the merits of the action, or some part
thefeof ,1

4. Men the order in efect determines the, action, and pre-_
vents a judgment from which an appeal may be taken;

5. When the order is made upon acummary application in

iaruaction after judgment, and afects a substantial right.

§_350. The last sectionlshall include an order made out;
of ,court_ upon notice; but in. such case the order must be]
met entered with the clerk. And for the purpose of an’
an appeal, any party aifected by such order, may require

it to be entered with the clerk, and it shall be entered
accordingly.

CHAPTER V.

Appeal to the court of common pleas for the city and

county of New- York, or to a. county court, from an
inferior court.

Sermon 851. Existing laws repealed, and this chapter substituted.

852. By what courts udgments to be reviewed.

858. Appellant to ma e affidavit.

854. Copy aiildavit and notice of appeal to be served.

865. Security to stay execution.

856. Form of undertaking.

857. Execution, how stayed.

858. In case of death of ’ustice, undertaking to be illed.

859. Counter alildavits a lowed, and when and how served.

860. Return when and how made, and compelled.

861. How made it justice be out of office. '

862. Further return may be ordered.

368. If justice be dead insane or absent from State, witnesses to

beneaiamined. if in another county, return may be compe e .

354. Hearing, upon return.  appeal, if not brought on.
865. To be heard on original papers.

866. J udgment, how given.
867. Judgment roll.
868. Costs, how awarded.

869. Ordering restitution.
870. Setting oil’ costs and recovery.

87}, Th,e,costs,on appeal.

§35l, All statutes, now in force, providing for the review,of judgments in civil cases, rendered by courts of
justices of the peace, by the marine court of the city
of New-York, by. the justices’ courts in the city of NewYork, by the municipal court of the city of Brooklyn, and
by the justices’ courts of cities, and regulating the practice in relation to such review, are repealed; and hereafter,
the only mode of reviewing such judgments shall bean
appeal, as prescribed by this chapter.

{;352. When the judgment shall have been rendered

by the marine court of the city of New-York, or by a
justice’s court in that city, the appeal shall be to thecomt

of common pleas for the city and county of New-York;
and when rendered by any of the other courts enumerated
in the last section, to the county court of the county where
the judgment was rendered.

§ 353. The appellant shall, within twenty days after judgment, make or cause to be made, an afidavit, stating the 96stance of the testimony and proceeding before the court 
and the grounds upon uhich the appeal is founded. If (52
judgment is rendered upon process not personally served, at
the defendant did not appear, he shall have twenty days, afta‘
personal notice of the judgment, to make and serve the #
devil and notice of appeal provided for in this and the Id
section.

§ 354. The afidavit and a notice of appeal must, withiathl
same time, be served on the justice, and a notice of the appeal
on the respondent, personally, or by leaving it at his residence
with some person of suitable age and discretion, or in case
the respondent is not a resident of the county, in the some
manner on the attorney or agent,  any, who is a resident 9'
such city or county, who appeared for him on the trial; and
the appellant must, at the time of the service of the notice f
appeal on the justice, pay to him the costs of the action included in the judgment, together with two dollars costs of 35!
return, which shall be restored to him in case the judg-med
is reversed, and be included in the jndgment for costs, on 1'!versal.
. § 355. If the appellant desire a stay of execution of the

’ judgment, he shall give security as provided in the 1161!
section.

§ 356. The security, shall be a written undertaking, ex-I
ecuted by one. or more sufficient sureties, approved by. thei
county judge, or by the court below, to the en‘ect that if
judgment be rendered against the appellant, and execution
thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the
sureties will pay the amount unsatisfied.
§ 357. The delivery of the undertaking to the court,
below shall stay the issuing of execution; or if it have~
been issued, the service of a copy of the undertaking,
certified by the court below, upon the officer holding the
execution, shall stay further proceedings thereon. '
§ 358. Where, by reason of the death of ajustice of the peace,
or his removal from the county or any other cause, the:
undertaking on the appeal, cannot be delivered to him, it
shall be filed with the clerk of the appellate court, and
notice thereof given to the respondent, or his attorney or
agent, as provided in section three hundred and fifty-four,
it shall, thereupon, have the same eifect as if delivered to
the justice. - \
§ 359. When the affidavit and notices of appeal shall
have been served, the respondent may supply or correct

material omissions or misstatements therein, by an affidavit on his part, a copy of which shall be served on the
justice, and also on the attorney, if any, who prosecutes
the appeal, or if there be none, on the appellant, within
ten days after receiving notice of the appeal.

§ 360. The court below shall, thereupon, after ten days
and within thirty days after the service of the notice of
appeal, make a return to the appellate court of the testimony, proceedings and judgment, and file the same, with
the affidavits, in the appellate court, and may be compelled
to do so by attachment. But no justiceof the peace shall

‘be bound to make a return, unless the fee prescribed by

the last section of this chapter be paid on service of

, the notice of appeal.

§36l. 'When a' justice of the peace, by whom ajudgment appealed from was rendered, shall have gone out of
oiiice, before a return ' is ordered, he shall, neverthelem,
make a return, in the same manner, and with the like effect,
as if he were still in office.
§ 362. If the return be defective, the appellate court
-may direct a further or amended return, as often as may
be necessary, and may compel a compliance with its order,
by attachment.
, § 363. If a justice ‘of the peace, whose judgment‘ is
appealed from, shall die, become insane,‘or remove ‘from
.the state, the appellate court may examine witnesses, on
oath, to the facts and circumstances of the trial or judgment, and determine the appeal, as if the facts had been
returned by the justice. If he shall have removed“ to
another county within the state, the hppellate court may
Icompel him to make the return, as if ‘he were still within
the county where the judgment was rendered.

§ 364. If a return be made, the appeal may be brought
to a hearing at a general term of the appellate court, upon

,a notice by either party, of not less than eight days. It
shall be placed upon the calendar and continue thereon
Without further notice, until finally disposed of; but if
neither party bring it to a hearing before the end of the
second term, the court shall’ dismiss the appeal, unless it
continue the same, by special ‘order, for cause shown.

6; 365. The appeal shall be heard on the original papers ; and no copy thereof need be furnished for the use
of the court.

(3 366. Upon the hearing of the appeal, the appellate court
'shall give judgment according to the justice of the case, without regard to technical errors and defects which do not
qfect the merits. In giving judgment, the court may we.
or reverse the judgment of the court below, -in whole or in part,
and as to any or all the parties, and fcr errors of law or
fact. If the appeal is founded on an error in fact in the proceedings, not qJ'ecting~~th_e merits of the action, and not within
the knowledge of the justice, the courtmay determine the alleged error in fact on qfidavits, and may in its discr,etion inquire
into and determine the same upon examinationof the witnesses.

- If the defendant failed to appear before the justice, and it is

shown by the afidavits served, or otherwise, that manifest injustice has been done, and the defendant satisfalttorily excuses
his default, the court. may in its. discretion set aside or suspend
judgment, and order a new trial before the some or any other
justice, at such time and place, and on such terms as the court
may deem proper. The parties must appear before the justice
according to the order of the court, and the same proceedings
must thereupon be had in the action, as on the return of a sum.,mom: personally served.

§ 367. To every judgment upon an appeal there shall
be annexed the atiidavits or return on which it was heard,

which shall be filed with the clerk of the court, and shall
constitute the judgment roll.

§ 368. If the judgment be affirmed, costs shall be awarded to the respondent. If it be reversed,’ costs shall be

awarded to the appellant. If it be affirmed in part, the
costs, or such part as to the court shall seem just, may be

awarded to either party.

(3369. If the judgment below, or any part thereof, be
collected, and the judgment be afterwards reversed, the
appellate court shall order the amount collected to be
restored with interest from the time of collection. The
order may be obtained upon proof of the facts made at or
after the hearing, upon a previous notice of six days.

§ 370. If, upon an appeal,arecoverybehadby one party,
and costs be awarded to the other, the appellate court
shall set off the one against the other, and render judg_
ment for the balance’.

§37 1. The following fees and costs, and no other except

fees of officers and disbursements, shall be allowed an appeals:
To the appellant on reversal , fi_fteen dollars.

To the respondent on ajirmance, twelve dollars.

To a justice of the peace, for his return, two dollars.

If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part,nl
ajirmed as to the residue, the amount of costs alloim in
either party, shall be such sum as the appellate coartuy

award, not exceeding ten dollars.
If the appeal be dismissed for want of prosecution, as pnvided by section three hundred and siscty-four, no cost: M1

be allowed to either party.

TITLE XII.

Of the miscellaneous. proceedings, in civil actions, all
general provisions.

Cnsrrnn I. Submitting a controversy, without action.
II. Proceedings aiainst joint debtors, heirs, legato,-es, (M13,
and tenants olding under a judgment demo,-_
III. Confession of ’udgment without action.
IV. Offers of the cfendant, to compromise the whole or a put
of the action.

V. Admission or inspection of writings.

VI. Examination of parties.

VII. Examination of witnesses.
VIII. Motions and orders.

IX. Entitling affidavits.
X. Computation of time.

XI. Notices, and tiling and service of papen,

XII. Duties of sheriffs and coroners.

XIII. Accountability of guardians.
. XIV. Powers of referees.
XV. Miscellaneous provisions.

Cmurrnn I.

Submitting a controversy without action,

Sacnon 372. Controversy how submitted without action.
373. Judgment on, as in other cases, but without costs.
874. Judgment may be enforced, or appealed from, as inanse

tion.

(; 372. Parties to a question in difference, which might
be the subject of a civil action, may, without action.

agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the

controversy depends, and present a submission of the same,
to any court which would have jurisdiction, if an action
had been brought. But it must appear by aiiidavit, that

the controversy is real, and the proceeding in good faith,
to determine the rights of the parties. The court shall

thereupon hear and determine the case, at a general term
and render judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.

§ 373. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book,‘
as in other cases, but without costs, for any proceeding;

' prior to notice of trial. The ease, the ' submission, and a.

copy of the judgment shall constitute the judgment roll.

§ 374. The judgment may be enforced in the same;
manner, as if it had been rendered in an action and shallj
be subject to appeal in like manner. 1

tlnsrrnn II.

Proceedings against joint debtors, heirs, dwisees, legatees
and tenants holding under a judgment debtor. SIOTION 375. Parties not summoned in action on joint contrg, may be
summoned after Judgment.

876. If judgment debtor ie , his representatives may be summoned.
377. Form of summons.

378. To be accompanied by affidavit of amount due.

379. Party summoned may answer and defend. ,

880. Subsequent pleadings and proceedings same as in an action.
381. Answer and reply to be ventled as in an action.

§ 375. When a judgment shall be recovered against one
or more of several persons, jointly indebted upon a contract, by proceeding as provided in section 136, thosewho
were not originally summoned to answer the complaint,
may be summoned to show cause why they should not be
bound by the judgment, in the same manner as if they had
been originally summoned.

{} 376. In case of the death of a judgment debtor after
judgment, the heirs, devisees, or legatees of the judgment
debtor or the tenants of real property, owned‘ by him and
aifected by the judgment, may after the expiration of three
years from the time of granting letters testamentary, or of
administration upon the estate of the testator or intestate,
be summoned to show cause, why the judgment should

not be enforced, against the estate of the judgment debtor
in their hands respectively, and the personal representatives of a deceased judgment debtor, may be so sumnmd,
at any time within one year—after=their-appointment.

§ 377. The summons provided in the last two setlill,
shall be subscribed -by the judgment creditor, his qtsentatives or attorney ;' shall describe’ the jndgmm,d
require the person summoned, to show cause, &
twenty days after the service of the summons; umiiill
be served in like manner as theoriginal summons.

{} 878. The summons ‘shall be accompanied byuf
tvit of the person subscribing it, that the judgment Kw
been satisiied, to his knowledge or information andli,
and shall specify the amount due thereon.

_ §379. Upon such summons, the partyrsummonaém
answer within the time specified therein, « deny it
judgment, or setting up any defense. which; mahhl
arisen subsequently; and in addition thereto, if he hp
ceeded against according to section 37 5, he may m&’l!
same defense, which he might have originally 1&3
the action except the statute of limitations.

§380. The party issuing the summons, may til:

reply to the answer, and the party summoned nnyi

to the reply and the issues may be tried and jam
may be given, in the same manner as in an actioI§
enforced by execution,_or. the application of thcpff

charged to the payment of the judgment, may hang!»
led by attachment, if necessary.

§38l. The answer and. reply shall be verifiedéhil
like cases and manner, and be subject to the sam$ly
as the answer and reply in an action.

‘ Conféssion of Judgment, without Action.
Sncuox,.'382. Jniliggntgznt may he confessed for debt due or contingent lia883. Statement in writing, and form thereof.
' 384. ' Filing same, and entering judgment.

§ 382. ‘A judgment by’ confession may be entered, with- J

' ‘out action,'either for money’ due or to become due, or to;

‘secure ‘anyperson against contingent liability on behalf f
of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed ‘by’
this chapter. _

§ 383. A statement in writing must be made, signed by:
the defendant-and verified-by his oath, to the following;
efect:

1. It mnststate the amount for which-judgment may
be entered, and authorize the entry of judgment therefore.

2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must

‘A state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and must

‘ show that thesum confessed therefore is justly due, or to
becomedne.

3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff
against a contingent liability, it‘ must state concisely the

‘facts constituting -the liability, and must. show that the
sum confessed therefore does not exceedthe same.

§‘384. The statement may be filed with a county clerk or
with a clerk of the superior court of the city of JV'ew- York,
who shall endorse upon it and enter in the judgment book a‘
judgment of the supreme or said superior court, for the amount
confessed with jive dollars costs, together with disbursements.
The statement and qjidauit with the judgment endorsed, shall
(henceforth become the judgment roll. Executions may be
issued and enforced thereon in the same manneras upon judgments in other cases in such courts. When the debt for which

the judgment is recovered is not all due or is payable in
instalments, and the instalments are not all due, the execution

may issue upon such judgment for the collection of such instalments as hdve become due, and shall be an the usual form,
but shall have endorsed thereon by the attorney or personisnr
ing the same, a direction to the sherif to collect the amount
due on such judgment with interest and costs, which amount
shall be stated with interest thereon and the costs of said judgment. Notwithstandirig the issue and collection of such arecution, the judgment shall remain as security for the instalments thereafter to become due ; and whenever any further instalments become due, execution may in like manner be issued
for the collection and enforcement of the same.

CHAPTER IV.

Ofers of the defendant to compromise the whole or a part
of the action.

Sxcnox 386. Defendant may serve oiibr to compromise and the proceedings thereon.

886. Defendant may ofer to liquidate damages conditionally.
387. Effect of acceptance or refusal of offer. § 385. The defendant may at any time before the trial or

B verdict, serve upon the plaintiff an ofer in writing to allow
. judgment to be taken against him, for the sum or property, or
to the efect therein specified with costs. If the plaintifff ac~

cept the qfer, and give notice thereof in writing within ten

days, he may file the summons, complaint and ofer, with an

alfidavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon

enter judgment accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be

not given, the Wei‘ is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be
given in evidence, and  theplaintifffail to obtain a morefavorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay the

defendant’s costs, from the time of the qfer.
§386. In an action arising on contract, the defendant

may, with his answer, serve upon the plaintifff an ode: in
writing, that if he fail in his defense, the damages be assessed at a specified sum 5 and if the plaintiff signify his
acceptance thereof in writing, with or before the notice of
trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the damages shall
be assessed accordingly. 0

§ 387. If the plaintifff no not accept the offer, he shall
prove his damages, as if it had not been made, and shall
not be permitted to give it in evidence. And if the damages assessed in his favor shall not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his expenses, incurred in consequence of any necessary preparation
or defense in respect to the question of damages. Such
expense shall be ascertained at the trial.

Cmrran V.

Admission or inspection of writings.

Station 388. A party may be required to admit a paper to be genuine, or
pay expense of proving it. Inspection and copy of books,
papers and documents, how obtained. _

§ 388. Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his
attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper, material
to the action, and request an admission in writing of its
genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to
give the admission, within four days after the request,
andif the party exhibiting the paper be afterwards put to
expense in order to prove its genuineness, and the same
be finally proved or admitted on the trial, such expense
to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party
refusing the admission; unless it appear to the satisfaction
of the court that there were good reasons for the refusal.
The court before which an action is pending, or a judge
or justice thereof, may in their discretion, and upon due
notice, order either party to give -to the other, within a
specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to
take a copy of any books, papers and documents in his
possession, or.under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein.
If compliance with the orderbe refused, the court, on motlon, may exclude the paper from being given in evidence,
or punish the party refusing, or both.

CHARTER VI.

Examination of parties.

Sxonon 389. Actions for discovery, abolished.

890. A pauriy may examine his adversary as a wines, oak
tr’ ,

891. Such examination also allowed before trial. Procaesiim
therefore.

392. Party how compelled to attend.

893. Testimony of party may. be rebutted.

394. Etfect of refusal to testify.

395. Testimony by a party not responsive to the inquiries, maybe

rebutted by the oath of the party calling him.

896. Persons for whom action is brought or defended, my be
' examined.

897. Examinations of co-plaintifff or co-defendant.

§ 389. No action to obtain discovery under oath, insid
of the prosecution «or defense of another action, shall be
allowed, nor shall -any examination of a party behsd,on
behalf of the adverse party, except in the manner prescribed by this chapter. ‘
§ 390. A party to an action may be examined as a sitness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of any oneof
‘several adverse parties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules
of examination, as any other. witness to testify, eithent
the trial, or conditionally, or upon commission.
§39l. The examination, instead‘ of being had at the
.trial as provided in the last, section, may he had, at any
time before thetrial, at the option of the party claiming
‘it, before a judge of the court or a county. judge, on:
previous notice to the partyto be examined ,and any other
adverse party, of at least five days, unless for good cause
shown, the judge order otherwise. But the party to be
examined, shall not be compelledto attend in any other
county than that of his residence, or where he may be
served w-ith'a summons for his attendance.
6; 392. The party to be examined, as in the last section
provided, may be compelled to attend, in the same manner as a witness who is to be examined conditionally;

V

and the examination shall be taken and filed by the judge
in like manner, and may. be regdby :either party on the
trial.

I} 393. The examination of the party thus taken, may:
be rebutted by adverse testimony: %

{;394. If a party refuse to attend and testify as in the,
last four sections provided,'he may be- punished as for a:
contempt, and his complaint, answer, or reply, may «be
stricken out.

{} 395. A party examined by an adverse party, asin this
chapter provided, may be examined on‘-his own behalf, in
respect to any -matter pertinent to theissue. But iii he testify to any new matter, not responsive-to the inquiries put
to him bythe adverse party, or necessary to explain» or
qualify~his answers thereto, or discharge when his answers
would charge himself, sueh adverse-party may oifer himself, as a witness on his own beha1f,in.respeot to such new
matter, and shall be so received.

§396'. A person for whose immediate benefit the actionis -prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action,
may be examined as a witness, in the same manner, and
subject to the same rules of examination, as if he were
named as a party.

§ 397. .19 party may be-examined on behalf of his captaintif or a co-defendant as to any matter in which he is not jointly interested or liable with such co—plaintiff or co-defendant,
and as to which a separate and not joint verdict or judgment
shall be rendered. ./9nd he may be compelled to attend ‘in the
same manner as at the instance of an adverse party, but the
ezmnination thus taken shall not be used in behalfqf the party
examined, unless he is- examinedat the instance qf-the adverse

PW?CnAr'us:nVII.

Examination of witnesses.

Srerron 398. No witness to be excluded by reason of interest.
8_99. To whom last section inapplicable.

§ 398. No person oifered as a witness, shall be excluded

by reason of his interest in the event of the action.
§399. The last section shall not apply to a party to the

action, nor to any person for whose immediate benefit it is
prosecuted or defended. When an  of a thing in
action or contract is examined as a witness, on behalf of any
person deriving title through or from him, the adverse party
may ofer himself as a witness to the same matter in his own
behalf, and shall be soreceived. But such assignor shall not
be admitted to be examined in behalf of any person deriving
title through or from him against an ass-ignee or an executor
or administrator, unless the other party to such contract or
thing in action whom the defendant or plaintiff represents is
living, and his testimony can be procured for such examination,
nor unlessat least ten day’s notice of such intended «rumination of the assignor, specifying the points upon which he is
intended to be examined shall be givenin writing to the adverse
party.
CHAPTER VIII.

Motions and orders.

Sterner 400. Definition of an order.
401. Definition of a motion. Motions how and where mode.
402. Wlhen inotiee is necessary, it must be eight days before
ear ng. _

408. In actions in supreme court, county judge may act at chambers. His orders, how reviewed. “ ’

404. In absence of judge at chambers, motion may be transferred
by him to another judge.

405. Enlarging time for proceedings in an action.

§ 400. Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.

§-101. An application for an order is a motion.

Motions may be made in the first judicial district to a}
judge or justice out of court, except for a new trial on the}
merits. _

Motions must be made within the district in which the
action is triable, or in a county adjoining that in which it
is triable, except that where the action is triable in the
first judicial district, the motion must be made therein.
Orders made out of court, without notice, may be made
by any judge of the court, in any part of the state; and
they may also be made by a county judge of the county
where the action is triable, except to stay proceedings after
a verdict.

No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than
twenty days shall be granted by a judge out of court,
except upon previous notice to the adverse party.

§ 402. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it must
be served eight days before the time appointed for the
hearing; but the court or judge may, by an order to show
cause, prescribe a shorter time.

(} 403. In an action in -the supreme court, a county
judge, in addition to the powers conferred upon him by
this act, may exercise, within his county, the powers of a‘
judge of the supreme court at chambers, according to the
existing practice, except as otherwise provided in this act.
And in all cases where an order is made by a county judge,

it may be reviewed in the same manner as if it had been
made by a judge of the supreme. court.

§404. When notice of a motion is given, or an order

to show cause is returnable, before a judge out of court, and
at the time fixed for the motion, he is absent, or unable to

hear it, the same may be transferred, by his order, to some

other judge, before whom the motion might originally have
been made.

§405. The time within which any proceeding in an
action must be had, after its commencement, except the

time within which an appeal must be taken, may be enlarged, upon an affidavit showing grounds therefore, by:
judge of the court, or if the action be in the supreme
court, by a county judge. The affidavit, or a copy thereof,
must be'served with a copy of the order, or the order may
be disregarded. '
CHAPTER IX.

Entitling qidavits.
Szcrrox 406. Affidavits defectively entitled valid.

§-I06. It shall not be necessary to entitle an ailidarit
in the action; but an affidavit‘ made without a title, or
with a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual, for
every purpose, as if it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to the action or proceeding in which it is made.

Cnsrrrzn X.

Computation of time.
SICTION 407. Time, how computed.
r {}407. The time within which an act is to be done, as

herein provided, shall be computed, by excluding the firs
day and including the last. If the last day be Sunday,it

shall be excluded.

Cmrrx-:3 XI.

Notices, and jiling and service of papers.
Sterner: 408.
' 409

410.
411.
412. Double time when servedby mail. .

413. Eight days notice of motion, &c., before court or judge‘!’53

ersonally served.

414. W ere papers need not be served on defendant.

415. Service of papers where party resides out of the State.

416. Summons and pleadings to be filed within ten days aiier

service.
417. Service, where party appears by attorney.
418. This chapter not to apply to summons or process, or POP‘
pers to bring party into contempt.

§408. Notices shall be in writing; and notices and
,other papers may be served on the party or attorney, in

the manner prescribed in the next three sections, when
not otherwise provided by this act.

g Notices and other papers, how served on party or attorneyWhen and how served by mail.

§ 409. The service may be personal, or by delivery to

the party or attorney on whom the service is required to’

be made, or it may be as follows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his office, by leaving the paper with his clerk
therein, or with a person having charge thereof; or when
there is no person in the office, by leaving it, between the
hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a
conspicuous place in the office, or if it be not open, so as
to admit of such service, then by leaving it at the _attorney’s residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion. '

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper
at his residence, between the hours of six in the morning
and nine in the evening, with some person of suitable age
and discretion.

§ 410. Service by mail may be made, where the person
making the service,and the person on whom it is to be
made reside in different places, between which °there is a
regular communication by mail.

§4ll. In case of service by mail, the paper must be
deposited in the post oihce, addressed to the person on
whom it is to be served, at his place of residence, and the

postage paid.

{} 412. Where the scrviceis by mail, it shall be double.

the time required in cases of personal service.
(3 413. Notice of a motion, or other proceeding, before a

court or judge, when personally served, shall be given at_

least eight days before the time appointed therefore.

§_ 414. Where a defendant shall not have demurred or‘:
answered, service of notice or papers, in the ordinary‘,
proceedings in an action, need not be made upon him,

unless he be imprisoned for want of bail, but shall be

made upon him or his attorney, if notice of appearance in
the action has been given.

§ 415. Where a plaintiff or a defendant who has demurred or answered, or gives notice of appearance, resides
out of the state, and has no attorney in the action, the
service may be made by mail, if his residence be known,
if not known, on the clerk for the party. ‘

§ 416. The summons, and the several pleadings in an
action, shall be filed with the clerk within ten days alter
the service thereof, respectively, or the adverse party, on
proof of the omission, shall be entitled, without notice, to
an order from a judge that the same be filed within a time
to be specified in the order, or be deemedabandoned.

§ 417. Where a party shall have an attorney in the
action, the service of papers shall be made upon the attorney, instead of the party.

(3 418. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
the service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to bring a party into contempt.

CHAPTER XII.

Duties of shemfs and coroners.

880110! 419. Duty of sheriii‘ and coroner in serving or executing process,
and how enforced.

§419. Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheriff may
be required to serve or execute any summons, order, or
judgment, or to do any other act, he shall be bound to do
so, in like manner as upon process issued to him, and
shall be equally liable in all respects for neglect of duty;
and if the sheriff be a party, the coroner shall be bound
to perform the service, as he is now bound to execute
process, where the sheriff is a party; and all the previsions of this act relating to sheriffs shall apply to eoroners
when the sherif is a party.

I

CHAPTER XIII.

_ .&ccountability of guardians.

Simon 4%. Guardian not to receive property until security given.

§420. N o guardian appointed for an infant, shall beg
permitted to receive property of the infant, until he shallf,‘
have given suiiicient security, approved by a judge of the:
court or a county judge, to account for and apply the
same, under the direction of the court.

CHAPTER XIV.

Powers qf referees.

Sncrxon 421. Referees authorized to administer oaths and to exercise
powers now vested in referees by law.

§421. Every referee, appointed ‘pursuant to this act,,f
shall have power to administer oaths, in any proceeding!
before him, and shall have generally the powers now:

vested in a referee by law.

Cnsrrnn XV.

.Miscella~neaus provisions.

Station 422. Papers lost or withheld, how supplied.
428. Where undertakings to be filed.
424. Judgment agent: and warrant of attorney, excnted before
July 1 1 .
426. Time for publication of notices, how computed.
426. Laws of other states and governments, how proved.

§ 422. If an original pleading or paper be lost or with-1
held by any person, the court may authorize a copy thereof 1
to be filed and used instead of the original. . I

§-423. The various undertakings required to be given‘
by this act, must be filed with the clerk of the court, un-7
less the court expressly provides fora diferent disposition
thereof, except that the undertakings provided for by the
chapter on the claim and delivery of personal property,
shall after the justification of the sureties, be delivered by
the sheriff to the parties respectively, ‘for whose benefit
they are taken.

£3424. Upon any bond and warrant of attorney executed
“nd delivered before the first day of July, 1848, judgment

r
I

may be entered in the manner provided by sections 382,
383 and 384, upon the plaintifffs tiling such bond and warrant of attorney, and a statement signed and verified by
himself, in the form prescribed by section 382. .

§425. The time for publication of legal notices shall
be computed so as to exclude the first day of publication,
and include the day on which the act or event, of which
notice is given, is to happen, or which completes the full
period required for publication.

§426. Printed copies in volumes, of statutes, code, or
other written law, enacted by any other state, or territory,
or foreign government, purporting or proved to have been
published by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law in the
courts and judicial tribunals of such state, territory, or
government, shall be admitted by the courts and officers
of this state, on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of
such laws. The unwritten, or common law of any other
state, or territory, or foreign government, may be proved
asfacts by parol evidence ; and the books of reports of
cases adjudged in their courts, may also be admitted as
presumptive evidence of such law.

,TITLE XIII.

Actions in particular cases.

Oaarraa I. Actions against foreign corporations.
' II. Actions in place of scire facias, quo wan-auto, and of informations in the nature of quo warranto.
III. Actions for the partition of real property.
IV. Actions to determine conflicting claims to real property. I34
for waste and nuisance.
Y. General provisions relating to actions concerning real propaty. ,
Cnurrnu I.

Actions against Foreign Corporations.
Sacrxox 427. Where and by whom brought.

'§ 427. An action against a corporation, created by, 0!
under the laws of . any other state, government or country.

mayhbe brought in the supreme court, the superior court

-of theicity of N ew-York, or the court of commonpleas for
the city and county of N ew-York, in the following cases :'

1". By a resident of this state, for any cause of action.

2. By a plaintifff not a resident of this state, when the
cause of action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action shall be situated within this state.

CHAPTER II.

Actions in place of scire facias, quo warranto, and Q)"
informations in -the nature qf quo warranto.

Samoa 428. Scire facias, and quo warranto abolished and this chapter
substituted.

429. Action may be brought by attorney-general to vacate a charter, by direction of legislature.
480. Action to annul a corporation, when and how brought by attorney-general, by leave of supreme court.
431. Leave, how obtained.

432. Action upon information or complaint, of course.
433. Action, when and how brought to vacate letters patent.
484. Relator, when to be joined as plaintifff.

435. Cogplaint and arrest of defendant, in action for usurping an
0 cc.

486. Judgment in such action.

437. Assumption of oiilce, &c., by relator, when judgment is in
his favor.

488. Proceedings against defendant, on refusal to deliver books or

pets.
489. Dgamages, how recovered.

440. Onlfkazction against several persons claiming office or franc .
441. Penalty for usurping oiiice or franchise, how awarded.
442. Judgment of forfeiture against a corporation.

448. Costs against corporation or persons claiming to be such, how
collected.

444. Restraining corporation and appointment of receiver.
445. Copy ofjudgment roll against corporation, where to be med.

446. Entry of judgment relating to letters patent in records of
commissioners of land office.

447. Actions for forfeiture ‘of property to the people.
§-128. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto,

and proceedings by information in the nature of quo war-A
1-anto,are abolished, and the remedies, heretofore obtain-A
able in those forms, may be obtained by civil actions, un-A

der the provisions of this chapter. But any proceeding
heretofore commenced, orjudgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not be affected by such abolition.

(3429. An action may be brought by the attorney-genu~
'al, in the name of the people of this state, whenever the
legislature shall so direct, against a corporation, for die
Vpurpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation,

or an act renewing its corporate existence, on the ground,
that such act or renewal was procured, upon some frandulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, by the
persons incorporated, or by some of them, or with their
knowledge and consent.(}43(). An action may be brought by the attorney general, in the name of the people of this state, on leave granted
,by the supreme court, or ajudge thereof, for the purpose
.of vacating the charter or annulling the existence of a corporation, other than municipal, whenever such corporation
shall,

1. Ofend against any of the provisions of theactoraets
creating, altering or renewing such corporation; or,

2. Violate the provisions of any law, by which such corporatlon shall have forfeited its charter, by abuse of its
powers; or

3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or
franchises, by failure to exercise its powers; or

4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act,
which amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises; or

5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege,
not conferred upon it by law. , .- And it shall be the duty of the attorney general, whenever he shall have reason to believe, that any of these acts
or ornimions can be established by proof, to apply for-leave,
and upon leave granted, to bring the action in every case
of public interest, and also in every other case in which
satisfactory security shall be given, to indemnify the people of thisstate,againstthecostsandexpenaestoheinenr~
red thereby.

(3431. Leave to bring the action may be granted, upon}
the application of the,attorney general ; and the court or “
judge may, at discretion, direct notice of such application
to be given to the corporation or its officers, previous to
granting such leave, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto.

§ 432. An action may be brought by the attorney gen-1
aral in the name of the people of this state, upon his own]
information, or upon the complaint of any private party,‘

against the parties offending in the following cases:
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unhwfully hold or exercise, any public ouice, civil or military, or any franchise within this state, or any office in a

corporation created by the authority of this state; or
2. When any public oilicer, civil or military, shall have

done or suffered an act which, by the provisions of law,
shall make a forfeiture of his office; or
3. When any association, or number of persons, shall

act within this state as a corporation, without being duly
incorporated.

§ 433. An action may be brought by the attorney general, in the name of the people of this state, for the purpose
of vacating or annulling letters patent, granted by the
people of this state, in the following cases:

1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent were obtained by means of some fraudulent
suggestion or concealment of a material fact, made by a

person to whom the same were issued or made, or with his
consent or knowledge; or

2. When he shall have reason to believe, that such
letters patent were issued through mistake, or in ignorance
of a material fact; or

3. When he shall have reason to believe, that the patentee, or those claiming under him, have done or omitted
an act, in violation of the terms and conditions on which

the letters patent were granted, or have, by any other
means, forfeited the interest acquired under the same.

§ 434. When an action shall be brought by the attorney
general, by virtue of this chapter, on the relation urinformation of a person having an interest in the question,
the name of such person shall be joined with the people,
as plaintiff.

§ 435. Whenever such action shall be brought against.
a person for usurping an office, the attorney general,in
addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also
set forth in the complaint, the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, with a statement of his right
thereto, and in such case, upon proof by aiiidavit, that the
defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to
the office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted by a judge of the supreme court, for
the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail, and
thereupon he shall be arrested and held to bail, inthe
manner, and with the same effect, and subject to the same
rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions, where the
the defendant is subject to arrest. '

§ 436. In every such case, judgment shall be rendered
upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the right
of the party, so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the
right of the defendant, as justice shall require.

§437. If the judgment be rendered upon the rightef
the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in
favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the
oath of office and executing such official bond as may be
required by law, to take upon himself the execution of
the office, and it shall be hislduty, immediately thereaher,
to demand of the defendant in the action, all the boob
and papers, in his custody or within his power, belonging
to the office, from which he shall have been excluded‘

3

§ 438. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver.

over such books or papers, pursuant to the demand, he.
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the same

proceedings shall be had, and with the same effect, to
compel delivery of such books and papers, as are prescribed in article five, title six, chapter six, of the first part of
the Revised Statutes.

§439. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the
person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person,“
he may recover, by action, the damages which he shall

have sustained, by reason of the usurpation by the defendant of the office, from which such defendant has been excluded. ,

§ 440. Where several persons claim to be entitled to
the same oiiice or franchise, one action may be brought}
against all such persons, in order to try their respective
rights to such oiiice or franchise.

§4-11 . When a defendant, whether a. natural person or
a corporation, against whom such action shall have been
brought, shall be adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding
into, or unlawfully holding or exercising any office, franchise or privilege, judgment shall be rendered, that ‘such
defendant be excluded from such oiiicc, franchise or privilege, and also that the plaintifff recover costs against such
defendant. The court may also, in its discretion, fine,
such defendant a sum not exceeding two thousand dollars,

which fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury
of the state.

(3442. If it shall be adjudged, that a corporation, against
which an action shall have been brought, pursuant to this
chapter, has by neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its
corporate rights, privileges and franchises, judgment shall
be rendered, that the corporation be excluded from such

corporate rights, privileges and franchises, and that the
corporation be dissolved.

§443. If judgment be rendered in such action, agaimt

a corporation or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs therein to be collected,
by execution against the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment or process against the directors or
other officers of such corporation.

{}444. When such judgment shall be rendered against a
corporation, the court shall have the same power to re
strain the corporation,'to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take an account, and make distribution thereof
among its creditors, as are given in article three, title four,
chapter eight, of the third part of the Revised Statutes;
and it shall be the duty of the attorney-general, immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to institute
proceedings for that purpose. _

§445. Upon the rendition of such judgment against a

icorporation, or for the vacating or annulling of letters

patent, it shall be the duty of the attorney-general, to
cause a copy of the judgment‘ roll to be forthwith filed in

the office of the secretary of state.
§-446. Such secretary shall thereupon, if the record relates to letters patent, make an entry in the recordsof the

commissioners of the land oiiice,of the substance and elect
of such judgment, and of the time when the record thereof
was docketed, and the real property granted by such letters patent, may thereafter be disposed of by such commissioners, in the same manner as if such letters patent

had never been issued.

§447. Whenever by the provisions of law, any property, real orlpersonal, shall be forfeited to the people of this

state, or to any omccr for their use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper odicer, in the supreme court.

Cuurru III.

Action for the partition of real property.

800110: 448. Prpfisions of Rcvbed Statutes, applicable to actions in partion.

(}448. The provisions of the Revised Statutes relating:
to the partition of lands, tenements and hereditaments,§
held or possessed by joint tenants or tenants in common}
shall apply to actions for such partition brought under‘
this act, so far as the same can be so applied to the substance and subject matter of ‘the action, without regard to
its form.

CHAPTER IV.

Actions to determine conflicting claims to real property,
and for waste and nuisance.

Samoa 449. Atitggns to determine claims to real property, how pt-osecu«
450. Action of waste abolished. Waste how remediable.
451. Provisions of Revised Statutes applicable toactions for waste
uuder this act.
452. When judgment of forfeiture and eviction to be given.
458. Writ of nuisance abolished.
454. Remedy for injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuisauce.

{) 449. Proceedings to compel the determination of
claims to real property, pursuant to the provisions of the
Revised Statutes, may be prosecuted by action under this
act, without regard to the forms of the proceedings as they
are prescribed by those statutes.

§450. The action of waste is abolished, but any proceeding heretofore commenced, or judgment rendered, or
right acquired, shall not be affected thereby. Wrongs
heretofore remediable by action of waste, are subjects of
action as other wrongs, in which action there may be
judgment for damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party
onending, and eviction from the premises.

§461. The provisions of the Revised Statutes relating
to the action of waste shall apply to an action for waste,
brought under this act, without regard to the form of the
action, so far as the same can be so applied.

§ 452. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only
be given, in favor of the person entitled to the reversion,
'against the tenant in possession, when the injury to the
estate in reversion shall be adjudged in the action to be
equal to the value of the tenant’s estate, or unexpired
term, or to have been done in malice. ‘
§ 453. The writ of nuisance is abolished; but any pmceeding heretofore commenced, or any judgment rendered,
or right acquired, shall not be affected thereby.
§454. Injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuillsance, are subjects of action, as other injuries, and in such
action there may be judgment for damages, or for the removal of the nuisance, or both.

CHAPTER V.

General - provisions relating to actions concerning real

property.
Sscnon 455. Provisions of Revised Statutes applicable thereto.

§ 455. The general provisions of the Revised Statutes
relating to actions concerning real property, shall apply
to actions brought under this act, according to the subject matter of the action, and without regard to its form.

TITLE XIV.

Provisions relating to existing suits.

SECTION 456. . Appeal from order at a special term, on summary application, after judgment.
457. Writ of error in all cases abolished.- A I substituted.
458. Exlc-c111téi4<‘)§1 when issuable on a judgment ocketed before July
, .
459. Proceeding by re-hearing abrogated.
460. Appeals from final decrees, by a single judge, in supreme
<t:)c(>3urti,{ insuits in equity pending on July 1, 18-17, when to
ta en.

461. Issues of fact in county court or common pleas before July
1, 1848, how tried.

{)456. The appeal, mentioned in section 9, of the act
to facilitate the determination of existing suits in the
courts of this state, may also be taken, from an order,
made at a special term, on a summary application in an

action after judgment, when such order involves the merits of the application, or some part thereof.

(} 457. No writ of error shall be hereafter issued, in any;
case whatever. Wherever a right now exists to have a}
review of a judgment rendered, or order or decree made
before the first day of July, 1848, such review can only bel
had upon an appeal taken in the manner provided by this
act, and all appeals heretofore taken from such judgments,
orders, or decrees under the provisions of the code of
procedure, which are still pending in an appellate court,
and not dismissed, shall be valid and efectual. But this
section shall not extend the right of review, to any case
or question to which it does not ‘now extend, nor the time
for appealing, nor shall it apply to a case where a writ of
error has been already issued. .

{}458. An execution may be issued without leave of V.
the court upon a judgment docketed before the first day:
of July, 1848, or now or hereafter to be rendered in an‘?
action pending on that day, at any time within five years
after the rendering of the judgment.

{} 459. The provisions of this act apply to future proceed-i

ings in actions or suits heretofore commenced and now pending
as follows :
1. If there have been no pleading therein, to the pleadings

and all subsequent proceedings: _

2. When there is an issue of law or of fact, or any other
question of fact to be tried, to the trial and all subsequent
proceedings: .

3. .z9fter a judgment or order, to the proceedings to enforce, vacate, modify or reverse it, including the costs of an
appeal. Whenever the judges of the supreme court in any
district find that the court, at any term or circuit, has not
been, or will not be able to dispose of all the cases upon the
calendar, they may request the governor to assign other judges, and,  necessary, appoint extraordinary terms and circuits
for the purpose of disposing qf such cases. The governor

may thereupon make such assignment, and the judges assigned
must hold the courts accordingly.

§ 460. An appeal may be taken from any final decree entered
upon the direction of a single judge, in any suit in equity
pending in the supreme court, on the 1st day of July, cue
thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, at any time Mon
fthe jirst day of JV‘ovember, one thousand eight hundred and
jifty-one. But this section shall not apply to cases wheres
rehearing has already been had or ordered, or to the case qt‘
a decree entered before the passage of this act, and to review
which no attempt in’ good faith has been, or shall have been
made within thirty days after notice of the entry of mo‘:
decree. Such appeal shall be taken in the manner provided
in sections three hundred and twenty-seven and three hundred
and forty-eight.
§ 461. An issue of fact joinedin a county eourt,oreourt
of common pleas, before the first day of July, one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight, or then pending in
’that court on :appeal, shall be tried by a jury, unless the
parties otherwise agree.

TITLE XV.

General provisions.

Slcnou 462. Detlnition of “ real property.”

463. Definition of “ personal property."

464. Definition of “ property.”

465. Definition of “ district.”

466. Definition of.“ clerk.”

467. Rule of strict construction of statutes inapplicable to &

act.

468. Statutory provisions inconsistent with this act .
469. Rules and practice inconsistent with this act abrogated.
470. Judges of supreme court to make general rules.

471. This _act not to affect certain proceedings and statutory F9‘

visions.

472. Certain parts of revised and other statutes not repealed.
473. This act, when to take effect.

§ 462. The words “ real property,” as used in this I6
are coextensive with lands, tenements and hereditt
ments.

§ 463. The words “personal property,” as used in this
act, include money, goods, chattels, things in action, and
evidences of debt.

{; 464. The word “ property,” as used in this act, includes property real and personal. '

§465. The word “district,” as used in this act, signi-;

fies judicial district, except when otherwise specified.

§ 466. The word “clerk,” as used in this act, signifies
the clerk of the court where the action is pending, and in
the supreme court, the clerk_ of the county mentioned in
the title of the complaint, or in another county to which
the court may have changed the place of trial, unless
otherwise specified.

(1 467. The rule of common law, that statutes in dero-I
gation of that law are to be strictly construed, has no ap- j

plication to this act.

I} 468. All statutory provisions inconsistent with this
act, are repealed ; but this repeal shall not revive a statute:
or law which may have been repealed or abolished by the}
provisions hereby repealed. And all rights of action given
or secured by existing laws, may. be prosecuted in the
manner provided by this act. If a case" shall arisein which
an action for the enforcement or protection of a right, or
the redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this act, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted
so far as may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice.

{;469. The present rules and practiceof the courts, in
civil actions, inconsistent with this act, are abrogated ; but
where consistent with this act, they shall continue in
force subject to the power of the respective courts to relax, modify, or alter the same.

{} 470. The judges qf the supreme court shall meet in general session at the capital in the city of .&lbany, on the jirst
Wednesday in .dugust, 1852, and every two years thereafter,‘
and at such sessions shall revise their general rules and make

such amendments thereto as experience has shown to be necessary to carry into eject the provisions of the Code of Procedure, and make such further rules as they deem proper, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this act. The rules so
made shall govern the superior court of the city of .N‘ew- York,
the court of common pleas for the city and county of .NaoYork, and the county courts so far as the same may be applicable.

§471. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide,

this act shall not adect proceedings upon mandamus, or

prohibition; nor appeals from surrogates’ courts; nor any
special statutory remedy not heretotbre obtained by action;
nor any existing statutory provisions relating to actions,
not inconsistent with this act, and in substance applicable to the actions hereby provided; nor any proceeding
provided for by chapter five of the second part of the Revised Statutes, or by the sixth and eighth titles of chapter five of the third part of those statutes, or by chapter
eight of the same part, excluding the second and twelfth
titles thereof, or by the first title of chapter nine of the
same part; except that when in consequence of any such
proceeding a civil action shall be brought, such actionshall be conducted in conformity to this act; and except also, that where any particular provision of the titla
and chapters enumerated in this section shall be plainly
inconsistent with this act, such provision shall be deemed

repealed. § 472. Nothing in this act contained shall be taken to

:repeal section 23 of article 2 of title 501’ chapter 6, part

3d of the Revised Statutes, or to repeal an act to extend
the exemption of household furniture and working tools
from distress for rent and sale under execution, passed
April 11, 1842.

§ 473. This act shall take effect on the first day of July,
1848; except that sections 22, 23, 24 and 25 shall -take
effect immediately.


