
AN ACT RELATING TO COURTS, OFFICERS OF JUSTICE, AND
CIVIL PROCEEDINGS.
Passed June 2, 1876 ; three-fifths being present.
The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly, do
enact as follows :
CHAPTER I.
GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO COURTS, AND THE MEM
BERS AND OFFICERS THEREOF.
TITLE I.— The courts of the state; their general powers and
ATTRIBUTES, AND GENERAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE
EXERCISE THEREOF.
TITLE II.— Provisions of general application, relating to the judges,
AND CERTAIN OTHER OFFICERS OF THE COURTS.
TITLE I.
The courts of the State ; their general powers and attributes, and general regula
tions pertaining to the exercise thereof
Article 1. Enumeration and classification.
2. General powers and attributes of the courts.
3. Miscellaneous provisions relating to the sittings of the courts.
ARTICLE FIRST.
Enumeration and Classification.

Courts.
Courts of record enumerated.
Courts not of reconl.
General provision as to jurisdiction, etc.
Courts. The courts referred to in this act are enumerated in
sections.
1

§ 2. Courts of record enumerated. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
Each of the following courts of the State is a court of record :
1. The court for the trial of impeachments.
J ■. 4- -• 2. The court of appeals.
3. The supreme court.
4. A circuit court in each county.
5. A court of oyer and terminer in each county.
6. The court of common pleas for the city and county of New York.
7. The superior court of the city of New York.
8. The court of general sessions of the peace in and for the city and
county of New York.
9. The superior court of Buffalo.
10. The city court of Brooklyn.
f< ' , . ,1 , , . 11. The city court of Long Island city.
12. The city court of Yonkers.
13. A county court in each county, except New York.
14. A court of sessions in each county, except New York.
!_<.(■'
15. The »arine court of the city of New York.
16. The mayor's court of the city of Hudson.
cuL, 17. The recorder's court of the city of Utica.
18. The recorder's court of the city of Oswego,
el?
19. The j«atiees' court of the city of Albany.
20. A surrogate's court in each county.
§ 3. Courts not of record [Amended bt Ch. 416 of 1877.] Each of
the following courts of the State is a court not of record :
1. Courts of justices of the peace in each town, and in certain cities and
villages.
2. Courts of special sessions of the peace in each town, and in certain
cities and villages.
3. The district courts in the city of New York.
4. The police courts in certain cities and villages."
5. The justices' court of the city of Troy.
6. The municipal court of the city of Rochester.
§ 4. General provision as to jurisdiction, etc. [Amended by Ch. 416
of 1877.] Each of those courts shall continue to exercise the jurisdiction and
powers now vested in it by law, according to the course and practice of the
the court, except as otherwise prescribed m this act.


General Powers and Attributes of the Courts.
The sittings of courts to be public.
Courts not to Bit on Sunday, except in special cases.
General powers of courts of recoi-d.
Criminal contempts defined.
Punishment for criminal contempts.
Such contempts in view of court ; how punished, etc.
Requisites of commitment.
Preceding sections limited.
Indictment, if offense is indictable.
Contempts punishable civilly.
No punishment for non-payment of interlocutory costs.
Id.; money due upon a contract.
Rules of courts of record, how made and revised.
Rules to be published.


Courts to order calendar printed.
Expense to be a county charge.
Certain papers may be destroyed.
Writs, etc., in name of the people, and in English; abbreviations.
Id.; teste and return.
Id.; to be subscribed or indorsed. When error, etc., not to vitiate.
No discontinuance by reason of vacancy, etc.
In New York, one judge may continue proceedings commenced before
another.
27. Provisions respecting the seals of courts.
28. Seals of counties.
29. What is a sufficient sealing.
30. New seals.
§ 5. The sittings of courts to be public. [Amended by Ch. 210 of
1879.] The sittings of every court within this State shall be public, and
every citizen may freely attend the same, except that in all proceedings and
trials in cases for divorce, on account of adultery, seduction, abortion, rape,
assault with intent to commit rape, criminal conversation and bastardy, the
court may, in its discretion, exclude therefrom all persons who are not
directly interested therein, excepting jurors, witnesses and officers of the
court.
§ 6. Courts not to sit on Sunday, Except in special cases. A court,
shall not be opened, or transact any business on Sunday, except to receive
a verdict or discharge a jury. An adjournment of a court on Saturday,
unless made after a cause has been committed to a jury, must be to some
other day than Sunday. But this section does not prevent the exercise of
the jurisdiction of a magistrate, where it is necessary to preserve the peace,
or, in a criminal case, to arrest, commit or discharge a person charged with
an offense.
§ 7. General powers of courts of record. A court of record has power:
1. To issue a subpoena, requiring the attendance of a person found in the
State, to testify in a cause pending in that court ; subject, however, to the 1
limitations, prescribed by law, with respect to the portion of the State, in
which the process of a local court of record may be served.
2. To administer an oath to a witness, in the exercise of the powers and
duties of the court.
3. To devise and make new process and forms of proceedings, necessary
to carry into effect the powers and jurisdiction possessed by it.
§ 8. Criminal contempts defined. A court of record has power to
punish for a criminal contempt, a person guilty of either of the following
acts, and no others :
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior, committed during its
sitting, in its immediate view and presence, and directly tending to inter
rupt its proceedings, or to impair the respect due to its authority.
2. Breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbance, directly tending to
interrupt its proceedings.
3. Willful disobedience to its lawful mandate.
4. Resistance willfully offered to its lawful mandate.
5. Contumacious and unlawful refusal to be sworn as a witness; or, after
being sworn, to answer any legal and proper interrogatory.
6. Publication of a false, or grossly inaccurate report of its proceedings.
But a court cannot punish as a contempt, the publication of a true, full, and
fair report of a trial, argument, decision, or other proceeding therein.
§ 9. Punishment for criminal contempts. Punishment for a contempt,
specified in the last section, may be by fine, not exceeding two hundred and
3

CONTEMPTS.

fifty dollars, or by imprisonment, not exceeding thirty days, in the jail of
the county where the court is sitting, or both, in the discretion of the court.
Where a person is committed to jail, for the non-payment of such a fine, he
must be dischai ged at the expiration of thirty days ; but where he is also
committed for a definite time, the thirty days must be computed from the
expiration of the definite time.
§ 10. Such contempts in view of court ; how punished, etc. Such a
contempt, committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, may
be punished summarily; when not so committed, the party charged must be
notified of the accusation, and have a reasonable time to make a defense.
§ 11. Requisites of commitment. Where a poison is committed for
such a contempt, the particular circumstances of his offense must be set
forth in the mandate of commitment.
§ 12. Preceding sections limited. The last four sections do not extend
to a special proceeding to punish a person, in a case specified in section four
teen of this act.
§ 13. Indictment, if offense is indictable. Punishment for a contempt,
as prescribed in this article, does not bar an indictment for the same offense;
but where a person who hits been so punished is convicted on such an indict
ment, the court, in sentencing him, must take into consideration the previous
punishment.
§ 14. Contempts punishable civilly. A court of record has power to
punish, by fine and imprisonment, or either, a neglect or violation of duty,
or other misconduct, by which a right or remedy of a party to a civil action
or special proceeding, pending in the court may be defeated, impaired,
impeded, or prejudiced, in either of the following cases :
1. An attorney, counselor, clerk, sheriff, coroner, or other person, in any
manner duly selected or appointed to perform a judicial or ministerial ser
vice, for a misbehavior in his office or trust, or for a willful neglect or viola
tion of duty therein ; or for disobedience to a lawful mandate of the court,
or of a judge thereof, or of an officer authorized to perform the duties of
such a judge.
2. A party to the act ion or special proceeding, for putting in fictitious bail
or a fictitious surety, or for any deceit or abuse of a mandate or proceeding
of the court.
3. A party to the action or special proceeding, an attorney, counselor, or
other person, for the non-payment of a sum of money, ordered or adjudged
by the court to be paid, in a case where by law execution cannot be awarded
for the collection of such sum ; or for any other disobedience to a lawful
mandate of the court.
4. A person, for assuming to be an attorney or counselor, or other officer
of the court, and acting as such without authority ; for rescuing any prop
erty or person in the custody of an officer, by virtue of a mandate of the
court ; for unlawfully detaining, or fraudulently and willfully preventing, or
disabling from attending or testifying, a witness, or a party to the action or
special proceeding, while going to, remaining at, or returning from, the
sitting where it is noticed for trial or hearing ; and for any other unlawful
interference with the proceedings therein.
5. A person subpoenaed as a witness, for refusing or neglecting to obey
the subpoena, or to attend, or to bo sworn, or to answer as a witness.
6. A person duly notified to attend as a juror, at a term of the court, for
improperly conversing with a party to an action or special proceeding, to be
tried at that term, or with any other person, in relation to the merits of that

action or special proceeding: or for receiving a communication from any
person, in relation to the merits of such an action or special proceeding,
without immediately disclosing the same to the court.
7. An inferior magistrate, or a judge or other officer of an inferior court,
for proceeding, contrary to law, in a cause or matter, which has been removed
from his jurisdiction to the court inflicting the punishment ; or for disobe
dience to a lawful order or other mandate of the latter court.
8. In any other case, where an attachment or any other proceeding to
punish for a contempt, has been usually adopted and practiced in a court of
record, to enforce a civil remedy of a party to an action or special proceed
ing in that court or to protect the right of a party.
§ 15. No imprisonment for non-payment of interlocutory costs.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] But a person shall not be arrested or
imprisoned, for the non-payment of costs, awarded otherwise than by a final
judgment, or a final order made in a special proceeding instituted by State
writ, except where an attorney, counselor, or other officer of the court, is
ordered to pay costs for misconduct as such or a witness is ordered to pay
costs on an attachment for non-attendance.
§ 16. Id. ; money due upon a contract Except in a case where it
is otherwise specially prescribed by law, a person shall not be arrested or
imprisoned for disobedience to a judgment or order, requiring the payment
of money due upon a contract, express or implied, or as damages for non
performance of a contract.
§ 17. Rules of courts of record, how made and revised [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The general term justices of the supreme court, and
the chief judges of the superior city courts, must meet in convention, at the
capitol, in the city of Albany, on the first Wednesday of October, eighteen
hundred and seventy-seven, and every second year thereafter. The conven
tion must establish rules of practice, not inconsistent with this act, which
shall be binding upon all courts of record, except the court for the trial of
impeachments and the court of appeals. A majority of the members of the
convention constitute a quorum. The rules thus established are styled in
this act, " the general rules of practice."
§ 18. Rules to be published. A rule thus established, or a general rule
or order of the court of appeals, does not take effect, until it has been pub
lished in the newspaper published at Albany, in which legal notices are
required by law to be published, once in each week for three successive
weeks.
§ 19. Courts to order calendar printed. The supreme court, a superior
city court, or a county court, may, from time to time, by order, require the
clerk to cause to be printed for the use of the members and officers thereof,
the necessary copies of the calendar of causes, prepared for a term of the
court, or, in the supreme court, for the circuit court. But this section does
not apply to the city and county of New York.
§ 20. Expense to be a county charge. The expense of printing the
copies of the calendar for a term, shall be a charge upon the county in which
the term is held ; and must be audited, allowed, and paid, by the board of
supervisors thereof, in like manner as other contingent county charges.
§ 21. Certain papers may be destroyed. A superior city court may,
from time to time, by an order made at general term, direct the clerk of the
court, and the supreme court, at general term, may by a like order, direct a
county clerk, to destroy any of the following papers now filed, or hereafter

to be filed in his office, which the court deems to have become useless, to wit:
pleadings, or copies of pleadings furnished for the use of the court ; jury
panels; returns of inferior courts, which have been embodied in judgmentrecords or judgment-rolls ; innkeepers' licenses, ten years old ; and returns
of election district canvassers, twenty years old, which have been copied
pursuant to law, into books preserved in his office. But this provision does
not authorize the destruction of a judgment-roll, or a paper incorporated or
necessary to be incorporated into a judgment-roll.
§ 22. Writs, etc., in name of the people, and in English ; abbrevia
tions. Except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, a writ or
other process must be in the name of the people of the State, and each writ,
process, record, pleading or other proceeding in a court, or before an officer,
must be in the English language, and, unless it is oral, made out on paper
or parchment, in a fair legible character, in words at length, and not abbre
viated. But the proper and known names of process, and technical words,
may be expressed in appropriate language, as now is, and heretofore has
been customary ; such abbreviations as are now commonly employed in the
English language may be used ; and numbers may be expressed by Arabic
figures, or Roman numerals, in the customary manner.
§ 23. Id. ; teste and return. A writ or other process, issued out of a
court of record, must be tested, except where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law, in the name of a judge of the court, on any day; must
be returnable within the time prescribed by law ; or, if no time is prescribed
by law, within the time fixed by the court, and therein specified for that
purpose ; and, when returnable, must, together with the return thereto, be
filed with the clerk, unless otherwise specially prescribed by law.
§ 24. Id ; to be subscribed or indorsed When error, etc., not to
vitiate. A writ or other process, issued out of a court of record, must,
before the delivery thereof to an officer to be executed, be subscribed or
indorsed with the name of the officer by whom, or by whose direction it was
granted, or the attorney for the party, or the person at whose instance it
was issued. A writ or other process thus subscribed or indorsed is not void
or voidable, by reason of having no seal or a wrong seal thereon, or of any
mistake or omission in the teste thereof, or in the name of the clerk, unless
it was issued by special order of the court.
§ 25. No discontinuance by reason of vacancy, etc. [Amended by
Ch. 41 6 op 1877.] An action or special proceeding, civil or criminal, in a
court of record, is not discontinued by a vacancy or change in the judges of
the court, or by the re-election or re-appointment of a judge ; but it must be
continued, heard and determined, by the court, as constituted at the time of
the hearing or determination. After a judge is out of office, he may settle
a case or exceptions, or make any return of proceedings, had before him
while lie was in office, and may be compelled so to do by the court in which
the action or special proceeding is pending.
§ 26. In New York, one judge may continue proceedings com
menced before another. In the city and county of New York, a special
proceeding instituted before a judge of a court of record, or a proceeding
commenced before a judge of the court, out of court, in an action or special
roceeding pending in a court of record, may be continued from time to time,
eforo one or more other judges of the same court, with like effect, as if it
had been instituted or commenced before the judge, who last hears the same.
§ 27. Provisions respecting the seals of courts. The seal of the court
of appeals, and of each other court of record in the State, now in use, shall

continue to be the seal of the court in which it is in use ; and the seal kept
by the county clerk of each county, shall continue to be the seal of the
supreme court, of the circuit court, of the court of oyer and terminer, in that
county, and, except in the city and county of New York, of the county court
and court of sessions, in that county. The seal of tho surrogate of each
county shall continue to be the seal of the surrogate's court of that county,
and must be used as such by an officer, who discharges the duties of the
surrogate. A discription of each of the seals, specified in this section,
must be deposited and recorded in the office of the Secretary of State, unless
it has already been done ; and must remain of record.
§ 28. Seals of counties. The seal kept by a county clerk, as prescribed
in the last section, shall continue to be the seal of the county, and must be
used by him where he is required to use an official seal.
§ 29. What is a sufficient sealing. The seal of a court may be affixed,
by making an impression directly upon the paper.
§ 30. New seals. When the seal of a court is so injured, that it cannot
be conveniently used, the court must cause it to be destroyed ; and when the
seal of a court is lost or destroyed, the court must cause a new seal to be made
similar in all respects to the former seal, which shall become the seal of the
court. The expense of a new seal for a county clerk, a surrogate's court, or
a local court in a city, must be paid as part of the contingent expenses of
the county or of the court, as the case requires. The expense of a new seal
for any other court must be paid from the State treasury.
§ 31. Rooms, fuel, etc., how furnished. Except where other provision
is made therefore by law, the board of supervisors of each county must pro
vide each court of record, appointed to be held therein, with proper and
convenient rooms and furniture, together with attendants, fuel, lights, and
stationery, suitable and sufficient for the transaction of its business. If the
supervisors neglect so to do, the court may order the sheriff to make the
requisite provision ; and the expense incurred by him in carrying the order
into effect, when certiffed by the court, is a county charge.
6 32. No liquors, etc., to be sold in court-house. [Amended by Ch.
416 or 1877.] Strong, spirituous, or fermented liquor, or wine, shall not, on
any pretense whatever, be sold within a building established as a court
house for holding courts of record, while such a court is sitting therein.

§ 33. Penalty. A person violating the last section is guilty of a misde
meanor.
§ 34. Adjournment of court to a future day. A general, special, or
trial term of a court of record may be adjourned, from day to day, or to a
specified future day, by an entry in the minutes. Jurors may be drawn for,
and notified to attend a term so adjourned, and causes may be noticed for
trial thereat, as if it was held by original appointment. Any judge of the
court may so adjourn a term thereof, in the absence of a sufficient number of
judges to hold the term.
§ 35. Adjournment of term, judge not appearing. [Amended bt Ch.
416 op 1877.] If a judge authorized to hold a term of a court, does not come
to the place, where the term is appointed too be held, before four o'clock in
the afternoon of the day so appointed, the sheriff or clerk must then open the
term, and forthwith adjourn it to nine o'clock in the morning of the next day.
If such a judge attend by four o'clock, in the afternoon of the second day, he
must open the term ; otherwise the sheriff or the clerk must adjourn it with
out day.
§ 36. When a court to be adjourned to a day certain. [Amended by
Ch. 416 op 1877.] If, before four o'clock of the second day, the sheriff or
the clerk receives from a judge, authorized to hold the term, a written direc
tion to adjourn the term to a future day certain, he must adjourn it accord
ingly, instead of adjourning it as prescribed in the last section. The direc
tion must be entered in the minutes as an order.
§ 37. Causes tried elsewhere than at court-house. The parties to an
action or special proceeding, pending in a court of record, may, with the
consent of the judge who is to try or hear it, without a jury, stipulate in
writing, that it shall be tried or heard and determined, elsewhere than at
the court-house. The stipulation must specify the place of trial or hearing,
and must be filed in the office of the clerk ; and the trial or hearing must be
brought on upon the usual notice, unless otherwise provided in the stipulalation.
§ 38. Governor may change place for holding courts of record. If
the Governor deems it requisite, by reason of war, pesfilence, or other public
calamity, or the danger thereof, that the next ensuing term, or the next
ensuing adjourned sitting, of the court of appeals, or that the next ensuing
term of any other court of record appointed to be held elsewhere than in the
city of New York, should be held at a place, other than that where it is
appointed to be held, he may by proclamation, appoint a different place
within its district, for the holding thereof ; and at any time thereafter he
may revoke the appointment, and appoint another place, or leave the term
to be held at the place where it would have been held, but for his appoint
ment.
§ 39. Such appointment, etc., to be recorded and published Such
an appointment or revocation must be under the hand of the Governor, and
filed in the office of the Secretary of State ; it must be published in such
newspapers and for such time, as the Governor directs ; and the expenses of
the publication must be paid out of the State treasury.
§ 40. Judge may change place for holding court of record. If a
malignant, contagious, or epidemic disease exists at, the place, where a term of
a court of record is appointed to be held, and the Governor has not appointed,
under the last two sections, another place to hold the same, the judge, or, if
there are two or more, the chief or presiding judge, designated to hold the
8

term, may, by order, direct the terra to be held at another place, designated
by him, within the district for which it is to be held. The order must be
forthwith filed, in the office of the clerk of the county where the term was to
be held, and published in such newspapers, and for such a time, as the judge
directs therein ; and thereafter the Governor shall not appoint another place
for holding that term.
§ 41. Actual session may be adjourned to another place. If, during
the actual session of a term of a court of record, the judge, or a majority of
the judges, holding the same, deem it inexpedient, by reason of war, pesti
lence or other public calamity, or the danger thereof, or for want of suitable
accommodation, that the term should be continued at the place where it is
then being held, the court may, by order, adjourn the term, to be held at
any other time and place within its district. Notice of such an adjourn
ment must be given, as the court directs by the order.
§ 42. Place for holding courts in city of New York, how changed
The mayor, or, in case of his absence, or other disability, the recorder of the
city of New York, may, by proclamation, direct that the next ensuing term
of any court, other than the court of appeals, appointed to be held in that
city, shall be held in any building, within the city of New York, other than
the building where the same is regularly to be held, if, in his opinion, war,
pesfilence, or other public calamity, or the danger thereof, or the destruction
or injury of the building, or the want of suitable accommodation, renders it
necessary that some other place should be selected. The proclamation must
be published in two or more daily newspapers, published in the city of New
York.
§ 43. When court-house is unfit to hold court, another place to be
appointed. If the building established as a court-house in any other county
is destroyed, or is, for any cause unsafe, inconvenient* or unfit for holding
court therein, the county judge of the county may, by an order filed in the
office of the clerk of the county, appoint another building in the vicinity for
temporarily holding courts. The building so appointed becomes the court
house of the county, for the time being; and business transacted therein
has the same effect, as if it was transacted at the usual place.
§ 44. No action or special proceeding abated, etc., by failure or
adjournment of court When a term of court fails or is adjourned, or the
time or place of holding the same is changed, as prescribed in this chapter,
an action, special proceeding, writ, process, recognizance, or other proceed
ing, civil or criminal, returnable, or to be heard or tried, at that term, is not
abated, discontinued, or rendered void thereby ; but all persons are bound
to appear, and all proceedings must be had, at the time and place to which
the term is adjourned or changed, or, if it fails, at the next term, with like
effect as if the term was held, as originally appointed.
§ 45. Trial once commenced may be continued beyond term
Where the trial or hearing of an issue of fact, joined in an action or special
proceeding, civil or criminal, has been commenced at a term of a court of
record, it may, notwithstanding the expiration of the time appointed for the
term to continue, be continued to the completion thereof; including, if the
cause is tried by a jury, all proceedings taken therein until the actual dis
charge of the jury; or, if it is tried by the court without a jury, until it ia

§ 46. Judge not to sit where he is a party, etc., or has not heard
argument. A judge shall not sit as such in, or take any part in the deci
sion of, a cause or matter to which he is a party, or in which he has been
attorney or counsel, or in which he is interested, or if he is related by consan
guinity or affinity to any party to the controversy within the sixth degree. The
degree shall be ascertained by ascending from the judge to the ccmmon ancestor ;
and descending to the party, counting a degree for each person in both lines,
including the judge and party, and excluding the common ancestor. A judge,
other than a judge of the court of appeals, shall not decide or take part in
the decision of a question, which was argued orally in the court, when he
was not present and sitting therein as a judge. [Am'd Ch. 234 of 1883.J
§ 47. Judge not to be interested in costs. A judge shall not, directly
or indirectly, be interested in the costs of an action or special proceeding,
brought before him, or in a court of which he is, or is entitled to act as a
member, except an action or special proceeding to which he is a party, or in
which he is interested.
§ 48. Disability of judge in certain appeals. Where an appeal has
been taken to a court of sessions, in which a town in the county is interested,
a justice of the peace, who is a resident of that town, shall not sit as a
justice of sessions, upon the hearing of the appeal. Except as specified in
this section, a judge of a court of record is not disqualified from hearing
or deciding an action or special proceeding, matter, or question, by reason
of his being a resident or a tax-payer of a town, village, city, or county,
interested therein.
§ 49. Judge or judge's partner not to practice in his court. A judge
shall not practice or act as an attorney or counselor, in a court of which he
is, or is entitled to act as a member, or in a cause originating in that court.
A law partner of, or person connected in law business with a judge, shall not
practice or act as an attorney or counselor, in a court, of which the judge
is, or is entitled to act as a member, or in a cause originating in that
court ; except where the latter is a member of a court, ex-officio, and does
10

not officiate or take part, as a member of that court, in any of the proceed
ings therein. An ex-officio judge shall not, directly or indirectly, be inter
ested in the costs, or the compensation of an attorney or counsellor, in the
court of which he is ex-officio a judge.
§ 50. Judge's partner or clerk not to practice before him, judge not
to practice in a cause which has been before him. [Amended by Ch.
416 of 1877.] The law partner or clerk of a judge shall not practice before
him, as attorney or counsellor in any cause, or be employed in any cause
which originated before him. A judge shall not act as attorney or coun
sellor in any action or special proceeding, which has been before him in his
official character.
§ 51. Judge not to take fees for advice in certain cases. A judge
or other judicial officer, shall not demand or receive a fee or other compensa
tion, for giving his advice in a matter or thing pending before him, or which
he has reason to believe will be brought before him for decision ; or for pre
paring a paper or other proceeding, relating to such a matter or thing;
except a justice of the peace, in a case where a fee is expressly allowed to
him by law.
§ 52. Substitution of one officer for another in special proceedingIn case of the death, sickness, resignation, removal from office, absence from
the county, or other disability of an officer, before whom a special proceeding
has been instituted, where no express provision is made by law for the con
tinuance thereof, it may be continued before the officer's successor, or atiy
other officer residing in the same county, before whom it might have been
originally instituted ; or, if there is no such officer in the same county, before
an officer in an adjoining county, who would originally have had jurisdiction
of the subject-matter, it it had occurred or existed in the latter county.
§ 53. Proceedings before substituted officer. At the time and place
specified in a notice or order, for a party to appear, or for any other pro
ceeding to be taken, or at the time and place specified in the notice to be
given, as prescribed in this section, the officer substituted as prescribed in
the last section, or in any other provision of law, to continue a special pro
ceeding instituted before another, may act, with respect to the special pro
ceeding, as if it had been originally instituted before him. But a proceed
ing shall not be taken before a substituted officer, at a time or place, other
than that specified in the original notice or order, until notice of the substi
tution, and of the time and place appointed for the proceeding to be taken,
has been given, either by personal service or by publication, in such manner
and for such time as the substituted officer directs, to each party who may
be effected* thereby, and who has not appeared before either officer. Where,
after a hearing has been commenced, it is adjourned to the next judicial
day, each day to which it is so adjourned, is regarded, for the purposes of
this section, as the day specified in the original notice or order, or iu tho
notice to appear before the substituted officer, as the case requires.
§ 54. Judge to file certificate of age, etc. A judge of a court of record
must, within ten days after he enters on the duties of his office, make and
sign a certificate, stating his age, and the time when his official term will
expire, either by completion of a full term, or by reason of the disability of
age, prescribed in the Constitution. The certificate must be filed in the
office of the Secratary of State, who must keep a record of the time of the
commencement and termination of the official term, of each judge of a court
of record.
* So in the original at margin of page.
11


§ 55. Party may appear in person or by attorney. A party to a civil
action, who is of full age, may prosecute or defend the same in person or by
attorney, at his election, unless he has been judicially declared to be incom
petent to manage his affairs. Each provision of this act, relating to the con
duct of an action, wherein tho attorney for the party is mentioned, includes
a party prosecuting or defending in person, unless otherwise specially pre
scribed therein, or unless that construction is manifestly repugnant to the
context. If a party has an attorney in the action, he cannot appear to act
in person, where an attorney may appear or act, either by special provision
of law, or by tho course and practice of the court.
§ 56. Examination and admission of attorneys. A male citizen of
the State, of full age, hereafter applying to be admitted to practice as an
attorney or counsellor, in the courts of record of the State, must be examined
at a general term of the supreme court, by the justices holding the term, or
a committee appointed by them. If it is found that he has complied with
the rules, established by the court of appeals for that purpose, and he is
approved, by the justices holding the term, for his good character and learn
ing, the court must direct an order to be entered, stating those facts, and
admitting him to practice as an attorney and counsellor, in all the courts of
record of the State. Thereupon, after qualifying, as prescribed in section
fifty-nine of this act, he is entitled to practice accordingly ; subject, never
theless, to suspension or removal from office, as prescribed by law.
§ 57. Rules, how changed The rules established by the court of
appeals, touching the admission of attorneys and counsellors to practice in
the courts of record of the State, shall not be changed or amended, except

by a majority of the judges of that court. A copy of each amendment of
those rules must, within five days after it is adopted, be filed in the office of
the Secretary of State ; who must transmit a printed copy thereof to the
clerk of each county, and to the presiding justice of the supreme court, in
each judicial department, and also cause the same to be published, in the
next ensuing volume of the session laws.
§ 58. Exemptions to graduates of certain law schools. [Amended
in Ch. 416 of 1877.] Nothing contained in the last two sections prevents
the court of appeals from dispensing, in the rules established by it, with the
whole or any part of the stated period of clerkship, required from an appli
cant, or with an examination, where the applicant is a graduate of the
Albany law school, the law department of Union university, or of the law
department of the university of the city of New York, or of the law school
of Columbia college, or the law department of Hamilton college, and pro
duces his diploma upon his application for admission.
§ 59. Attorney's oath of office, and certificate of admission. Each
person, admitted as prescribed in the last three sections, must, upon his
admission, take the Constitutional oath of office in open court, and subscribe
the same in a roll or book, to be kept in the supreme court for that purpose.
The clerk, upon the payment of the fees allowed by law, must deliver to the
person admitted, a certificate under his hand and official seal, stating that
such person has been so admitted, and that he has taken and subscribed the
Constitutional oath of office, as prescribed in this section.
§ 60. Attorneys residing in adjoining States. A person, regularly
admitted to practice as attorney and counselor, in the courts of record of the
State, whose office for the transaction of law business is within the State,
may practice as such attorney or counselor, although he resides in an adjoin
ing State. But service of a paper, which might be made upon him at his
residence, if he was a resident of the State, may be made upon him, by
depositing the paper in a post-office in the city or town where his office is
located, properly inclosed in a postpaid wrapper, directed to him at his office.
A service thus made is equivalent to personal service upon him.
§ 61. Clerks, etc., not to practice. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or special
deputy-clerk of a court shall not, during his continuance in office, practice
as attorney or counsellor in that court.
§ 62. Id ; as to sheriff, etc. A sheriff, under-sheriff, deputy-sheriff,
sheriff's clerk, constable, coroner, crier, or attendant of a court, shall not,
during his continuance in office, practice as an attorney or counsellor in any
court.
§ 63. None but attorneys to practice in New York and Kings
counties. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] A person shall not ask or
receive, directly or indirectly, compensation for appearing as attorney in a
court in the city and county of New York, or in the county of Kings, or
make it a business to practice as an attorney in a court in either of those
counties, unless he has been regularly admitted to practice as an attorney or
counsellor in the courts of record of the State.
§ 64. Penalty for violation, or suffering violation of last section.
A person who violates the last section is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall
be punished by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one month, or
by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars, or more than two hundred
and fifty dollars, or by both such fine and imprisonment. A judge or justice
of the peace, within the city and county of New York, or the county of
13

Kings, who knowingly permits to practice in his court, a person who has not
been regularly admitted to practice in the courts of record of the State, is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished as prescribed in this section.
But this and tha last section do not apply to a case where a person appears
in a cause to which he is a party.
§ 65. Death or disability of attorney ; proceedings thereupon. If an
attorney dies, is removed or suspended, or otherwise becomes disabled to act,
at any time before j udgment in an action, no further proceeding shall be taken
in the action against the party for whom he appeared, until thirty days after
notice to appoint another attorney, has been given to that party, either per
sonally, or in such other manner as the court directs.
§ 66. Attorney or counsellor's compensation ; lien of upon cause of
action for. [Amended by Cu. 542 op 1879.J The compensation of an attor
ney or counsellor for his services is governed by agreement, express or im
plied, which is not restrained by law. From the commencement of an action,
or the service of an answer containing a counterclaim, the attorney who
appears for a party, has a lien upon his client's cause of action or counter
claim, which attaches to a verdict, report, decision or judgment in his client's
favor, and the proceeds thereof in whosoever hands they may come ; and
cannot be affected by any settlement between the parties before or after
judgment.
§ 67. Removal or suspension for malpractice, etc. An attorney or
counsellor, who is guilty of any deceit, malpractice, crime, or misdemeanor,
may be suspended from practice, or removed from office, by the supreme
court, at a general term thereof.
§ 68. Must be on notice. Before an attorney or counselor is suspended
or removed, as prescribed in the last section, a copy of the charges against
him must be delivered to him, and he must be allowed an opportunity of
being heard in his defense.
§ 69. Removal or suspension ; how to operate. The suspension or
removal of an attorney or counsellor, by the supreme court, operates as a
suspension or removal in every court of the State.
§ 70. Punishment for deceit, etc. An attorney or counsellor, who is
guilty of any deceit or collusion, or consents to any deceit or collusion, with
intent to deceive the court or a party, forfeits, to the party injured by his
deceit or collusion, treble damages. He is also guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 71. Id. ; for willful delay of action. An attorney or counsellor, who
willfully delays his client's cause, with a view to his own gain, or willfully
receives money, or an allowance for or on account of money, which he has not
laid out or become answerable for, forfeits, to the party injured, treble
damages.
§ 72. Attorney not to lend his name. If an attorney knowingly per
mits a person, not being his general law partner, or a clerk in his office, to
sue out a mandate, or to prosecute or defend an action in his name, he, and
the person who so uses his name, each forfeits to the party, against whom
the mandate has been sued out, or the action prosecuted or defended, the
sum of fifty dollars, to be recovered in an action.
§ 73. Attorney not to buy claim. An attorney or counsellor shall not,
directly or indirectly, buy, or be in any manner interested in buying, a bond,
promissory note, bill of exchange, book-debt, or other thing in action, with
the intent and for the purpose of bringing an action thereon.
14

§ 74. Certain loans prohibited. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.]
An attorney or counsellor shall not, by himself, or by or in the name of
another person, either before or after action brought, promise to give, or pro
cure to be promised or given, a valuable consideration to any person, as an
inducement to placing, or in consideration of having placed, in his hands,
or in the hands of another person, a demand of any kind, for the purpose of
bringing an action thereon. But this section does not apply to an agreement
between attorneys and counselors, or either, to divide between themselves
the compensation to be received.
§ 75. Penalty. An attorney or counsellor, who violates either of the last
two sections, is guilty of a misdemeanor ; and, on conviction thereof, shall
be punished accordingly, and must be removed from office by the supreme
court.
§ 76. Limitation of preceding sections. The last three sections do not
prohibit the receipt, by an attorney or counsellor, of a bond, promissory note,
bill of exchange, book-debt, or other thing in action, in payment for prop
erty sold, or for services actually rendered, or for a debt antecedently con
tracted ; or from buying or receiving a bill of exchange, draft, or other thing
in action, for the purpose of remittance, and without intent to violate either
of those sections.
§ 77. Same rule when party prosecutes in person. The last four
sections apply to a person prosecuting an action in person, who does an act,
which an attorney or counsellor is therein forbidden to do.
§ 78. Partner of district attorney, etc., not to defend prosecutions.
An attorney or counsellor shall not, directly or indirectly, advise concerning
aid, or take any part in, the defense of an action or special proceeding, civil
or criminal, brought, carried on, aided, advocated, or prosecuted, as attor
ney-general, district-attorney, or other public prosecutor, by a person with
whom he is interested or connected, either directly or indirectly, as a law
partner ; or take or receive, directly or indirectly, as a law partner ; or take
or receive, directly or indirectly, from a defendant therein, or other person,
a fee, gratuity, or reward, for or upon any cause, consideration, pretense,
understanding, or agreement whatever, either express or implied, having
relation thereto, or to the prosecution or defense thereof.
§ 79. Attorney not to defend when he has been public prosecutor.
An attorney or counsellor, who has brought, carried on, aided, advocated, or
prosecuted, or has been in anywise connected with, an action or special pro
ceeding, civil or criminal, as Attorney-General, district-attorney, or other
public prosecutor, shall not, at any time thereafter, directly or indirectly,
advise concerning, aid, or take any part in the defense thereof ; or take or
receive, either directly or indirectly, from a defendant therein, or other
person, a fee, gratuity, or reward, for or upon any cause, consideration, pre
tence, understanding or agreement, either express or implied, having rela
tion thereto, or to the prosecution or defense thereof.
§ 80. Penalty. An attorney or counsellor, who violates either of the last
two sections, is guilty of a misdemeanor; and on conviction thereof, shall be
punished accordingly, and must be removed from office by the supreme court.
§ 81. Limitation ot provisions. This article does not prohibit an attor
ney or counsellor from defending himself in person, if prosecuted either
civilly or criminally.
15

§ 82. Qualifications of stenographer. Each stenographer, specified in
this act, is an officer of the court or courts, for or by which he is appointed ;
and, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, must subscribe the
Constitutional oath of office, and file the same in the office of the clerk of the
court, or, in the supreme court, in the office of the clerk of the county where
the term sits, or the judge resides, by which or by whom he is appointed.
A person shall not be appointed to the office of stenographer, unless he is
skilled in the stenographic art.
§ 83. General duty of stenographer ; notes, when to be filed. Each
stenographer, specified in this act, must, under the direction of the judge,
presiding at or holding the term or sitting which he attends, take full
stenographic notes of the testimony, and of all other proceedings, in each
cause tried or heard thereat, except when the judge dispenses with his ser
vices in a particular cause, or with respect to a portion of the proceedings
therein. The court, or a judge thereof, may, in its or his discretion, upon
or without an application for that purpose, make an order, directing the
stenographer to file with the clerk, forthwith or within a specified time, the
original stenographic notes, taken upon a trial or hearing ; whereupon the
stenographer must file the same accordingly.
§ 84. Notes, how preserved ; when written out. The original
stenographic notes, taken by a stenographer, are part of the proceedings in
the cause ; and, unless they are filed, pursuant to an order, made as pre
scribed in the last section, they must be carefully preserved by the steno
grapher, for two years after the trial or hearing ; at the expiration of which
time he may destroy the same. If the stenographer dies, or his office
becomes otherwise vacant, before the expiration of that time, they must be
delivered to his successor in office, to be held by him with like effect, as if
they had been taken by him. They must be written out at length by the
stenographer, if a judge of the court so directs, or if the stenographer is
required so to do, by a person entitled by law to a copy of the same, so writ
16

ten out. Unless such a direction is given, or such a requisition is made, the
stenographer is not bound so to write them out.
§ 85. Stenographers to furnish gratuitously copies of proceedings,
to judge. Each stenographer, specified in this act, must, upon request,
furnish, with all reasonable diligence and without charge, to the judge
attended, a copy, written out at
length, from his stenographic notes, of the testimony and proceedings, or a
part thereof, upon a trial or hearing, at that term or sitting. But this sec
tion does not affec4- a provision of law, authorizing the judge to direct a party
or the parties to an action or special proceeding, or the county treasurer, to
pay the stenographer's fees for such a copy.
$ 86. To furnish like copies to parties, district-attorney and Attor
ney-General ; compensation. Each stenographer, specified in this act,
must likewise, upon request, furnish with all reasonable diligence, to the
defendant in a criminal cause, or a party, or his attorney in a civil cause, in
which he has attended the trial or hearing, a copy, written out at length
from his stenographic notes, of the testimony and proceedings, or a part
payment, by the person requiring
the same, of the fees allowed by law. If the district-attorney or the attor
ney-general requires such a copy, in a criminal cause, the stenographer
is entitled to his fees therefore; but he must furnish it, upon receiving a
certificate of the sum to which he is so entitled ; which shall be a county
charge, and must be paid by the county treasurer, upon a certificate, like
other county charges.
§ 87. These sections applicable to assistant stenographers The
provisions of the last five sections are also applicable to each assistant sten
ographer, now in office, or appointed or employed, pursuant to any provision
of this act ; except that the stenographic notes, taken by an assistant-sten
ographer, must, if he dies or his office becomes otherwise vacant, be delivered
to the stenographer, to be held by him with like effect, as if they had been
taken by him.
§ 88. Supervisors to provide for compensation, etc., of stenogra
phers. The board of supervisors of each county must provide for the pay
ment of the sums chargeal >le upon the treasury of the county, for the salary,
fees, or expenses of a stenographer or assistant-stenographer ; and all laws
relating to raising money in a county, by the board of supervisors thereof,
are applicable to those sums.
§ 89. County clerk to appoint special deputy to attend courts.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877, and by Ch 542 of 1879.] Each county
clerk may, from time to time, by an instrument in writing, filed in his
office, appoint, and at pleasure remove, one or more special deputy-clerks,
to attend upon any or all of the terms or sittings of the courts of which he is
clerk. Each person so appointed must, before he enters upon the duties of
his office, subscribe, and file in the clerk's office, the constitutional oath of
office ; and he possesses the same power and authority as the clerk, at any
sitting or term of the court which he attends, with respect to the business
transacted thereat.
'
§ 90. Clerk in New York, or Kings, not to be referee, etc. [Original
SECTION CONSOLIDATED WITH SECTION 91, AND PRESENT SECTION INSERTED BY
Ch. 416 of 1877.] No person holding the office of clerk, deputy-clerk,
special deputy-clerk, or assistant in the clerk's office, of a court of record
or of the surrogate's court, within either of the counties of New York or
[2]

Kings, shall hereafter be appointed, by any court or judge, a referee, receiver
or commissioner, except by the written consent of all the parties to the
action or special proceeding, other than parties in default for failure to
appear or to plead.
§ 91. Crier for courts of record, in certain counties. [Original sec
tions 90 and 91 consolidated by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The county judge of
each county, except Kings [
], from time to time, may appoint, and
at pleasure remove, a crier for the courts of record held in his county ; who
is entitled to a compensation fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
[Am'd Ch. 389 op 1883.]
§ 92. When sheriff; constable, etc., to act as crier. A sheriff, deputysheriff, or constable, attending a term of a court of record, must, when
required by the court, act as crier therein ; and he is not entitled to any
additional compensation for that service.
§ 93. Attendants upon courts in New York city. The judges, or a
majority of them, of each of the following named courts, to wit : the supreme
court within the first judicial district ; the court of common pleas for the city
and county of New York ; and the superior court of the city of New York,
from time to time, may appoint, and at pleasure remove, such attendants
upon the court of which they are respectively members, including, where the
justices of the supreme court make the appointment, the circuit court, and
court of oyer and terminer, as they think necessary for the due transaction
of the business thereof ; not exceeding four attendants for each part, and
four for the general term.
§ 94. Interpreter for courts of record in Kings county. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The board of supervisors of the county of Kings may
appoint an interpreter, to attend the terms of the courts of record, except the
county court, held in that county, at which issues of fact are triable ; who
shall hold his office during good behavior.
§ 95. Attendants and messengers, how appointed in Kings county.
The following judges, to wit : the justices of the supreme court for the second
judicial district, residing in Kings county, or a majority of them ; the judges
of the city court of Brooklyn, or a majority of them; the county judge of
Kings county; and the surrogate of Kings county may designate how
many attendants and messengers, for the appointment of whom no provision
is otherwise made by law, are required to attend upon the terms and sittings
of the courts, of which they are respectively members ; including, where the
justices of the supreme court make the designation, the circuit court and
court of oyer and terminer. Notice of each designation must be given to the
sheriff of Kings county, by the clerk of the court. The sheriff must there
upon appoint as many qualified persons, to fill those offices for each court, as
the judges thereof have designated. The number of those officers may, from
time to time, be increased or diminished, and new appointments may be
made, in like manner. A person so appointed may be removed from office,
by the judge of the court to which he is assigned ; or, if he is assigned to
the supreme court, or the city court of Brooklyn, by a majority of the judges;
and the sheriff shall not re-appoint, for the same court, a person so removed.
§ 96. Duties of persons appointed under last section. Each of the
rsons, appointed as prescribed in the last section, must attend, from day
day, the terms and sittings, within the county of Kings, of the court to which he is assigned, to preserve order, and to perform whatever services may
be required of him, by the judge presiding thereat.
§ 97. Sheriff when directed to notify constables, etc., to attend
courts. The sheriff of each county, except New York and Kings, must
within a reasonable time before the sitting, in his county, of a special term
of the supreme court, or a term of the circuit court, county court, court of
oyer and terminer, or court of sessions, notify, in writing and personally, as
many constables of his county, as he has been directed to notify, by the
court, or the judge who is to hold or preside at the term, to appear and
attend upon the term, during its sitting.
§ 98. Id, when not directed. If such a direction has not been given
by the court or the judge, the sheriff may in like manner notify as many
constables, as he deems necessary for the purpose specified in the last
section.
§ 99. Penalty for neglect of officer to attend court. Each constable
seasonably notified, as prescribed in the last two sections, must attend the
term accordingly ; and for each day's neglect, he may be fined by the court,
at the term which he was notified to attend, a sum not exceeding five dollars.

EXECUTION OP MANDATES.

POWERS, DUTIES, AND LIABILITIES OF A SHERIFF, OR OTHER
MINISTERIAL OFFICER, IN THE EXECUTION OF THE PROCESS
OR OTHER MANDATE OF A COURT OR JUDGE, IN A CIVIL CASec.
TITLE

§ 100. Sheriff to furnish certain minute. A sheriff, to whom a man
date of any description, is delivered to be executed, must, without com
pensation, give to the person delivering the same, if required, a minute in
writing, signed by the sheriff, specifying the name of the parties, the gen
eral nature of the mandate, and the day and hour of receiving the same.
§ 101. Copy of process, etc., to be delivered when served. [Amended
by Ch. 416 of 1877.] A sheriff, or other officer, serving a mandate, must, ,
upon the request of the person served, deliver to him a copy thereof, with
out compensation.
§ 102. Sheriff to execute process, etc., may return by mail
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] A sheriff or other officer, to whom a man
date is directed and delivered, must execute the same according to the com
mand thereof, and make return thereon of his proceedings, under his hand.
For a violation of this provision, he is liable to the party aggrieved, for the
damages sustained by him; in addition to any fine, or other punishment
or proceeding, authorized by law. A mandate directed and delivered to a
sheriff may be returned, by depositing the same in the post-office, properly
inclosed in a post-paid wrapper, addressed to the clerk, at the place where
his office is situated ; unless the officer, making the return in the name of
the sheriff, resides in the place where the clerk's office is situated.

§ 10:3. liability for neglect in special proceedings. [Amended by Ch.
416 op 1877.] A sheriff, or other oincer, to whom is delivered, for service or
execution, a mandate, authorized by law to be issued, by a judge or other
officer, in a special proceeding, who willfully neglects to execute the same,
may be fined by the judge, in a sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars, and
is liable to the party aggrieved for his damages sustained (hereby.
§ 104. Sheriff may summon the power of the county to overcome
resistance. If a sheriff, to whom a maudate is directed ami delivered,
finds, or has reason to apprehend, that resistance will be made to the execu
tion thereof, he may command all the male persons in his county, or as many
as he thinks proper, and with such arms as he directs, including any mili
tary organization armed and equipped, to assist him in overcoming the
resistance, and, if necessary, in arresting and confining the resisters, their
aiders and abettors, to be dealt with according to law.
§ 105. Names of resisters to be certified. The sheriff must certify to
the court, from which or by whose authority the mandate was issued, the
names of the resisters, fheir aiders and abettors, as far as he can ascertain
the same, to the end that they may be punished for their contempt of the
court.
§ 106. Punishment for refusing to assist. A person, commanded by a
sheriff to assist him, as prescribed in the last section but one, who, without
lawful cause, refuses, or neglects to obey the command, is guilty of a misde
meanor.
§ 107. Governor may order out military. If it appears to the Governor,
that the power of a county will not be sufficient, to enable the sheriff thereof
to serve or execute the process or other mandates, delivered to him, he must,
on the application of the sheriff, order such a military force, from another
county or counties, as is necessary.
§ 108. Trial of claim of title by third person, to property seized by
sheriff. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] Where it is specially prescribed
by law, that a sheriff must, or may, in his discretion, empanel a jury to try
the validity of a claim or title to, or of the right of possession of goods or
effects, seized by him by virtue of a mandate in an action, interposed by a
person not a party to the action, the trial must be conducted in the following
manner, except as otherwise specially prescribed by law :
1. The sheriff must, from time to time, notify as many persons to attend,
as it is necessary, in order to form a jury of twelve persons, qualified to serve
as trial jurors in the county court of the county, or, in the city and county
of New York, in the court of common pleas for that city and county, to try
the validity of the claim.
2. Upon the trial, witnesses may be examined, in behalf of the claimant,
and of the party, at whose instance the property claimed was taken by the
sheriff. Fur the purpose of compelling a witness to attend and testify, the
sheriff, upon the application of either party to the inquisition, must issue a
subpoena, as prescribed in section eight hundred and fifty-four of this act,
and with like effect ; except that a warrant to apprehend or to commit a
witness, in a case specified in section eight hundred and fifty-five or section
eight hundred and fifty-six of this act, may be issued by a judge of the
court in which the action is brought, or by the county judge, or in the city
and county of New York, by a judge of the court of common pleas for that
city and county.
3. The sheriff or under-sheriff must preside upon the trial. A witness,
produced by either party, must be sworn by the presiding officer, and exam

ined orally in the presence of the jury. A witness, who testifies falsely upon
such an examination, is guilty of perjury in a like case, and is punishable
in like manner, as upon the trial of a civil action.
§ 109. Expenses, how.paid. Upon such a trial there are no costs ; but
'UuJ'.erTa^ the fees of the sheriff, jurors, and witnesses must be taxed, by a judge of
the court, or the county judge of the county, or, in the city and county of
New York, by a judge of the court of common pleas for that city and county,
and must be paid as follows :
1. If the jury, by their verdict, find the title, or the right of possession
to the property claimed, to be in the claimant; by the party at whose
instance the property was taken by the sheriff.
2. If they find adversely to the claimant, with respect to all the property
claimed ; by the claimant.
3. If they find the title or the right of possession to only a part of the
property claimed, to be in the claimant ; each party must pay his own wit
nesses' fees; and the sheriff's and jurors' fees must be paid, one-half by
each party to the inquisition.
Before notifying the jurors, the sheriff may, in his discretion, require each
of the parties to the controversy to deposit with him such reasonable sum,
as may be necessary to cover his legal fees, and the jurors' fees. The sheriff
must return to each party the balance of the sum so deposited by him, after
deducting the fees, lawfully chargeable to that party, as prescribed in this
section.


§ 110. Prisoner, how kept. A person arrested, by virtue of an order
of arrest, in an action or special proceeding brought in a court of record ; or
of an execution issued upon a judgment rendered in a court of record; or
surrendered in exoneration of his bail ; must be safely kept in custody, in
22

the manner prescribed by law, and, except as otherwise prescribed in the
next two sections, at his own expense, until he satisfies the judgment ren
dered against him, or is discharged according to law.
§ 111. [Repealed Ch. 405 op 1883.]
§ 112. Id. ; in other counties. In any county, if a prisoner actually
confined in jail makes oath before the sheriff, jailor or deputy-jailor, that he
is unable to support himself during his imprisonment, his support shall be a
county charge. [Am'd Ch. 405 op 1883.]
§ 113. Charges for food, etc., when prohibited. A sheriff or other
officer shall not charge a person, whom he has arrested, with any sum of
money, or demand, or receive from him money, or any valuable thing, for
any drink, victuals, or other thing, furnished or provided for the officer, or
for the prisoner at any tavern, ale-house, or public victualing or drinkinghouse.
§ 114. Also for waiting for prisoner. A sheriff or other officer shall
not demand or receive from a person, arrested by him, while in his custody,
a gratuity or reward, upon any pretense, for keeping the prisoner out of jail ;
for going with him or waiting
adversary ; or for any other purpose.
§ 115. Rates of charges for lodging, etc. If a person arrested is kept
in a house other than the jail of the county, the officer arresting him, or the
person in whose custody he is, shall not demand or receive from him any
greater sum, for lodging, drink, victuals, or any other thing, than has been
theretofore prescribed by the court of sessions of the county ; or, if no rate
has been prescribed by the court of sessions, than is allowed by a justice of
the peace of the same town or city, upon proof that the lodging or other
thing was actually furnished, at the request of the prisoner. And such an
officer or person shall not, in any case or upon any pretext, demand or receive
compensation for strong, spirituous, or fermented liquor, or wine, sold or
delivered to the prisoner.
§ 116. Prisoner may send for necessaries. A prisoner so kept in a
house, may send for and have beer, ale, cider, tea, coffee, milk, and neces
sary food, and such bedding, linen, and other necessary things, as he thinks
fit, from whom he pleases, without detention of the same or any part thereof
by, or paying for the same, or any part thereof to, the officer arresting him,
or the person in whose custody he is.
§ 117. Charges for rent, etc., prohibited. A sheriff, jailor, or other
officer, shall not demand or receive money, or any valuable thing, for cham
ber rent in a jail ; or any fee, compensation, or reward, for the commitment,
detaining in custody, release, or discharge of a prisoner, .other than the fees
expressly allowed therefore by law.

§ 118. Prisoner, how conveyed to jail through another county A
sheriff or other officer, who has lawfully arrested a prisoner, may convey his
prisoner through one or more other counties, in the ordinary route of travel,
from the place where the prisoner was arrested, to the place where he is to
be delivered or confined.
§ 1 19. Officer or prisoner not liable to arrest. A prisoner so con
veyed, or the officer having him in custody, is not liable to arrest in any
civil action or special proceeding, while passing through another county.

§ 120. Jail in New York city. The building, now used as a jail in the
city of New York, for the confinement of prisoners in civil causes, shall con
tinue to be the jail of the city and county of New York, for the confinement
of such persons ; and the sheriff of the city and county of New York shall
have the custody thereof, and of the prisoners in the same.
§ 121. Jails in other counties. The buildings, now used as the jails of
the other counties of the State, shall continue to be the jails of those coun
ties respectively, until other buildings have been designated or erected for
that purpose, according to law; and the sheriff of each county shall have
the custody of the jail or jails of his county, and of the prisoners in the
same.
§ 122. Either of several jails may be used. The sheriff of a county in
which there is more than one jail, may confine a prisoner in either; and
may remove him from one jail to another, within the county, whenever he
deems it necessary for his safe keeping, or for his appearance at court.
§ 123. Civil and criminal prisoners to be kept separate. A prisoner,
arrested in a civil cause must not be kept iu a room in which any prisoner,
detained on a criminal charge or conviction, is confined.

§ 124. Males and females to be kept separate. Male and female
prisoners must not be put iu the same room ; except that a husband and his
wife may be put or kept together, iu a room wherein there are no other
prisoners.
§ 125. Penalties. A sheriff", or other officer, who willfully violates any of
the foregoing provisions of this title, forfeits to the person aggrieved, treble
damages. He is also guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished accord
ingly. A conviction also operates as a forfeiture of his office.
§ 126. Jail physician. The board of supervisors of each county, except
New York, must appoint some reputable physician, duly authorized to prac
tice medicine, as the physician to the jail of the county. If there s more
than one jail they must appoint a physician to each. The common council
of the city of New York must appoint a similar physician, to the jail of that
city and county. The physician to a jail holds his office at the pleasure of
the board which appointed him, except iu the county of Kings. In that
county, the term of his office is three years.
§ 127. Removal of sick prisoners. If the physician to a jail, or, in case
of a vacancy, a physician acting as such, and the warden or jailor, certify in
writing', that a prisoner, confined in the jail in a civil cause, is in such a state
of bodily health, that his life will be endangered, unless he is removed to a
hospital for treatment, the county judge, or, in the city and county of New
York, one of the judges of the court of common pleas, must, upou application,
make an order, directing the removal of the prisoner to a hospital within the
county, designated by the judge ; or, if there is none, to such nearest hos
pital as the judge directs; that the prisoner be kept in the custody of the
chief officer of the hospital, until he has sufficiently recovered from his illness,
to be safely returned to the jail ; that the chief officer of the hospital then
notify the warden or jailor, and that the latter thereupon resume custody of
the prisoner. If the prisoner actually escapes, while going to, remaining at,
or returning from the hospital, a new execution may be issued against his
person, if he was in custody by virtue of an execution ; or, if he was in cus
tody by virtue of an order of arrest, a new order of arrest may be granted,
upon proof by affidavit of the facts specified in this section, without other
proof, and without an undertaking.
§ 128. Sale of liquor in jaila Strong, spirituous, or fermented liquor,
or wine, shall not, on any pretense, be sold within a building used and estab
lished as a jail. Spirituous, fermented or other liquor, except cider, and
that quality of beer called table-beer, shall not be brought into a jail for the
use of a person confined therein, without a written permit by the physician
to the jail, which must be delivered to and kept by the keeper thereof,
specifying the quantity and kind of liquor which may be furnished, the name
of the prisoner for whom, and the time during which the same may be fur
nished.
§ 129. Permit, when granted. Such a permit shall not be granted,
unless the physician is satisfied, that the liquor allowed to be furnished is
necessary for the health of the prisoner, for whose use it is permitted ; and
that fact must be stated in the permit.
§ 130. Penalties fcr violation A person who brings into or sells in a
jail, strong, spirituous, fermented, or other liquor, or wine, contrary to the
foregoing provisions of this article ; or a sheriff, keeper of a jail, assistantkeeper, or an officer, or person employed in or about a jail, who knowingly
suffers liquor or wine to be sold or used therein, contrary to this article, is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall l>e punished accordingly. A conviction
also operates as a forfeiture of his office.
§ 131. Service of papers on prisoner. A sheriff or jailor, upon whom
a paper in an action or special proceeding, directed to a prisoner in his cus
tody, is lawfully served, or to whom such a paper is delivered for a prisoner,
must, within two days thereafter, deliver the same to the prisoner, with a note
thereon of the time of the service thereof upon, or the receipt thereof by him.
For a neglect or violation of this section, the sheriff or jailor, guilty thereof,
is liable to the prisoner for all damages occasioned thereby.
§ 132. Sheriff to permit access for that purpose. Subject to reason
able regulations, which the sheriff may establish for that purpose, a sheriff,
jailor, or other officer, who has the custody of a prisoner, must permit such
access to him as is necessary, for the personal service of a paper in an action
or special proceeding, to which the prisoner is a party, and which must be
personally served.
§ 133. Prisoners under United States process. A sheriff must receive
into his jail and keep a prisoner, committed to the same, by virtue of civil
process issued by a court of record, instituted under the authority of the
United States, until he is discharged by the due course of the laws of the
United States, in the same manner as if he was committed by virtue of a
mandate in a civil action, issued from a court of the State. The sheriff may
receive, to his own use, the money payable by the United States for the use
of the jail.
§ 134. Sheriff answerable for their custody. A sheriff or jailor, to
whose jail a prisoner is committed, as prescribed in the last section, is an
swerable for his safe keeping, in the courts of the United States, according
to the laws thereof.
§ 135. When jail becomes unfit, etc., another to be designated.
[Amended by Ch. 4 If] op 1K77.] If there is no jail in a county ; or the jail
becomes unfit or unsafe for the confinement of some or all of the prisoners, or
is destroyed by fire or otherwise ; or if a pesfilential disease breaks out in
the jail, or in the vicinity of the jail, and the physician to the jail certifies
that it is likely to endanger the health of any or all of the prisoners in the
jail ; the county judge, or, in the city and county of New York, the chiefjudge of the court of common pleas, must, by an instrument in writing, filed
with the clerk of the county, designate another suitable place within the
county, or the jail of a contiguous county, for the confinement of some or all
of the prisoners, as the case requires. The place so designated thereupon
becomes, to all intents and purposes, except as otherwise prescribed in this

article, the jail of the county for which it has been so designated, and for the
purposes expressed in the instrument designating the same.
§ 136. Designation, how annulled. The designation may be modified
or revoked, by the judge making the same, by a like instrument in writing,
filed with the clerk of the county.
§ 137. Copy of designation to be served on the sheriff, etc. The
county clerk must serve a copy of the designation, duly certified by him,
under his official seal, on the sheriff and keeper of the jail of a contiguous
county so designated. The sheriff of that county must, upon the delivery of
the sheriff of the county for which the designation is made, receive into his
jail, and there safely keep, all persons who may be lawfully confined therein,
pursuant to this article ; and he is responsible for their safe keeping, as if
he was the sheriff of the county for which the designation is made.
§ 138. Prisoners already upon jail liberties. If a prisoner has been
admitted to the liberties of the jail of the county, for which the designation
is made, he must, notwithstanding, remain within those liberties ; but he
may be removed by the sheriff, to whom he has given bond for the liberties,
to the jail or other place so designated, and confined therein, in a ca-o,
where the sheriff might confine him in the jail of his own county.
§ 139. Jail liberties to prisoner, who becomes entitled thereto, before
removal If a person, who is arrested, before or after the designation, by
the sheriff of the county for which the designation is made, becomes entitled,
after the designation, and before his removal, to the liberties of the jail, he
must be admitted to the liberties of the jail of that county, as if the desig
nation had not been made ; but he may be removed by the sheriff to the
jail, or other place, so designated, and confined therein, in a case, where the
sheriff might confine him in the jail of his own county.
§ 140. Id ; to prisoners removed If a person confined in or removed
prescribed in this article,
becomes entitled to the liberties of the jail, the sheriff of that county must
admit him to the jail liberties, as if he had been originally arrested by that
sheriff, on a mandate directed to him.
§ 141. When designation to be revoked, etc. When a jail is erected
for the county, for whose use the designation was made, or its jail is ren
dered fit and safe for the confinement of prisoners, or the reason for the
designation of another jail or place has otherwise ceased to be operative, the
designation must be revoked, as prescribed in this article.
§ 142. Copy of revocation to be served on sheriff ; sheriff's duty
thereon The county clerk must immediately serve a copy of the revoca
tion, duly certified by him under his official seal, upon the sheriff of the
same county ; who must remove the prisoners belonging to his custody, and
confined without his county, to his proper jail. If a prisoner has been
admitted to the jail liberties in the other county, he must also be removed ;
and he is entitled to the liberties of the jail of the county, to which he is
removed, without a new bond, as if he had been originally admitted to the
jail liberties in that county ; and the bond given by him applies accordingly
to those liberties.
§ 143. Removal of prisoners in case of fire. If, by reason of a jail, or
a building near a jail, being on fire, there is reason to apprehend that some
or all of the prisoners confined in the jail, may be injured, or may escape,
the sheriff or keeper of the jail may, in his discretion, remove them to some
safe and convenient place, and there confine them, until they can be safely
returned to the jail ; or, if the jail is destroyed, or. so injured, that it is unlit
or unsafe for the confinement of the prisoners, until a designation is made,
as prescribed in section one hundred and thirty-five of this act.
8 144. What officer to act in case of absence, etc. If the county
judge, or the chief-judge of the court of common pleas for the city and
county of New York, is absent or unable to act, or if his office is vacant, a
designation, or the revocation or modification thereof, as prescribed in this
article, may be made, in any county, except New York, by the special
county judge or the district attorney, or in the city and county of New York,
by any judge of the court of common pleas.

§ 145. Jail liberties in certain counties. The following are the liberties
of the jail for each of the counties specified, to wit :
For the city and county of New York, the whole of that city and county.
For the county of Onondaga, the whole of the city of Syracuse.
For the county of Monroe, the whole of the city of Rochester.
For the county of Erie, the whole of the city of Buffalo.
For the county of Dutchess, the whole of the city of Poughkeepsie.
For the county of Kings, the whole of that county.
For the county of Albany, the whole of the city of Albany.
For the county of Jefferson, the whole of the city of Watertown.
For the county of Herkimer the whole of the village of Herkimer.
For the county of Rensselaer, the whole of the city of Troy.
§ 146. Id. ; in other counties. The liberties of the jail in each of the
other counties of the State, as heretofore established, shall continue to be
the liberties thereof, until they are altered, or new liberties are established,
as prescribed by law.
§ 147. Id. ; how laid out. Where the liberties of a jail are altered or
established, by resolution of the board of supervisors, as prescribed by law,
a space of ground, adjacent to the jail, and not exceeding five hundred acres
in quantity, must be laid out as the jail liberties, in a square or rectangle as
nearly as may be ; but a stream of water, canal, street, or highway, may bo
adopted as an exterior line, notwithstanding it is not in a straight line, or
is not at right angles with the other exterior line of the liberties. A reso
lution establishing or altering jail liberties, must contain a particular descrip
tion of their boundaries ; and as soon as may be after its adoption, the
boundaries must be designated by monuments, enclosures, posts, or other
visible and permanent marks, at the expense of the county.
§ 148. Copy to be kept posted in jail. The county clerk must, within
one week after a resolution of a board of supervisors, establishing or altering
jail liberties, has been filed in his office, deliver an exemplified copy thereof
to the keeper of the jail, who must keep the same exposed to public view, in
an open and public part of the jail, and exhibit it to each person admitted to
the liberties of the jail, at the time of his executing a bond for that purpose.
§ 149. Who admitted to liberties. A person in the custody of a sheriff,
by virtue of an order of arrest; or of an execution in a civil action; or in
consequence of a surrender in exoneration of his bail ; is entitled to be
admitted to the liberties of the jail upon executing a bond to the sheriff,
as prescribed in the next section.
§ 150. Bond to be executed by prisoner; its contents. The bond
must be executed by the prisoner and one or more sufficient sureties, resi
dents and householders or freeholders of the county, in a penalty at least
twice the sum in which the sheriff was required to hold the defendant to
bail, if he is in custody under an order of arrest, or has been surrendered
in exoneration of his bail, before judgment; or directed to be collected by
the execution, if he is in custody under an execution ; or remaining uncol
lected upon a judgment against him, if he has been surrendered after judg
ment, ; conditioned that the person so in custody shall remain a prisoner,
and shall not, at any time or in any manner, escape or go without the liber
ties of the jail until discharged by due course of law.
§151. For whom bond to be held. A bond so taken is held for the
indemnity of the sheriff taking it, and of the party at whose instance the
prisoner executing it is confined.
§ 152. Prisoner to be committed when surety is insufficient If a
sheriff, who has taken such a bond, discovers that a surety therein is insuf
ficient, he may commit the prisoner who executed it to close confinement in
the jail, until another bond, with good and sufficient sureties, is offered.
§ 153. Surrender of prisoner by his sureties. One or more of the sure
ties, in a bond given for the liberties of a jail, may surrender the principal,
at any time before judgment is rendered against them in an action or: the
bond ; but they are not exonerated thereby, from a liability incurred before
making the surrender.
§ 1 54. How surrender made. The surrender must be made as follows :
The surety or sureties making it must take the principal to the keeper of
the jail, who must, upon his or their written requisition to that effect, take
the principal into his custody, and indorse upon the bond given for the liber
ties, an acknowledgment of the surrender; and also, if required, give the
surety or sureties a certificate, acknowledging the surrender.
§ 155. What deemed and what not deemed an escape. The going
at large, within the liberties of the jail in which he is in custody, of a pris
oner who has executed such a bond, or of a prisoner who would be entitled
to the liberties upon executing such a bond, is not, an escape. But the going
at large, beyond the liberties, by a prisoner, without, the assent of the party
at whose instance lie is in custody, is an escape ; and the sheriff in whose
custody he was, has the same authority to pursue and retake him, as if he
had escaped from the jail. Such an escape forfeits the bond for the liber
ties, if any ; subject to the provisions of the next article of this title.
§ 156. When court may order indicted prisoner to be produced.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op lb77.] Where a person, who has been indicted
for a criminal offense, is held by a sheriff, by virtue of a mandate in a civil
action or special proceeding, the court, in which the indictment is pending,
may make an order, requiring the sheriff to bring him before the court;
whereupon the court may make such disposition of the prisoner, as to it
seems proper. The sheriff's fees and expenses, in so doing, are a county
charge of the county wherein the court is sitting.
§ 157. Prisoner committed for contempt. A prisoner, committed to
jail upon process for contempt, or committed for misconduct in a case pre
scribed by law, must be actually confined and detained within the jail, until
he is discharged by due course of law, or is removed to another jail or place
of confinement, in a case prescribed by law. A sheriff or keeper of a jail,
who suffers such a prisoner to go or bo at, large out of his jail, except by vir
tue of a writ of habeas corpus, or by the special direction of the court com
mitting him, or in a case specially prescribed by law ; is liable to the party
aggrieved, for his damages sustained thereby, and is guilty of a misde
meanor. If the commitment was for the non-payment of a sum of money,
the amount thereof, with interest, is the measure of damages.
§ 158. Sheriff's liability for escape. Where a prisoner, in a sheriff's
custody, goes or is at large beyond the liberties of the jail, without the assent
of the party at whose instance he is in custody, the sheriff is answerable
therefore, in an action against him, as follows:
1. If the prisoner was in custody by virtue of an order of arrest, or in con
sequence of a surrender in exoneration of his bail, before judgment, the
sheriff is answerable to the extent of the damages sustained by the plaintifff.
2. If the prisoner was in custody by virtue of any other mandate, or in
consequence of a surrender, in exoneration of his bail, after judgment, the
sheriff is answerable for the debt, damages, or sum or money, for which the
prisoner was committed.
§ 1 59. Penalty for connivance at escape, by a sheriff, etc. A sheriff
or other officer, who demands or receives a reward, gratuity, or other valuable
thing, to procure, assist', connive at, or permit an escape of a prisoner, in his
custody, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished accordingly. A
conviction also operates as a forfeiture of his office, and disqualifies him for
ever thereafter from holding the same.
ARTICLE FIFTH.
Action upon and Assignment of a Bond fob Jail Liberties.
Sbotcon 100.

Defence in action by sheriff on bond.
Judgment against sheriff to be evidence against sureties, etc
Summary judgment fur sheriff.
Requisites of application therefore.
Such judgment when stayed. Same; when vacated.
Judgment against sheriff is evidence of damages.
Assignment of bond.
Action on bond by assignee; damages recoverable.
Such assignment bars action against sheriff.
Defence in action by assignee.
Stay of proceedings where assignment is not taken
Defence of sheriff in action for escape.
§ 160. Defence in action by sheriff on bond. In an action brought by
a sheriff on a bond for the jail liberties, it is a defense, that the prisoner
voluntarily returned to the liberties of the jail from which he escaped, or
was recaptured by, or surrendered to the sheriff, from whose custody he
escaped, before the commencement of the action. The defendants may make
that or any other defense to the action, which might be made by the sheriff,
to an action against him for the escape.
§ 161. Judgment against sheriff to be evidence against sureties, eta
But if judgment has been rendered against the sheriff, in an action brought
for the escape, and due notice of the pendency of the action was given to
the prisoner and his sureties, to enable them to defend the same, the judg
ment against the sheriff is conclusive evidence of his right to recover against
the prisoner and his sureties, to whom the notice was given, as to any matter
which was or might have been controverted, in the action against the sheriff.
§ 162. Summary judgment for sheriff. In an action brought by a
sheriff on a bond for the jail liberties, if it appears to the court, upon a
motion made in behalf of the sheriff, that judgment has been rendered
against him, for the escape of the prisoner, and that due notice of the pen
dency of the action against him, was given to the prisoner and his sureties,
to enable them to defend the same, the court must order a summary judg
ment for the plaintifff; and judgment must be entered accordingly, with
costs.
§ 163. Requisites of application therefore. But to entitle a sheriff to
move for such a judgment, he must have served a copy of his complaint, and
given twenty days' notice of the motion.
§ 164. Such judgment when stayed. Id. ; when vacated. If it
appears, on the hearing of the motion, that the defendants have a meritorious
defense, which was not controverted in the action against the sheriff, and
which by law could not have been so controverted, the court may stay pro
ceedings on the judgment, with such limitations and upon such terms, as it
deems just, until a trial in the action ; but the judgment must stand as a
security for the sheriff. If the defense is established, the court must vacate
the judgment, and render judgment for the defendant.
§ 165. Judgment against sheriff is evidence of damages. In an action
brought by a sheriff on a bond for the jail liberties, a judgment against him
for the escape of the prisoner, is evidence of the damages sustained by him,
as if it had been collected ; and he may recover his reasonable attorney's and
counsel fees, and other expenses in defending the action against him, as part
of his damages.
§ 166. Assignment of bond. If a bond for the jail liberties is forfeited,
the party at whose instance the prisoner was confined, or, in case of his death,
his executor or administrator, is entitled to an assignment thereof; which
must be executed by the sheriff who took the bond, or, in case of a vacancy
in his office, by his under-sheriff, and acknowledged or proved, and certified,
in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county.
§ 167. Action on bond by assignee ; damages recoverable. The per
son to whom such an assignment has been made, may maintain an action on
the bond, as assignee of the sheriff taking the same, in a case where an
action might be maintained by the sheriff; and he may recover the same
damages for the breach of the condition, which he might have recovered in
an action against the sheriff, for the escape.
§ 168. Such assignment bars action against sheriff The acceptance of
an assignment of such a bond, is a bar to an action, by or in behalf of the
assignee, against the sheriff or other officer making the same, for an escape
by the prisoner executing the bond, amounting to a breach of the condition
thereof, unless the escape was with the assent of the sheriff or other officer.
§ 169. Defence in action by assignee. In an action brought by the
assignee of the bond, the defendant may make any defense, which he might
make, if the action was brought in the nann' and for the benefit of the
sheriff.
§ 170. Stay of proceedings where assignment is not taken. If the
person entitled to an assignment of a bond for the jail liberties, in lieu of
taking the same, brings an action against the sheriff for the escape, the court
may, except where the escape was made with the sheriff's assent, stay pro
ceedings upon a judgment recovered against the sheriff, with such limita
tions, and upon such terms as it deems just, until he has had a reasonable
time to prosecute the bond, and collect a judgment recovered thereon.
§ 171. Defence of sheriff in action for escape. In an action against a
sheriff or other officer, for the escape of a prisoner, it is a defense, that the
escape was without the assent of the defendant, and that at the commence
ment of the action, he had the prisoner within the liberties, either by his
voluntary return, or by recapture.
§ 172. Duties of coroner when sheriff is a party. In an action or
special proceeding, to which the sheriff of a county is a party, a coroner of
the same county has all the power, and is subject to all the duties of a sheriff,
in a cause to which the sheriff is not a party ; except as otherwise specially
prescribed by law.
§ 173. Any cne of the coroners may act. A mandate in a civil action
or special proceeding which must or may be executed by the coroners, or by
a coroner of a county, must be directed either to a particular coroner, or
generally to the coroners of that county. Where such a mandate is directed
generally to the coroners of a county, or requires them to do any act, it may
be executed, and a return thereto may be made and signed, by one of them ;
but such an act or return does not affect the others.
§ 174. Arrest of sheriff by coroner. Where a mandate, requiring the
arrest of the sheriff of the county, is directed to a coroner, he must execute
the same in the manner prescribed by law, with respect to the execution of
a similar mandate by a sheriff; and he is authorized to take an undertaking
on the arrest, or a bond for the jail liberties, to himself, in his name of office
in a like case, and in like manner, and with like effect as where such a bond
or undertaking may be taken by a sheriff.
§ 175. Sheriff ; how confined. Where the actual confinement of a sheriff
by a coroner, on a mandate, is required or authorized by law, he must be
confined by the coroner, in a house situated within the liberties of the jail
of the county, other than the sheriff's house or the jail, in the same manner
as a sheriff is required by law to confine a prisoner in the jail.
.
§ 176. Place of confinement to be deemed a jail. That house there
upon becomes the jail of the county, for the use of the coroner ; and each
provision of law relating to the jail, or to an escape from the jail, applies
thereto, while the sheriff is confined therein.
§ 177. Sheriff to be admitted to jail liberties; liability of coroner for
sheriff's escape. A sheriff so arrested must be admitted to the liberties of
the jail of the county, in a like case, and upon executing a like bond to the
coroner, as prescribed by law for a prisoner in the sheriff's custody. For an
escape of the sheriff from the liberties, the coroner is liable, in the same
manner, and to the same extent, as a sheriff for a similar escape ; and he
may make the same defense as a sheriff.
§ 178. Coroner may prosecute, etc., bond for liberties. The coroner
may prosecute a bond for the liberties taken by him, and is entitled to.all
the rights, and subject to all the liabilities, prescribed by law, with respect
to a similar bond taken by a sheriff. The bond may be assigned by him,
to the party at whose instance the sheriff was arrested ; and the same pro
ceedings may be had thereupon, as upon a bond taken and assigned by a
sheriff, in a similar case.
§ 179. Duties of coroner where sheriff is plaintifff. A person arrested
by a coroner, in an action or special proceeding, in which the sheriff of the
county is plaintifff, must be confined in the jail of the county, in a case where
such a confinement is required, or authorized by law ; but the coroner is not
liable for an escape of the prisoner from the jail, after he has been confined
therein. A person so confined must be kept and treated, in all respects, like
a prisoner confined by the sheriff.
§ 180. Such prisoner entitled to jail liberties, etc. A person so arrested
by a coroner, is entitled to be discharged, or the liberties of the jail, as the
case requires, upon giving a bond or an undertaking to the coroner, in the
like manner, and in a like case, in which a person arrested by a sheriff would
be entitled to be so discharged, or to the liberties. The bond or undertaking
so given, must be in all respects similar to that required to be given to a
sheriff; and it has the like effect, and may be assigned and proceeded upon
in like manner.
§ 181. Escape of such prisoner. A coroner is answerable for an escape
of a prisoner, admitted by him to the liberties of the jail, in the same manner
and to the same extent, as a sheriff, and may interpose a like defense.
Certificate to be furnished to new sheriff.
Powers of former sheriff ; when to cease.
Jails, proceas, etc., to be delivered to new sheriff.
Former sheriff to execute instrument.
Former sheriff to execute certain process.
Certain orders to be delivered to and returned by new sheriff.
Delivery of prisoners, process, etc., how enforcei
Under-sheriff, etc., when to comply with foregoing provisions.

§ 182. Certificate to be furnished to new sheriff "Where a new sheriff
has been elected or appointed, and has qualified and given the security
required by law, the clerk of the county must furnish to the new sheriff a
certificate, under his hand andofficial seal, stating that the person so appointed
or elected, has so qualified and given security.
§ 183. Powers of former sheriff ; when to cease. Upon the commence
ment of the new sheriffs term of office, and the service of the certificate on
the former sheriff, the latters powers as sheriff cease, except as otherwise
expressly prescribed by law.
§ 184. Jails, process, etc., to be delivered to new sheriff Within ten
days after the service of the certificate, upon the former sheriff, he must
deliver to his successor :
1. The jail, or if there are two or more, the jails of the county, with all
their appurtenances, and the property of the county therein.
2. All the prisoners then confined in the jail or jails.
3. All process, orders, commitments, and all other papers and documents,
authorizing, or relating to the confinement or custody of a prisoner, or, if
such a process, order, or commitment has been returned) a statement in writ
ing of the contents thereof, and when and where it was returned.
4. All mandates, then in his hands, except such as he has fully executed,
or has begun to execute, by the collection of money thereon, or by a seizure
of or levy on money or other property, in pursuance thereof.
§ 185. Former sheriff to execute instrument. At the time of the
delivery, the former sheriff must execute an instrument, reciting the prop
erty, documents, and prisoners delivered, specifying particularly the process
or other authority,.by which each prisoner was committed and is detained and
whether the same has been returned or is delivered to the now sheriff. The
instrument must be delivered to the new sheriff, who must acknowledge, in
writing, upon a duplicate thereof, the receipt of the property, documents and
prisoners, therein specified ; and deliver such duplicate and acknowledgment
to the former sheriff.
§ 186. Former sheriff to execute certain procesa Notwithstanding
the election or appointment of a new sheriff, the former sheriff must return,
in his own name, each mandate which he has fully executed , and must pro
ceed with and complete the execution of each mandate which he has begun
to execute, in the manner specified in suodiviaion fourth of the last section
but one.

§ 187. Certain orders to be delivered to and returned by new
sheriff Where a person, arrested by virtue of an order of arrest, is con
fined, either in jail, or to the liberties thereof, at the time of assigning and
delivering the jail to the new sheriff, the order, if it is not then returnable,
must be delivered to the new sheriff, and be returned by him at the return
day thereof, with the proceedings of the former sheriff and of the new
sheriff thereon.
§ 188. Delivery of prisoners, process, etc., how enforced If the
former sheriff neglects or refuses to deliver to his successor, the jail, or any
of the property, documents or prisoners in his charge, as prescribed in this
title, his successor must, notwithstanding, take possession of the jail, and of
the property of the county therein, and the custody of the prisoners therein
confined, and proceed to compel the delivery of the documents withheld as
prescribed by law.
§ 189. Under-sheriff, etc., when to comply with foregoing provisions.
If, at the time when a new sheriff qualifies, and gives the security required
by law, the office of the former sheriff is executed by his under-sheriff, or by
a coroner of the county, or a person specially authorized for that purpose, he
must comply with the provisions of this title, aud perform the duties thereby
required of the former sheriff.

§ 190. Cases in which court of appeals has jurisdiction. The court
of appeals has exclusive jurisdiction to review, upon appeal, every actual
determination, made at a general term, by the supreme court, or by either
of the snperior city courts, in either of the following cases, and no others:
1. "Where a final judgment has been rendered, in an action commenced in
either of those courts, or brought there from another court : and upon such
an appeal to review an interlocutory judgment or intermediate order, involv
ing the merits, and necessarily affecting the final judgment.
2. Where an order has been made in such an action, affecting a substan
tial right, and not resting in discretion, which either (first) in effect deter
mines the action, and prevents a final judgment, or (second) discontinues
the action, or, (third) grants or refuses a new trial, or (fourth) strikes out a
pleading, or part of a pleading, or (fifth) decides an interlocutory applica
tion, or a question of practice, or (sixth) determines a statutory provision of
the State to be unconstitutional, and the determination appears from the
reasons given for the decision, or is necessarily implied in the decision.
3. Where a final order, affecting a substantial right, has been made in a
special proceeding or upon a summary application in an action, after judg
ment ; and, upon such an appeal, to review any intermediate order, involv
ing the merits, and necessarily affecting the order appealed from.
4. When an interlocutory judgment has been entered on the decision of a demur
rer, provided that the appeal shall be taken within sixty days after the service on
the attorney for the appellant, of a copy of the judgment and notice of the entry
thereof, and provided also that, excepting in the case of appeals now pending, the
general term shall certify that in its opinion the question arising therein is of suffi
cient importance to render a decision by the court of appeals desirable before pro
ceeding farther. [Added Ch. 61 op 1882.]
[§ 2.] So much of the provisions of the subdivisum hereby added to said section
one hundred and ninety as precedes the second proviso thereof, shall apply to ap
peals already pending in the court of appeals, as well as to those which may here
after be brought, excepting that so much of said subdivision as limits the time for
the taking of said appeals shall not be applicable to appeals already pending. [Id.]
§ 191. Exceptions and qualifications. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
But, the jurisdiction, conferred by the last section, is subject to the following
limitations, exceptions, and conditions :
1. An appeal cannot be taken, from an order granting a new trial, on a
case or exceptions, unless the notice of appeal contains an assent, on the
part of the appellant, that if the order is allirmed, judgment absolute shall
be rendered against the appellant,
2. An appeal cannot be taken, in an action commenced in a court of a
justice of the peace, or in the marine court of the city of New York, or in a
district court of that city, or in the city court of Yonkers, or in a justices'
court of a city, unless ihe court below allows the appeal, by an order made
at the general term which rendered the determination, or at the next gen
eral term after judgment is entered thereupon. An action discontinued
because the answer set forth matter showing that the title to real property
came in question, and afterwards prosecuted in another court, is not deemed
to have been commenced in the court wherein the answer was interposed,
within the meaning of this subdivision.
3. An appeal cannot be taken from a judgment, or from an order grant
ing or refusing a new trial, except in an action or special proceeding affect
ing the title to real property, or an interest therein, if the matter in contro
versy, excluding costs, is less than five hundred dollars ; unless the court
below, by an order made at the general term which rendered the determina
tion, or at the next general term after judgment is entered thereupon, allows
the appeal, on the ground that a question of law is involved, which ought to
be reviewed by the court of appeals.
If an appeal is taken, by the plaintifff, from a judgment rendered in an
action not founded upon a contract, the sum for which the complaint
demands judgment, or, if the action is to recover one or more chattels, the
value of the chattels, as stated in the complaint, is deemed to be the
amount of the matter in controversy, within the last subdivision, unless
the defendant has interposed a counterclaim ; in which case the counter
claim must be included, in determining the amount in controversy.
§ 192. Appeals from certain orders, how heard An appeal from an
order, under subdivision second of the last section but one, except an order
which in effect determines the action and prevents a final judgment, or dis
continues the action, or grants or refuses a new trial upon a case or excep
tions, may be noticed for hearing on a motion day, and heard as a motion.
§ 193. Court may make rules. The court may from time to time make,
alter, and amend, rules, not inconsistent with the Constitution or statutes of
the State, regulating the practice and proceedings in the court, and the
admission of attorneys and counsellors at law, to practice in all the courts
of record of the State.
§ 194. Remittitur ; when judgment absolute to be rendered, and
proceedings thereupon. The judgment or order of the court of appeals
must be remitted to the court' below, to be enforced according to law. Upon
an appeal from an order granting a new trial, on a case or exceptions, if the
court of appeals determines that no error was committed in granting the
new trial, it must render judgment absolute upon the right of the appel
lant; and after its judgment has been remitted to the court below, an
assessment of damages, or any other proceeding, requisite to render the
judgment effectual, may be had in the latter court.
§ 195. Second and subsequent appeals. Upon a second and each sub
sequent appeal, including a case where a former appeal has been dismissed
for a defect or irregularity, the time of filing the return, upon the first
appeal; determines the place of the cause upon the calendar.
§ 196. Times and places of holding terms. The terms of the court of
appeals must be appointed to be held, at such times and places as the court
thinks proper, and continued as long as the public interest requires.
§ 1 97. Court may be held in any building ; adjournments. A term
of the court may' be appointed to be held in a building, other than that
designated by law for holding courts. A term may be adjourned from the
place where it is appointed to be held, to another place in the same city.
One or more of the judges may adjourn a term, without day, or to a day
certain.
§ 198. Officers to be appointed by court The court may, from time
to time, by an order entered in its minutes, appoint and remove its clerk,
its reporter, and such attendants as it deems necessary.
Clerk of the court of appeals to give bonds ; rooms for his office.
To appoint a deputy. Powers of deputy.
May employ assistants in his office. Special deputy.
Is successor of former clerk of court of appeals.
Money in custody of clerk to be deposited in bank.
Clerk to report to court of appeal1! concerning' money.
Amount deposited to be certified by cashier.
Court may order money to be invested ; restrictions as to drawing- money
from bank.
207. Court may appoint person to examine accounts.
208. Court may make rules concerning money.
J 199. Clerk of the court of appeals to give bond ; rooms for his
ce. The clerk of the court of appeals, before entering upon the duties
of his office, must subscribe and file the Constitutional oath of office, and
must execute and file in the Comptroller's office a bond to the people of the
State, in the penalty of twenty-five thousand dollars, with two sufficient
sureties, approved by the Comptroller and conditioned for the faithful per
formance of the duties of his office. If the bond is forfeited by a breach
of its condition, the court of appeals must, by order, direct an action to be
brought thereon. The money recovered must be applied, under the direc
tion of the court of appeals, to indemnify the persons aggrieved by the
breach, in proportion to their respective losses, and to make good any other
loss, occasioned by the breach. The clerk must keep his office at the city of
Albany, and the trustees of the State Hall must assign him suitable rooms
therein for that purpose.
§ 200. To appoint a deputy. Powers of deputy. The clerk, by a
writing, under his hand and the seal of the court, filed in his office, from
time to time must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a deputy-clerk, who
is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. Before
entering upon his duties, the deputy-clerk must subscribe and file in the
clerk's office the Constitutional oath of office. While the clerk is absent from
his office, or from the sitting of the court, or the office of clerk is vacant, the
deputy-clerk has all the powers and is subject to all the duties of the clerk.
§ 201. May employ assistants in bis office. Special deputy.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The clerk may, with the approbation of
the * in writing of the judges of the court or a majority of them, employ as
many assistants in his office as are necessary. He may from time to time
appoint, and at pleasure remove, his assistants. Each assistant is entitled
to a compensation, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. The clerk
may appoint one of his assistants as special deputy-clerk, who possesses, in
the absence of the clerk and the deputy-clerk, the same power and authority
as the clerk at any sitting of the court which he attends, with respect to the
business transacted thereat.
§ 202. Is successor of former clerk of court of appeals. All money,
stocks, securities, bonds, mortgages and other things in action, and other
property, which were possessed by the last clerk of the court of appeals,
elected by the people by virtue of his office, have been transferred to, and
have become possessed by and vested in, the clerk appointed by the court,
as the successor in office of the last elected clerk, notwithstanding the change
in the mode of appointment to the office and in the tenure thereof.
§ 203. Money in custody of clerk to be deposited in bank. All
money now in the custody or under the control of the clerk, and all other
money which may hereafter be paid to or received by him on account of a
fund, or in a cause, must be deposited, until invested as prescribed in this
article, in such bank or banks as the court of appeals directs. Accounts
thereof must be kept with the banks in manner and form as the court directs.
§ 204. Clerk to report to court of appeals, concerning money. On
the first Tuesday of January, and on the first Tuesday of July in each year,
the clerk must transmit to the chief-judge a statement, verified by his affi
davit, of all money then remaining in court or in his hands, which must
specify :
1. The fund or the title of the cause in or on account of which each sum
of money was paid.
2. The party by whom it was paid, and generally for what purpose.
3. The time of payment and the amount paid.
4. The bank in which it is deposited.
§ 205. Amount deposited to be certified by cashier. The statement
must be accompanied with a certificate of the ca.-shier of each bank in which
a deposit is stated to have been made, to the effect that the total amount
stated to be deposited is actually in the bank, placed to the credit of the
clerk, as clerk of the court of appeals, and not mingled with any other
account.
§ 206. Court may order money to be invested ; restrictions as to
drawing money from bank. The court may, by order, direct any portion
of the money to be invested in the public debt of the State, or of the United
States, or in approved interest-bearing mortgages upon real property. It
may in like manner direct any sum of money, or any security, to be trans
* So in the original.
ferred or disposed of, as the court thinks proper. The clerk shall not invest
any money, except pursuant to such a direction. Money deposited shall not
be drawn from the bank, except on a check, signed by the clerk and coun
tersigned by the chief-judge, or, in his absence, by an associate judge of the
court.
§ 207. Court may appoint person to examine accounts. The court
may also, from time to time, appoint a suitable person to examine the accounts
kept by, and the securities in the custody of the clerk, who shall be paid by
the Comptroller for that service a reasonable sum, certified by the chief-judge.
§ 208. Court may make rules concerning money. The court may
also, from time to time, make such regulations concerning the money and
securities specified in this article, making deposits, keeping accounts and
drawing money, as it deems proper ; but each regulation so made must be
entered in the minutes.

State reporter is the reporter of court of appeals.
His duty.
Not to be interested in publication j contracts for publication.
Copyright of reports.
Secretary of State to distribute reports.
Unreported decisions, etc., to be delivered by reporter to successor.
Opinions, etc., not to be delivered, except, etc.
Certain opinions to be deposited with clerk.

§ 209. State reporter is the reporter of the court of appeals. The
reporter appointed by the court of appeals is styled the State reporter ; and
each provision of a statute, wherein the State reporter is mentioned, applies
to the officer thus appointed.
§ 210. His duty. The State reporter must report every cause determined
in the court of appeals, which the court directs him, or which the public
interest in his judgment, requires him to report. To enable hini to perform
that duty, the judges of the court must deliver to him the written opinions,
rendered in each cause so determined. Each decision of the court, which is
reported, must be so reported as soon as practicable after it is made ; and if
the reporter neglects faithfully to perform that duty, it is the duty of the
court to remove him from office.
§ 211. Not to be interested in publication ; contracts for publica
tion. The State reporter shall not have any pecuniary interest in the reports ;
but a contract for the publication thereof, under his supervision, must, from
time to time, be made, in behalf of the people, by the State reporter, Secretary
of State, and Comptroller, with the person or persons who agree to furnish to the
Secretary of State, so many copies of each volume, as may Ixj needed to
enable him to comply with the next section but one ; and also to publish and
sell the reports, on terms the most advantageous to the public, regard being
had to the proper execution of the work, and at a price not exceeding three
dollars for a volume of not less than five hundred pages. Each contract, so
entered into, must provide for the publication of the reports, for three years
from the expiration of the time specified for that purpose in the last contract.
If the State reporter, Secretary of State, and Comptroller unite in determin
ing, that a contract has not been faithfully kept by the person or persons
agreeing so to publish the reports, they may, by an instrument in writing
under their hands, filed in the office of the Secretary of State, annul the
same from a time specified in the instrument; and thereupon they may
enter into a new contract, for the publication of the reports, for three years
from the time so specified. Before entering into a contract, the State repor
ter, Secretary of State, and Comptroller must advertise for, receive, and
consider proposals for the publication of the reports.
§ 212. Copyright of reports. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Neither
State reporter nor any other person shall obtain a copyright for the
opinions contained in the reports ; and the same may be published by any
person. But the copyright of the statements of facts, of the head-notes, and
of all other notes or references, prepared by the State reporter, must be taken
by, and shall be vested in the Secretary of State, for the benefit of the people
of the State
§ 213. Secretary of State to distribute reports. Of the copies of each
volume of the reports, furnished to the Secretary of State, he must deliver
one to the clerk of each county, for the use of the county, and deposit one in
the office of the attorney-general, one with the clerk of the court of appeals,
for the use of that court, and three in the State libraiy.
§ 214. Unreported decisions, etc., to be delivered by reporter to
successor. A State reporter must, on the appointment of his successor,
deliver to him all papers in his hands, pertaining to a cause which he has
not reported, or which are not necessary to be retained by him, to complete
the publication of a volume, which is then partly printed.
§ 215. Opinions, etc., not to be delivered, except, etc. A State
reporter, after the expiration of his term of office, shall not deliver a paper
specified in the last section, or a copy thereof, to any person other than his
successor in office, or the publisher of a partly printed volume ; except that
a copy of such a paper may be furnished by him, during a vacancy in the
office, to a judge of the court, or to the attorney for a party to the cause to
which it relates
§ 216. Certain opinions to be deposited with clerk. The State reporter
must deposit with the clerk of the court, all opinions delivered to him, which
are not to be reported, immediately after the publication of the reports of
the other cases, decided at the same time. They must be properly filed
and preserved, by the clerk.
The supreme court, including the circuit courts.
Article 1. Jurisdiction and powers ; designations of terras ; distribution of business among'
the terms and judges ; attendants upon the sittings ; miscellaneous provisions.
2. The supreme court reporter.
3. Stenographers.
Jurisdiction and Powers ; Designation of Terms ; Distribution op Business among thb
Terms and Judges ; Attendants upon the Sittings ; Miscellaneous Provisions.
Section 217. General jurisdiction of supreme court.
218. Supreme court may change place of trial of actions pending in other court.
Judicial departments ; general terms.
Presiding and associate justices ; how long to act.
Vacancies; how tilled.
Assignment of duties to Justice whose designation is revoked.
Designation, etc., to be filed with Secretary of State.
Presiding and associate justices may act out of their departments
Times and places of holding general terms ; how appointed.
Appointment to be published.
Appointment may be made or filed after the prescribed time.
When associate justice to preside, etc.
Justice in place of one disqualified.
General tei-m, held by two justices. Re-argument, etc.
When cause to bo heard in another department.
Appointments of special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer and
terminer.
Publication of appointments.
Governor may appoint extraordinary terms ; justices to hold them.
General powers and duties of justices.
Governor may appoint in New York city, judge of other court to hold termsGovernor to designate justices to hold courts in certain cases.
Place of holding the terms.
Special terms adjourned to chambers ; trials thereat,
Judges of superior court of Buffalo may make orders.
What judges may perform duties of justice at chambers.
Ofticei's required to attend general term. Sheriff's duty.
Fees of such officers ; how paid.

§ 217. General jurisdiction of supreme court. The general jurisdic
tion in law and equity, which the supreme court of the State possesses,
under the provisions of the Constitution, includes all the jurisdiction, which
was possessed and exercised by the supreme court of the colony of New
York, at any time, and by the court of chancery in England, on the fourth
day of July, seventeen hundred and seventy-six ; with the exceptions, addi
tions, and limitations, created and imposed by the Constitution and laws
of the State. Subject to those exceptions and limitations, the supreme court
of the State has all the powers and authority of each of those courts, and
exercises the same in like manner.
§ 218. Supreme court may change place of trial of actions pending
in other courts. The supreme court, upon the application of either party,
may, and, in a proper case, must make an order, directing that an issue of
fact, joined in an action or special proceeding, pending in any other court
of record, except a superior city court, the marine court of the city of New
York, or a county court, be tried at a circuit court in another county, on
such terms, and under such regulations as it deems just ; and thereupon
the issue must be tried accordingly. After the trial, the clerk of the county,
in which it has taken place, must certify the minutes thereof; which must
be filed with the clerk of the court, in which the action or special proceeding
is pending. The subsequent proceedings in the last mentioned court must
be the same, as if the issue had been tried therein
§ 219. Judicial departments ; general terms. The departments, into
which the State is divided, for the purposes of organizing and holding gen
eral terms of the supreme court, are styled, in this act, judicial departments.
There is a general term of the supreme court in each judicial department,
composed of a presiding justice and two associate justices, designated from
the whole bench of justices of the supreme court, as prescribed in the next
two sections. The justices so designated are styled in this act, general term
justices.
Stricken out by cb. 418 of 1W7.
§ 220. Presiding and associate justices ; how long to act. A presid
ing justice shall act as such, during his official term as a justice of the
supreme court, and as associate justice for five years from the thirty-first
day of December, next after his designation ; or until the earlier close of his
official term. But the Governor may, at any time, upon the written request
of a general term justice, revoke his designation.
§ 221. Vacancies, how filled. Within three months before a vacancy is
to occur by lapse of time, or as soon after its occurrence as practicable, the
Governor must designate, from the whole bench of justices of the supreme
court, another presiding or associate justice, as the case requires. The per
son so designated shall act as presiding or associate justice, for the period
(specified in the last section. When a vacancy occurs, for any cause except
lapse of time, the Governor must designate a presiding or associate justice,
as the case requires. An associate justice, thus designated, shall act for his
predecessor's unexpired time, or until the earlier close of his official term.
§ 222. Assignment of duties to justice whose designation is revoked
Where the governor revokes the designation of a general term justice, as
prescribed in the last section but one, he may prescribe the duties to be per
formed by that justice, in holding court in any part of the State, from the
time of such revocation until the taking effect of the next appointment of
terms, as prescribed in section two hundred and thirty-two of this act. for the
judicial department to which that justice belongs.
§ 223. Designation, etc., to be filed with Secretary of State. A
designation of a general term justice, or a revocation thereof, must be in
writing, and filed in the office of the Secretary of State. The request of the
justice whose designation is revoked, must be filed with the revocation.
§ 224. Presiding and associate justices may act out of their depart
ments. A presiding justice, designated for a judicial department, may
preside at a general term, held in another department, if the presiding j ustice
of that department is absent, or disqualified from acting ; and an associate
justice may act as such, at a general term held in another department, in
place of an associate justice of that department, who is in like manner absent
or disqualified.
§ 225. Times and places of holding general terms ; how appointed
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] On or before the first day of December, in
the year eighteen hundred and seventy-eight, and each second year there
after, the general term justices iu each judicial department, or a majority of
them, must appoint the times and places for holding the general terms of the
supreme court, within their judicial department, for two years from the first
day of January, for the year then next following. They must so disignate
at least one general term in each year, to be held in each of the judicial
districts composing the department.
§ 226. Appointment to be published An appointment so made must
be signed by the justices making it, and filed on or before the fifteenth day
of December of the same year, in the office of the Secretary of State ; who
must immediately thereafter publish a copy thereof in the newspaper printed
at Albany, in which legal notices are required to be published, at least once
in each week, for four successive weeks. The expense of the publication is
payable out of the treasury of the State.
§ 227. Appointment maybe made or filed after the prescribed time.
If an appointment of general terms is not made or filed before the expiration
of the time specified therefore in the last two sections, it may be made or
filed at the earliest convenient time thereafter ; and the terms appointed
thereby may be held pursuant to the same, after it has been published for
the length of time, prescribed in the last section.
§ 228. When associate justice to preside, etc. If a presiding justice
is not present at the time and place appointed for holding a general term,
the associate justice present having the shortest time to serve, or if two are
present, who have the same time to serve, the elder of them must act as pre
siding justice until a presiding justice attend. If only one general term
justice is present, he may select one or two justices of the supreme court, to
hold with him the general term until two general term justices attend. If
only two general term justices are present, they may select a justice of the supreme
court to hold general term with them. [Am'd Ch. 426 op 1881.]
§ 229. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
§ 230. General term held by two justices A general term may be
held by two justices; and the concurrence of two justices is necessary to
pronounce a decision. If two do not concur, a re-argument must bo ordered.
§ 231. Re-argument, etc. When cause to be heard in another
department. Where an order for a re-argument has been made, as
prescribed in the last section, and one of the general term justices of
that judicial department is not qualified to sit in the cause, the order
directing the re-argument may, in the discretion of the general term, direct
it to take place, and the cause to be decided, in another judicial department,
specified in the order. And where two of the general term justices, in a
department, are not qualified to sit in a cause, to be heard at the general
term of that department, an order may be made, upon notice, by the other
general term justice, or at a special term of the court held in that depart
ment, directing that the cause be heard and decided in another judicial
department, specified in the order. But this section does not prevent the
cause from being heard and decided, in the same judicial department, by
two qualified justices, if an order, directing the same to be heard and decided
in another department, has not been made.
§ 232. Appointments of special terms, circuit courts, and courts of
oyer and terminer. On or before the first day of December, in the year
eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, and every second year thereafter, the
justices of the supreme court, for each judicial department, or a majority of
them, must appoint the times and places for holding the special terms of the
supreme court, and terms of the circuit courts and courts of oyer and terminer,
within their department, for two years from the first day of January of the
next year following. If, for any reason, such an appointment is not made
before 1 ho ex iratiou of the time so specified, it must be made at the earliest
convenient time thereafter. At least one special term of the supreme court,
and two terms of the circuit court, and of the court of oyer and terminer,
must be appointed to be held in each year, in each county separately organ
ized. Two or more terms of the circuit court may be appointed to be held,
and may be held, at the same time, in the city and county of New York.
§ 233. Publication of appointments. An appointment so made must
be signed by the justices making it, and immediately filed in the office of
the Secretary of State, who must publish a copy thereof in the newspaper,
printed at Albany, in which legal notices are required to be published, at
least once in each week, for three successive weeks, before the holding of a
term in pursuance thereof. The expense of the publication is payable out
of the treasury of the State.
§ 234. Governor may appoint extraordinary terms ; justices to hold
them The Governor may, when, in his opinion, the public interest so
requires, appoint one or more extraordinary general or special terms of the
supreme court, or terms of a circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer. He
must designate the time and place of holding the same, and name the justice
who shall hold, or preside at each term, except a general term ; and he must
give notice of the appointment, in such manner as, in his judgment, the
public interest requires.
§ 235. General powers and duties of justices. Any justice of the
supreme court has power to sit at a general term, or to hold a special term
of the supreme court, or a term of the circuit court, or to preside at a term
of the court of oyer and terminer, for the whole or any portion of the term ;
and to act upon any business, which regularly comes before the term in
which he is sitting ; except where he is personally disqualified from sitting,
in a particular action or special proceeding. Each justice must, at all reason
able times, when not engaged in holding court, transact such judicial busi
ness as may be done out of court.
§ 236. Governor may appoint in New York city, judge of other
court to hold terms. [Amended by Ch. 369 op 1880.] The Governor may,
when in his opinion, the public interest so requires, designate one or more
judges of the superior court of the city of New York, or of the court of com
mon pleas for the city and county of New York, to hold terms of the circuit
court, and special terms of the supreme court, in that city. The designation
must be in writing, and must specify each 1erm, and the judge designated
to hold the same. A case or exceptions, in a cause tried at such a term,
must be settled before the judge who held the same ; and a judge thus desig
nated may, after the expiration of the period of such designation, decide,
finally determine and dispose of any action, proceeding or motion that may
have been tried or heard before him; and such judge, during the period of"
such designation, possesses, within the city of New York, all the powers of
a justice of the supreme court in or out of court, to make orders in any action
or special proceeding in the supreme court.
§ 237. Governor to designate justices to hold courts in certain cases.
If a general or special term of the supreme court, or a term of the circuit
court, or court of oyer and terminer, duly appointed, is in danger of failing,
the Governor may designate one or more justices of the supreme court, as
the case requires, to preside at the term of the court of oyer and terminer,
or to hold the term of the supreme court, or circuit court in the absence of
the justice or justices appointed to preside at or hold the same.
§ 238. Place of holding the ter:r,s. The place appointed within each
county, for holding a special term of the supreme court, at which issues of
fact are triable, or a term of the circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer,
must be that designated by statute, for holding the county or circuit court.
§ 239. Special terms adjourned to chambers ; trials thereat. A
special term of the supreme court may be adjourned to a future day, and to
the chambers of any justice of the court, residing within the judicial dis
trict, by an entry in the minutes; and then adjourned from time to time, as
the justice holding the same directs. An action triable by the court, with
out a jury, which was upon the calendar of the term before it was adjourned,
may be tried at a term so adjourned, and held at chambers, by consent of
both parties, but not otherwise. In that case, the attendance of the clerk,
the sheriff, the crier, or a constable, is not required, unless the justice directs
one or more of those officers to attend.
§ 240. Judges of superior court of Buffalo may make orders. Each
judge of the superior court of Buffalo may, within that city, make an order
SUPREME COURT REPORTER.
in an action or special proceeding, pending in the supreme court, which a
justice of the supreme court may make, out of court,
§ 241. What judges may perform duties of justice at chambers. A
judge of a superior city court, within his city, and a county judge, within
his county, possesses, and upon proper application must exercise, the power
conferred by law, in general language, upon an officer authorized to per
form the duties of a justice of the supreme court at chambers, or out of court.
§ 242. Officers required to attend general term. Sheriff's duty.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877, and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] A general
term must be attended by the sheriff of the county in which it is held, his
under-sheriff, or one of his deputies ; by two constables or police officers,
notified by the sheriff; by a crier for courts within the county; and by the
county clerk, or his deputy, or special deputy ; all of whom must act under
the direction of the court, or of the presiding justice. The sheriff of the
county must cause the room in which the general term is held to be properly
heated, ventilated, lighted and kept comfortably clean and in order. The
court may enforce the performance of that duty by the sheriff. The sheriff
must also provide the court with all necessary stationery, and minutes-books,
upon the written requisition of the court or of the justice presiding at the
term.
§ 243. Fees of such officers ; how paid The fees of a crier, a sheriff,
a constable, or a police officer, for attending a general term, and all expenses
incurred by a sheriff, in obedience to the last section, must be audited by
the Comptroller, and paid out of the treasury of the State. The fees and
proper charges of the clerk, for services rendered at or preparatory to a gen
eral term, and not legally chargeable to an attorney or a party are a county
charge.
Designation of supreme court reporter.
Term of office ; how appointed and removed.
Meeting' for appointment.
Special meeting' for appointment or removal.
Papers and opinions to be furnished to the reporter.
Duty of reporter ; no salary to be paid to him.
Price of the volumes of reports.
§ 244. Designation of supreme court reporter. The reporter of the
decisions of the supreme court is styled the supreme court reporter ; and
each provision of a statute, wherein the supreme court reporter is mentioned,
applies to that officer.
§ 245. Term of office ; how appointed and removed The term of
office of the supreme court reporter is five years from the time of his appoint
ment, and until his successor is appointed and qualifies. He must be
appointed and may be removed, for cause, by the general term justices of
the supreme court, or a majority of such of them as attend at a convention,
held as prescribed in the next two sections. An appointment or removal
must be in writing ; it must be signed by the justices making it, and filed
in the office of the Secretary of State ; otherwise it is of no effect.
§ 246. Meeting for appointment [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The
general term justices of the supreme court must meet in convention, at the
capitol in the city of Albany, at noon of the day when the term of office of
the supreme court reporter expires, for the purpose of appointing a supreme
court reporter in his place. If that day is Sunday or a public holiday, the
convention must be held at the same time and place, on the first day there
after not being Sunday or a public holiday. If an appointment is not made
at such a meeting, it may be made at a special meeting of the convention,
held as prescribed in the next section. The supreme court reporter may be
removed at such a special meeting.
§ 247. Special meeting for appointment or removal A special meet
ing of the convention, for the appointment or removal of a supreme court
reporter, must be held at the capitol in the city of Albany ; but it may be
adjourned to any other place. It may be called by a presiding justice, by
written or printed notice stating the object of the meeting, and served, per
sonally or through the post-office, upon each of the general term justices, at
least two weeks before the time appointed therefore. If the object of the
meeting is to consider the question of the removal of the supreme court
reporter, the notice must be accompanied with a copy of the grounds,
alleged for the removal ; and both must be served upon the supreme court
reporter, personally, or by leaving them at his last place of residence, with
some person of suitable age and discretion, at least ten days before the time
appointed for the meeting.
§ 248. Papers and opinions to be furnished to the reporter. In each
cause heard, at a general term of the supreme court, the attorney or counsel
for each party must deliver to the clerk, for the use of the supreme court
reporter, a duplicate of each paper furnished by him for the use of the court.
The clerk must collect those papers from the counsel ; and immediately after
the adjournment of the term, he must transmit them, and certified copies of
all the decisions, made at that term, to the supreme court reporter, at the
latter's expense. Each judge who renders a written opinion in a cause
decided at a general term, must transmit it, or a certified copy thereof, to
the supreme court reporter, who must pay the expense of transmission, and
also, where a copy is transmitted, the expense of copying, not exceeding
eight cents for each folio.
§ 249. Duty of reporter ; no salary to be paid to him. The supreme
court reporter is not entitled to a salary. He must report and publish such
of the decisions at the general or special terms of the court, as he deems it
for the public interest to have reported. He must also report and publish
the decision in a particular cause, which the court, at a general or special
term, specially directs him to report. Not more than three volumes of his
reports shall be pnblished in any one year. He must prepare for each vol
ume, and cause to be published therewith, the usual digest, head notes,
tables of contents, and index.
§ 250. Price of the volumes of reports The supreme court reporter
must cause the reports, published as prescribed in the last section, to be kept
constantly for sale to persons within the State, at a price not exceeding two
dollars and fifty cents, for a volume of not less than seven hundred pages.
ARTICLE THIRn
Stenographers.
Seotioh 251. Stenographers in first district.
252. Stenographer for extra terms in New-York city.
253. Stenographers for oyer and terminer in New-York city.
Stenographer in Kings county.
His assistant.
Stenographers in other counties of second judicial district.
Their salaries; how paid.
Stenographei-s for the remaining districts.
Their salaries ; how paid.
Their expenses ; how paid.
Additional stenographer when two courts held at the same time.
Temporary stenographer.
§ 251. Stenographers in first district [Amended by Ch. 54 op 1880.] The
justices of the supreme court for the first judicial district, or a majority of them,
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove a stenographer for each term of the
circuit court, for the general term of the supreme court, and for each special
term of the supreme court, which constitutes a separate part. Each
stenographer so appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid
as prescribed by law ; he must attend all the sittings of the part, for which
he is appointed. If the judge requires a copy of any proceedings, written
out at length from stenographic notes, he may make an order, directing
one-half of the stenographers fees therefore, to be paid by each of the parties
to the action or special proceeding at the rate of ten cents for each folio so
written out, and may enforce payment thereof. Any such copy shall be
accessible to and may be examined by any of the counsel in the cause. If there
are two or more parties on the same side, the order may direct either of
them to pay the sum payable by their side, for the stenographer's fees ; or
it may apportion the payment thereof among them, as the judge deems just.
[Am'd Ch. 4 op 1883.]
§ 252. Stenographers for extra terms in New York city. The judge
who holds, in the first judicial district, an extraordinary term of the circuit
court, or an extraordinary special term of the supreme court, must appoint a
stenographer for that term,' who is entitled to a compensation, at the rate and
in the manner prescribed by law for the official stenographer.
§ 253. Stenographers for oyer and terminer in New York city. The
judge presiding at a term of the court of oyer and terminer, held in and for
the city and county of New York, must designate a stenographer of the
supreme court, to act as stenographer for that term during its sitting, who
is not entitled to any compensation in addition to his salary ; except that, if
a copy of any proceedings, written out at length from the stenographic notes,
is required for the use of the presiding judge or the district-attorney, the
stenographer's fees therefore are payable, on his certificate, as a county charge.
§ 254. Stenographer in Kings county. The justices of the supreme
court for the second judicial district, residing in the county of Kings, or a
majority of them, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer,
to be attached to the supreme court, circuit court, and court of oyer and ter
miner, in and for the county of Kings. The stenographer so appointed is
entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must
attend each term of the supreme court, at which issues of fact are triable,
and each term of the circuit court and court of oyer and terminer, held in
the county of Kings.
§ 255. His assistant The stenographer, appointed as prescribed in the
last section, may. with the consent of the judge holding or presiding at a
special term of the supreme court,, or term of the circuit court, or court of
oyer and terminer, employ an assistant-stenographer, to aid him in the dis
charge of his duties at, that term, whose compensation must be paid by the
stenographer, and shall not become a county charge.
§ 256. Stenographers in other counties of second judicial district
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Each justice of the supreme court for the
second judicial district, who does not reside in the county of Kings, must
appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer, who must attend, as
directed by the justice appointing him, the general and special terms of the
supreme court, and the terms of the circuit court and court of oyer and ter
miner, held in the counties of Suffolk, Queens, Richmond, Westchester, Rock
land, Putnam, Dutchess, or Orange, and, when not thus officially engaged,
the stated terms of the county court, in each of those counties.
§ 257. Their salaries ; how paid. Each stenographer, appointed as
prescribed in the last section, is entitled to a salary fixed by law. To
make up and pay the salaries, the board of supervisors of each of the said
counties must annually levy, and cause to be collected, as a county charge,
a proportionate part of the sum necessary to pay the same, to be fixed by
the Comptroller of the State, in accordance with the amount of the taxable
real and personal property in each county, as shown by the last annual
assessment-roll therein. The treasurer of each county must pay over the sum
so raised, to the Comptroller of the State, who must thereupon pay the salary
of each stenographer, in equal quarterly payments, under the direction of the
§ 258. Stenographers for the remaining districts. The justices of the
supreme court, or a majority of them, for each judicial district of the State,
except the first and second, must appoint and may at pleasure remove a
stenographer of the supreme court in that district. The justices of the
supreme court for the third judicial district, or a majority of them, the jus
tices of the supreme court of the fifth judicial district, or a majority of them, the
justices of the supreme court for the sixth judicial district, or a majority of
them, and tlie justices of the supreme court for the eighth judicial district, or a
majority of them, may, in their discretion, appoint, and at pleasure remove,
two additional stenographers of the supreme court for their respective dis
tricts. Each stenographer so appointed is entitled to a salary fixed by law,
to be paid as prescribed in the next section, and must attend within the
judicial district the terms of the circuit courts and courts of oyer and ter
miner, and the special terms of the supreme court where issues of fact are
triable as directed by the justices, or a majority of the justices of the district for
which he was appointed. [Am'd Chs. 174 of 1882, and 217 of 1883.]
§ 259. Their salaries ; how paid. The clerk of the county, in which a
term of a court specified in the last section, is held, must furnish the
stenographer attending the same, with a certificate of the number of days
the term has been in session. Upon the certificates so furnished, the
supreme court, at a special term thereof held within the judicial district,
may, not oftener than once in six months, by order apportion to each county
in the district, such a proportion of the stenographer's salary, as the number
of days during which one or more terms were in session in that county, bears
to the whole number of days, during which the terms were in session in that
district, since the last apportionment was made Upon the presentation of
a certified copy of such an order, each county treasurer must pay to the ste
nographer, from the court fund, or the fund from which jurors are paid, the
sum so apportioned to his county.
§ 26 I. Their expenses ; how paid. Each of those stenographers is also
entitled to payment of his actual and necessary expenses, while attending
court, including stationery, and ten cents for each mile for his actual travel,
between the place of holding each term and his residence, going and return
ing, or from term to term, as the case may be. The amount thereof must be
certified by the jud.se holding or presiding at the term, and must be paid,
upon his certificate, by the treasurer of the county where the term is held
from the court fund, or the fund from which jurors are paid. But mileage
shall not be computed beyond the bounds of the judicial district, except
where the usual line of travel, from one point to another within that district,
passes partly through another judicial district.
[4]
§ 261. Additional stenographer when two courts held at the same
time. Where two or more terms, at which the stenographer would be
required to attend by the provisions of section two hundred and fifty-eight
of this act, are appointed to be held at the same time, the justices of the
supreme court, assigned to hold or preside at the same, may designate the
term at which the stenographer for the district must attend, and may employ
an additional stenographer to attend each other term. In that case, they
must, by a certificate signed by them, fix a reasonable sum for the payment
of his services and actual necessary expenses, to and from, and while attend
ing the term The sum 60 fixed must be paid by the treasurer of the county,
upon the certificate, from the court fund, or the fund from which jurors are
paid ; and the number of days, during which that -term was in session, shall
not be taken into account, in making an apportionment of salary, as pre
scribed in section two hundred and fifty nine of this act.
§ 262. Temporary stenographer. "Where an official stenographer, or his
assistant, is not in attendance, at a term of the circuit court, or court of oyer
and terminer, or at a special term of the supreme court, where issues of fact
are triable, the judge holding or presiding at the term, may, in his discre
tion, employ a stenographer, who must be paid such a compensation, as the
judge fixes by his certificate, not exceeding ten dollars for each day's attend
ance, and ten cents for each mile, for travel to and from his residence, to the
place where the term is held, together with a reasonable sum for stationery.
The sum so fixed is a charge upon the county, in which the term is held,
and the county treasurer must pay it, upon the judge's certificate, from the
court fund, or the fund from which jurors are paid. If it was the duty of an
official stenographer, or his assistant, to attend the term, and it docs not
appear to the satisfaction of the judge, that the failure to attend was excus
able, the judge may, in his discretion, during or after the adjournment of
the term, make an order that the sum so paid, or any part thereof be
deducted from the salary of the official stenographer, and that the county
have such credit therefore, as justice requires. Such an order maybe revoked
by the judge who made it, upon proof by affidavit, that the failure to attend
was excusable.
General jurisdiction of the superior city courts.
Domestic corporations, etc., when deemed residents, etc.
Where there are two or more defendants.
Jurisdiction to be presumed ; want of jurisdiction matter of defense.
Jurisdiction, etc., to be co-extensive with that of the supreme court.
Id. ; in special proceedings out of court.
Actions, etc., may be removed into supreme court.
Where, and in what cases, order for removal to be granted.
Appeal from order of removal.
Order to slay proceedings to procure removal.
Removal to supreme court, when judges of city court cannot act.
Removal from supreme court to city court, by consent.
Duty of clerks when removal made.
Removal not to affect validity of former proceedings, etc.
When county judge may make order.
Power to send process to any county.
.
Proceedings commenced before one judge may be continued before another.
Appointment of terms, etc.
General terms by whom held, etc.
Id. ; special and trial terms.
New records, etc., in place of those mutilated or injured.
Clerks and deputy clerks.
Special deputy clerks.

§ 263. General jurisdiction of the superior city courts. The civil
jurisdiction of each of the superior city courts extends to the following
actions and special proceedings, in addition to the jurisdiction, power
and authority conferred upon it, in a particular case, by special statutory
provision :
1. To an action of ejectment; for the partition of real property; for dower;
to foreclose a mortgage upon real property or upon a chattel real; to compel
the determination of a claim to real property; for waste; for a nuisance; or
to procure a judgment directing a conveyance of real property; and to every
other action to recover, or to procure a judgment, establishing, determining,
defining, forfeiting, annulling or otherwise affecting an estate, right, title,
lien or other interest in real property or a chattel real. But jurisdiction
attaches under this subdivision only where the real property to which the
action relates is situated within the city where the court is located.
2. To an action for any other cause, where the cause of action arose within
that city ; or where the defendant is a resident of that city ; or where the
summons is personally served ujion the defendant therein ; or where the action
is brought to recover a penalty, or for any other cause of action given by the
charter, a by-law or an ordinance of that city.
3. To an action to recover damages for an injury to real property, or a
chattel real; or for the breach of a contract, express or implied, relating to
real property or a chattel real, where the real property is situated within
that city, or where the defendant is a resident of that city, or where the
summons is personally served upon the defendant therein.
4. To an action to recover a chattel ; to foreclose or enforce a lien upon
personal property; or to recover damages for an injury to personal property,
where the property to which the action relates is situated within that city
at the time when the action is commenced. If the property consists of one
or more shares in the capital stock of a domestic corporation or joint-stock
association, whose principal place of business is located or established within
that city, or of a debt due from, or money, or a thing in action, in the pos
session or under the control of, such a corporation or joint-stock association,
it is deemed to be situated within that city, within the meaning of this
subdivision.
5. To a judgment creditor's action, where the judgment upon which the
action is founded was recovered in the same court.
6. To an action for any cause brought by a resident of the city wherein
the court is located, against a natural person, who is not a resident of the
State.
7. To an action brought by a resident of that city against a foreign cor
poration, either (one) to recover damages for the breach of a contract, express
or implied, or a sum payable by the terms of a contract, express or implied,
where the contract was made, executed or delivered within the State, or
where the cause of action arose within the State; or (two) where a warrant of
attachment, granted in the ac'ion, has been actually levied, within that city,
upon property of the corporation; or (three) where the summons is served by
delivery of a copy thereof, within that city, to an officer of the corporation,
as prescribed by law.
8. To the custody of the person and the care of the property, concurrently
with the supreme court, of a person residing in that city, or residing without
the State and sojourning in that city, who is incompetent to manage his affairs
by reason of lunacy, idiocy or habitual drunkenness ; and to any special
proceeding which the supreme court has jurisdiction to entertain, for the
appointment of a committee of the person or of the property of such an incom
petent person, or for the sale or other disposition of the real property, situated
within that city, of a person, wherever resident, who is so incompetent, or
who is an infant; or for the sale or other disposition of the property, or the
voluntary dissolution of a domestic corporation, whose principal place of busi
ness is located or established within that city; or for the sale or other dispo
sition of the real property, situated within that city, of a domestic corporation,
wherever it is located.
9. To any other special proceeding which the supreme court has jurisdiction
to entertain, where thp person against whom it is brought is a resident of that
city, or the mandate by which the special proceeding is commenced is per
sonally served upon him within that city, or all the acts or omissions upon
which it is founded were done or committed within that city, or the subject
thereof is situated within that city; or where the special proceeding is
brought for such a purpose, or under such circumstances that the superior
city court would have jurisdiction of an action for the like purpose, or under
the like circumstances, by the terms of subdivision first of this section.
•
§ 264. Domestic corporations, etc., when deemed residents, etc. For
the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of a superior city court, in a case
specified in the last section, a domestic corporation or joint stock association,
whose principal place of business is established, by or pursuant to a statute,
or by its articles of association, or is actually located, within the city wherein
the court is located, is deemed a resident of that city ; and personal service
of a summons, made within that city, as prescribed, in this act, or personal
service of a mandate, whereby a special proceeding is commenced, made
within that city, as prescribed in this act for personal service of a summons,
is sufficient service thereof upon a domestic corporation, wherever it is located.
§ 265. Where there are two or more defendants. Where an action or
special proceeding is brought against two or more parties, and the jurisdic
tion of a superior city court depends upon the residence of a party, within
the city wherein the court is located; or personal service upon him, within
that city, of the summons or the mandate for the commencement of the spe
cial proceeding ; or the levying of a wan-ant of attachment within that city;
and jurisdiction is thus acquired as against one or more, but not as against
all of them, the jurisdiction, with respect to the others, is governed by the
following rules :
L Where the action or special proceeding is founded upon a contract, upon
which two or more persons are jointly liable, and the court has or acquires
jurisdiction thereof, as against one of them, it has jurisdiction thereof as
against all the persons so jointly liable. But this subdivision does not extend
to a case, where the liability is several, as well as joint.
2. Where an action or a special proceeding brought against a public officer,
together with one or more private persons, is founded upon an official act or
omission ; or where an action or a special proceeding brought against a cor
poration, together with one or more natural persons, is founded upon an act
or omission of the corporation ; and the court has or acquires jurisdiction
thereof, as against the public officer or the corporation ; it has jurisdiction
thereof as against all persons, who are necessary parties to the complete
determination of the controversy.
3. Where it is not necessary to the complete determination of the contro
versy, that all the parties thereto should be subjected to the jurisdiction of
the court, the action or special proceeding may be discontinued or dismissed,
as to the parties over whom the court has not jurisdiction, and proceed as to
the others, as if they were the only parties against whom it was brought.
§ 266. Jurisdiction to be presumed ; want of jurisdiction matter of
defense. The jurisdiction of a superior city court, in an action or a special
proceeding brought therein, must always be presumed. It is not necessary
to set forth in a complaint in such an action, or in the petition or other jtatement of the case in such a special proceeding, any of the jurisdictional facts
specified in section tw hundred and sixty-three of this act ; and where the
defendant in the action, or the person against whom the special proceeding
is instituted, appears, the want of jurisdiction, by reason of the non-exist
ence of any of those facts, is matter of defense, and is waived by the appear
ance, unless it is pleaded in defense.
§ 267. Jurisdiction, etc., to be co-extensive with that of supreme
court Where a superior city court has jurisdiction of an action or special
proceeding, it possesses the same jurisdiction, authority, and power, in and
over the same, and in the course of the proceedings therein, which the
supreme court possesses in a like case ; and it may render any judgment or
grant either party any relief, which the supreme court might render or grant
in a like case, and may enforce its mandates in like manner as the supreme
court. And each judge of the superior city court possesses the same power
and authority, in the action or special proceeding, which a justice of the
supreme court possesses, in a like action or special proceeding, brought in
the supreme court.
§ 268. Id. ; in special proceedings out of court Each judge of a
superior city court also possesses the same power and authority, in a special
proceeding, which can be lawfully instituted before him, out of court, which
a justice of the supreme court possesses in a like special proceeding, insti
tuted before him in like manner.
§ 269. Actions, etc., may be removed into supreme court. The
supreme court may, by an order, made at any time after joinder of an issue
of fact, and before the trial thereof, remove to itself an action or a special
proceeding pending in a superior city court, for the purpose of changing the
place of trial or hearing thereof. Where an order for a removal is made, as
prescribed in this section, the place of trial or hearing must be changed by
the same order to another county. A certified copy of the order must be
filed in the office of the clerk of the court, in which the action or special pro
ceeding was commenced. Thereupon it is removed into the supreme court ;
and the subsequent proceedings therein must be the same, as if it had been
originally brought in the supreme court.
§ 270. Where and in what cases, order for removal to be granted.
An order for the removal of an action or special proceeding, as prescribed in
the last section, can be made only upon notice, and by a special term of the
supreme court, where the motion might be made, if the action or special
proceeding was pending in the supreme court, and brought in the county
where the superior city court is located ; and hi a case, where an order,
changing in like manner the place of trial or hearing, would be granted,
if the action or special proceeding was pending in the supreme court.
§ 271. Appeal from order of removal. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877-1
An appeal from an order, made upon such a motion, must be taken and heard
in like manner, as if the action or special proceeding was pending in the
supreme court, and triable in the county from which the place of trial is
changed. Such an appeal brings up to the general term, and thence to the
court of appeals, if the order is appealable to that court, all questions which
were before the special term, and the appellate tribunal must dispose of the
same, as if they were originally presented to it.
§ 272. Order to stay proceedings to procure removal. An order to
stay proceedings, for the purpose of affording an opportunity to make such
an application for removal, may be made by a judge, authorized to make an
order to stay proceedings, either in the court where the action or special
proceeding is pending, or in the supreme court, and with like effect, and
under like circumstances.
§ 273. Removal to supreme court, when judge of city court cannot
act If all the judges of a superior city court are, for any reason, incapable
of sitting upon the trial of an action, or the hearing of a special proceeding
pending. therein, or if all, or all but one, of the judges of a superior city
court are incapable of sitting upon the hearing of an appeal therein, the
judges of the court, or a majority of them, must make and file in the office
of the clerk of the court, a certificate of the fact. Thereupon the action or
special proceeding is removed to the supreme court ; and the subsequent
proceedings therein must be the same as if it had been originally brought
in the supreme court.
§ 274. Removal from supreme court to city court, by consent. The
supreme court, where the parties manifest in writing their consent, must
make an order directing that an action or special proceeding, pending in
that court, and triable in a county where a superior city court is located, be
removed to the superior city court, or, in the city of Jsew York, to either of
those courts therein, as specified in the consent. A certified copy of the
order must be filed in the office of the clerk of the court to which the action
or special proceeding is ordered to be removed. Thereupon it is removed
accordingly ; and all subsequent proceedings therein must be the same as if
it had been originally brought in the superior city court.
§ 275. Duty of clerks when removal made. Where an action or special
proceeding is removed from one court to another, as prescribed in this article,
the clerk of the court from which it is removed must forthwith deliver to the
clerk of the court to which it is removed all papers filed therein, and certified
copies of all minutes and entries relating thereto, which must be filed, entered,
or recorded, as the case requires, in the office of the last-mentioned clerk. If
the action or special proceeding is removed to the supreme court, and the
place of trial or hearing changed, the delivery must be made to the clerk of
the county in which the order of removal directs the trial or hearing to be had.
§ 276. Removal not to affect validity of former proceedings, etc.
The removal of an action or special proceeding, as prescribed in this arti
cle, does not invalidate or in any manner impair, a process, provisional rem
edy, or other proceeding, or a bond, undertaking, or recognizance, in the
action or special proceeding so removed, each of which continues to have the
same validity and effect as if the removal had not been made. Where bail
has been given, the surrender of the defendant in the court to which the
action or special proceeding was removed, has the same effect as a surrender
in the court from which it was removed would have had if the action or special
proceeding had remained therein.
§ 277. When county judge may make order. In an action or special
proceeding brought in a superior city court, an order may be made without
notice, or an order to stay proceedings may be made upon notice by the county
judge of the county where the court is situated, or of the county where the
attorney for the applicant resides, in a case where a judge of the superior
city court might make the same out of court, and with like effect.
§ 278. Power to send process to any county. A superior city court has
power, in an action or special proceeding of which it has jurisdiction, to send
its process and other mandates into any county of the State, for service or
execution, and to enforce obedience thereto, with like power and authority as
the supreme court.
S 279. Proceedings commenced before one judge may be continued
belFore another. A special proceeding, instituted before a judge of the
superior court of Buffalo, or the city court of Brooklyn, or a proceeding com
menced before a judge of either of those courts, out of court, in an action or
special proceeding pending in his court, may be continued, from time to
time, before one or more other judges of the same court, as prescribed by law,
with respect to like proceedings, before a judge of a court of record in the
city of New York.
§ 280. Appointment of terms, etc. The judges of each superior city
court, or a majority of them, must, from time to time, appoint the times for
holding the general, special and trial terms of their court. They must also
assign the judges to hold each of the terms, and designate the trial terms at
which issues of fact are triable by a jury. A general, a special, and one or
more trial terms, may be appointed to be held, and may be held, at the same
time. The judges, or a majority of them, must also appoint reasonable times,
when a judge must attend at chambers, and designate the judge to attend
for that purpose. Each appointment, made as prescribed in this section,
must be signed by the judges making the same, and filed in the clerk's office.
A copy thereof must be published in the newspaper printed in Albany, in
which legal notices are required to be published, and in two newspapers
printed in the city where the court is located, at least once in each week for
three successive weeks, before a term is held by virtue thereof.
§ 281. General terms, by whom held, etc. A general term of a superior
city court must be held by at least two judges. Two must concur to deter
mine a cause ; otherwise, it must be reheard ; except that if the remaining
judge or judges are disqualified to sit upon an appeal, the judgment or order
appealed from must be affirmed, unless a rehearing is directed.
§ 282. Id. ; special and trial terms. A special term or a trial term of a
superior city court must be held by one judge.
§ 283. New records, etc., in place of those mutilated or injured.
When the chief-judge of a superior city court certifies, that a book of minutes,
records, indices, or dockets of judgments, in the office of the clerk of the
court, has become so mutilated or injured, that it cannot be conveniently
used or correctly examined, the clerk of the court must cause a copy thereof
to be made. The expense of making the copy, not exceeding ten cents for
each folio, is a charge, in the city of New York, upon that city, and, in the
city of Buffalo, or the city of Brooklyn, upon the county where the court is
located ; and it must be paid by the comptroller of the city of New York, or
the county treasurer, as the case requires, upon the certificate of the clerk,
i
that the copy was made pursuant to his direction. The copy, when certified
J by the clerk to be a correct copy of the original, has, presumptively, the
f effect of the original. The original must be preserved, and may be referred
f to at any time, by the direction of a judge of the court.
§ 284. Clerks and deputy clerks. Each superior city court has a clerk,
who is appointed, and may be removed at pleasure, by the judges of the
court, or a majority of them. Each clerk, by a writing under his hand and
the seal of the court, filed in his office, must appoint, and may at pleasure
remove, a deputy-clerk. The deputy-clerk has all the powers, and may
perform all the duties of the clerk, when the office of clerk is vacant, or at
the clerk's office, when the clerk is absent therefrom, or at a term or sitting
of the court, which the deputy-clerk attends. Each clerk and each deputyclerk must subscribe, and file in the clerk's office, the Constitutional oath of
office ; and is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
§ 285. Special deputy-clerks. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] A special
deputy-clerk of a superior city court, appointed as prescribed by law, possesses
the same powers as the clerk, at a sitting or term of the court which he
attends, with respect to the business transacted thereat.
Special jurisdiction of the common pleas.
Each court to consist of six judges ; chief-judge.
Assistance, etc., in clerks' offices.
Stenographers.
Stenographer for extra term.
Criers.
§ 286. Special jurisdiction of the common pleas. [Amended by Ch.
418 op 1877.] In addition to the jurisdiction defined in sections two hun
dred and sixty-three, two hundred and sixty-four and two hundred and
sixty-five of this act, the court of common pleas for the city and county of
New York, has power and jurisdiction to vacate and set aside a judgment,
entered in any court held within that city and county, upon a forfeited
recognizance, upon the terms and conditions specially prescribed by law for
that purpose ; to remit a fine or forfeited recognizance, in a case where a
county court can' remit the same, and in like manner ; and to entertain any
special proceeding, which, in any county except New York, may be insti
tuted in the county court.
§ 287. Each court to consist of six judges ; chief-judge. The court
of common picas for the city and county of New York, and the superior court
of the city of New York, consist of six judges for each court ; one of whom
must, from time to time, as a vacancy occurs, be appointed chief-judge of hia
court, as prescribed in the Constitution.

§ 288. Assistants, etc., in clerks' offices. The clerk of each of those
courts may appoint and at pleasure remove, such special deputy-clerks and
other assistants, as he deems necessary ; but a special deputy-clerk or an
assistant, so appointed, is not entitled to any compensation out of the treas
ury of the city of New York, unless his compensation is fixed by law, or
allowed pursuant to law.
§ 280. Stenographers. The judges of each of those courts, or a majority
of them, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer for each
term of the court, for the trial of issues of fact, constituting a distinct part.
Each stenographer so ajipointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid
as prescribed by law. He must attend all the sittings of the part for which
he is appointed. If the judge requires a copy of any proceedings, written
out at length from the stenographic notes, he may make an order directing
one-half of the stenographer's fees therefore, to be paid by each of the parties
to the action or special proceeding, at the rate of ten cents for each folio so
written out, and may enforce payment thereof. If there are two or more
parties on the same side, the order may direct either of them to pay the
sum payable by their side, for the stenographer's fees, or it may apportion
the payment thereof among them, as the judge deems just.
8 290. Stenographer for extra term. The judge who holds an extra
ordinary trial term of either of those courts must appoint a stenographer
for that term, who is subject to all the provisions of law relating to an assist
ant stenographer, and is entitled to a compensation, at the rate and in the
manner prescribed, by law for the official stenographer.
§ 291. Criers. The judges of each of those courts, or a majority of them,
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, one crier for their court. Each
crier so appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed
by law. He is not entitled to any other compensation.
Additional jurisdiction.
Id. ; in special pi-oceedings.
Exclusive powers in ci.'rtain cases.
Court to consist of three judges ; chief-judge.
Number of general and trial terms.
Demurrei'S to be tried at general term.
Clerk may charge fees.
Deputy-clerk and special deputy-clerk.
Stenographer.
Crier.
Sheriff, constables, etc., to attend court; special powers in contempt cases,
etc.
Assessors to return jury list.
Drawing trial jurors.
Notifying trial jurors ; their fees. .
,-Additional jurors may be ordered.

§ 292. Additional jurisdiction. In addition to the jurisdiction defined
in sections two hundred and sixty-three, two hundred and sixty-four, and
two hundred and sixty-five of this act, the jurisdiction of the superior court
of Buffalo extends to the following actions and special proceedings.
1. To an action founded upon a contract, where the defendant, or, if there
are two or more defendants, where either of them, is a resident of that city,
or occupies a tenement, for the transaction of his or their ordinary business,
in that city ; or where the summons is served upon either of them in that
city ; or where the contract was made in that city.
2. To an action for any other cause, where the defendant, or, if there are
two or more defendants, where all the defendants proceeded against, occupy
a tenement in that city, for the transaction of their ordinary business.
3. To an action to recover damages against one or more common carriers,
not being residents of the State, where the defendant, or, if there are two
or more defendants jointly liable, where one of them has property in that
city.
4. To an action against a domestic corporation, which transacts its general
business in that city, or has an office or agency in that city, for the transac
tion of business ; or against a foreign corporation, which has property in
that city, or an agency therein.
5. To an action or special proceeding against the city of Buffalo, or an
officer thereof.
§ 293. Id. ; in special proceedings. The court also possesses and exer
cises, within the city of Buffalo, in any matter which arises, or the subject
whereof is located or situated within that city, jurisdiction, power and
authority, concurrent and co-extensive with those conferred upon the
supreme court, in a like case, by any statutory provision.
§ 294. exclusive powers in certain cases. The court also possesses
exclusive jurisdiction and power as follows :
1. Where an action, commenced in a justice's court in the city of Buffalo,
has been discontinued upon the delivery of an undertaking, because the
title to real property came in question, it possesses exclusive jurisdiction of
an action for the same cause, brought pursuant to the undertaking.
2. It has exclusive power to remit a fine imposed or a recognizance
estreated by it.
§ 295. Court to consist of three judges ; chief-judge. The court con
sists of three judges; one of whom must, from time to time, as a vacancy
occurs, be appointed chief-judge, as prescribed in the Constitution.
§ 296. General and trial terms. At least four general terms and six
trial terms of the court must be appointed to be held in each year.
§ 297. To be tried at general term. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877,
and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] An issue of law in an action in the court must
be tried at the general term.
§ 298. Clerk may charge fees. The clerk of the court is entitled, in
addition to his salary, for any service performed by him, to the fee allowed
by law to a county clerk, for a similar service, performed in the supreme
court, or the court of oyer and terminer.
§ 299. Deputy-clerk and special deputy-clerk. "Where the deputyclerk of the court dies, resigns, removes from the city, is removed from
office, or becomes otherwise incapable of acting, the clerk must appoint
a deputy-clerk in his place. The clerk, if the judges of the court, or a
majority of them, deem it necessary for the proper transaction of its busi
ness, from time to time must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, in the
manner prescribed by law for the appointment and removal of a deputyclerk, a special deputy-clerk, whose compensation must be paid by the clerk.
§ 300. Stenographer. The judges of the court, or a majority of them,
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer of the court, who
is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must
attend each term of the court, where issues of fact in civil or criminal causes
are triable. If the judge requires a copy of any proceedings, written out at
length from the stenographic notes, he may make an order directing the
stenographer's fees therefore, at the rate of six cents for each folio so written
out, to be paid as follows :
1. In a civil action or special proceeding, by the party entitled to costs
upon the verdict, decision or report ; who may tax the sum paid therefore, as
a disbursement.
2. In a criminal action or special proceeding, by the county treasurer of
Erie county, as a county charge. But, in such a case, the judge may fix such
a sum, not exceeding the rate specified in this section, as he deems proper.
§ 301. Crier. The judges, or a majority of them, from time to time must
appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a crier for the court, who is entitled
to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He is not entitled
to any other compensation.
§ 302. Sheriff; constables, etc., to attend court ; special powers in
contempt cases, etc. The sheriff of the county of Erie, or his under-sheriff,
or a deputy-sheriff, designated by him, and as many policemen of the city
of Buffalo, as the court directs, must attend each term of the court. A
policeman, in attendance upon a term of the court, may, under the direction
of the judge presiding at or holding the term, notify talesman or additional
jurors, and execute a mandate of the court, issued in a case of contempt,
with like effect and in like manner as if he was the sheriff. But a policeman
is not entitled to any fees, or other compensation, except his salary, for a
service performed by him, as prescribed in this section.
§ 303. Jurors in Buffalo. [Amended by Ch. 445 op 1880.] The assessors
of the city of Buffalo and the clerk of the court must, in the month of May in
each year, meet at the assessor's office and make out, certify and file in the
clerk's office, a list of not less than six hundred residents of that city, not
exempt from jury duty, and qualified to serve as trial jurors in the court.
The persons named in such list must be selected from those assessed on the
last annual ward assessment rolls of the city, and in making such selection
they shall take the names of such only as are :
1. Male inhabitants of the city.
2. Of the age of twenty-one years or upward, and under sixty years old.
3. Who are at the time assessed for personal property belonging to them
in their own right, to the amount of two hundred and fifty dollars, or who
shall have a freehold estate in real property, in the county, belonging to
them in their own right, or in the right of their wives, to the value of one
hundred and fifty dollars.
4. In the possession of their natural faculties, and not infirm or decrepid.
5. Free from all legal exceptions; of fair character; of approved integrity;
of sound judgment and well informed. The court, at any term thereof, may,
from time to time, make an order directing the assessors and the clerk of the
court to meet and to make out, certify and file in the clerk's office, within a time
specified in the order, a new list of jurors, or a list of any number of additional
jurors ; and it may punish an omission to obey such an order as a contempt.
§ 304. Drawing trial jurors. At least fourteen days before the time ap
pointed for holding a term of the court, where issues of fact in civil or criminal
causes are triable, the clerk of the court, in the presence of a judge thereof,
must draw from the list so returned by the assessors, the names of thirty-six
persons, or such other number as the court, at any term thereof, directs, to
serve as trial jurors. The drawing must be conducted as prescribed by law,
for the drawing of trial jurors by a county clerk, except that notice thereof is
not necessary. A list of the numes of the persons drawn must be certified
by the clerk and attending judge, and delivered to the sheriff of Erie county.
§ 305. Notifying trial jurors ; their fees. The sheriff must thereupon
notify each of the persons so drawn, as prescribed by law for notifying a juror
drawn to attend a term of the circuit court. Before the first day of the term,
the sheriff must file the list w ith the clerk, accompanied with his return, speci
fying who were notified, and the manner in which each person was notified.
The clerk must make the same disposition of the ballots, containing the
names of the jurors who have served, of those who did not appear, and of
those who were discharged, as prescribed by law, with respect to the circuit
court. Each juror, attending a term of the court, must be paid by the county
of Erie, the same compensation as a juror attending the circuit court.
§ 306. Additional jurors may be ordered. At a term where issues of
fact, in civil or criminal causes, are triable, the court may, in its discretion,
direct additional jurors to be drawn from any list returned by the assessors,
and require the sheriff, or a policeman in attendance upon the term, forth
with to notify them to attend ; and if a person so drawn cannot be found,
the court may cause his name to be returned to the box.
§ 307. Court consists of three judges ; chief-judge. The city court of
Brooklyn consists of three judges ; one of whom must, from time to time, as
a vacancy occur?, be appointed chief-judge of the court, as prescribed in the
Constitution.
§ 308. Court always open ; number of trial terms. The court is
always open for the transaction of any business, for which notice is not
required to be given to an adverse party. At least ten terms thereof, for the
trial of issues of law or of fact, must be appointed to be held in each year.
§ 300. Appointment of deputy clerk and assistants to clerk. The
judges of the court, or a majority of them, may appoint as many special
deputy clerks and assistants in the clerk's office, as they deem necessary.
Each officer so appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as pre
scribed by law.
§ 310. Clerk may charge fees. The clerk of the court is entitled, in
addition to his salary, for any service performed by him, to the fee allowed
by law to a county clerk, for a similar service.
§ 311. Sheriff, etc., to attend terms. [Amended by Ch. 414 of 1879.)
The sheriff of the county of Kings, his under-sheriff, or a deputy-sheriff,
designated by him, must attend each term or sitting of the court. If a deputysheriff is designated to attend he shall be entitled to the same compensation
as is allowed by law to messengers and attendants upon said court, and shall
be paid in the same manner. The judge or judges holding the term may
require more than one deputy-sheriff to attend should it be deemed necessary.
§ 312. Expenses to be"a county charge. The expenses of the court
are a- county charge, and must be allowed and paid in like manner as other
county charges.
§ 313. Stenographers. The judges of the court or a majority of them,
from time to time must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, one or two
stenographers, as they deem it necessary for the business of the court. Each
stenographer so appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as
prescribed by law. He must attend each term of the court, where issues of
fact in civil or criminal causes are triable. If two stenographers are appointed,
the judges of the court must assign to each his share of the business. A
stenographer may, with the assent of the judges of the court, or a majority
of them, appoint an assistant-stenographer, to aid him in the discharge of
his duties, whose compensation is payable by the stenographer and is not a
county charge.

Marine court a court of record.*
Jurisdiction.
The last section limited.
Jurisdiction in marine causes.
No power to naturalize aliens.
Removal of action to supreme court from marine court.
Justices; their general duties.
How suspended from office,
Chief-justice ; how designated ; his general duties, etc.
Justices may make rules.
Court when open; justices to designate terms; routine of business at the
terms, etc.
Terms, where held ; publication of appointments.
Justices may take oaths, acknowledgments, etc.
Orders, etc., how made.
Clerk, deputy-clerk and assistants.
General duties of deputy-clerk.
Special deputy-clerks.
Clerk to account monthly for fees, and pay over the same.
Stenographers.
Interpreter.
Id. ; penalty for misconduct.
Court may appoint attendants, etc.
Interpreter and attendants not to receive fees.
Suspension of an officer of the court.
What mandates may be executed without the city.
Direction and execution of mandates.

§ 314. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 315. Jurisdiction. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The jurisdiction
of the marine court of the city of New York extends to the following cases:
only, or to recover one or more chattels, with or without damages for the
taking or the detention thereof.
2. An action to foreclose or enforce a lien upon real property in the city of
New York, created, as prescribed by statute, in favor of a person who has
performed labor upon, or furnished materials to be used in the construction,
alteration, or repair of a building, vault, wharf, fence, or other structure ;
or who has graded, filled in, or otherwise improved, a lot of land, or the
sidewalk or street in front of or adjoining a lot of land.
* Section 311 stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877,
3. An action to foreclose or enforce a lien, for a sum not exceeding two
thousand dollars, exclusive of interest, upon one or more chattels.
4. The taking and entry of a judgment, upon the confession of one or
more defendants, where the sum, for which judgment is confessed, does not
exceed two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest from the time of making
the statement, upon which the judgment is entered.
§ 316. The last section limited. [Amended bt Ch. 542 op 1879.1 The
jurisdiction conferred by the last section is subject to the following limita
tions and regulations :
1. In an action wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum of
money only, the sum, for which judgment is rendered in favor of the plain
tiff, cannot exceed two thousand dollars', exclusive of interest, and costs as
taxed ; except where it is brought upon a bond or undertaking, given in an
action or special proceeding in the same court, or before a justice thereof;
or to recover damages for a breach of promise of marriage ; or where it is a
marine cause, as that expression is defined in the next section. Where the
action is brought upon a bond or other contract, the judgment must be for
the sum actually due, without regard to the penalty therein contained ; and,
where the money is payable in installments, successive actions may be
brought for the installments, as they become due.
2. In an action to recover one or more chattels, a judgment cannot be ren
dered in favor of the plaintifff, for a chattel or chattels the aggregate value
of which exceeds two thousand dollars.
3. The court has not jurisdiction of an action commenced against an ex
ecutor or admiustrator, in his representative capacity. But this subdivision
does not prevent the court from continuing an action against an executor or
administrator, or from substituting an executor or administrator in place of
a defendant in an action in a case where it is prescribed in this act that a
continuance or substitution may be made.
§ 317. Jurisdiction in marine causes. The following actions are styled
in this act marine causes, and the court possesses the same jurisdiction of
such an action, as the supreme court of the State.
1. An action in favor of a person, belonging to a vessel in the merchant
service, against the owner, master, or commander thereof, for the reasonable
value of services, or for the breach of a contract to pay for services rendered
or to be rendered on board of the vessel, during a voyage, wholly or partly
performed, or intended to be performed by it.
2. An action in favor of or against a person, belonging to or on board of a
vessel in the merchant service, to recover damages for an assault, battery, or
false imprisonment, committed on board the vessel, upon the high seas, or in
a place without the United States.
But this section does not confer upon the marine court authority to pro
ceed, as a court of admiralty or maritime jurisdiction.
§ 318. No power to naturalize aliens. The court has not, nor has either
of the justices thereof, power to naturalize an alien.
§ 319. Removal of action to supreme court from marine court. The
supreme court, at a term held in the first judicial district, may by an order
made at any time after joinder of an issue of fact, and before the trial there
of, remove to itself an action brought in the marine court, for the purpose of
chaTi."-)Tig the place of trial thereof. Where an order for removal is made,
as prescribed in this section, the place of trial must be changed by the same
order to another county, and the subsequent proceedings therein must be the
same as if the action had been originally brought in the supreme court.
JUSTICES.
The provisions of sections three hundred and forty-four, three hundred and
forty-five and three hundred and forty-six of this act, apply to an applica
tion to remove such an action, and to the proceedings upon and subsequent
to the removal, as if the marine court was specified in those sections in place
of the county court, and a justice thereof in place of the county judge.
§ 320. Justices ; their general duties. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
The court consists of six justices, one of whom is the chief-justice of the
court. Each justice must perform his share of the labors and duties apper
taining to the office. One of the justices must attend at the chambers of the
court, from ten o'clock in the morning until four o'clock in the afternoon of
each day, except Sunday, a public holiday, or a day upon which the inhabi
tants of the city of New York generally refrain from business. Each
justice, while in the rooms of the court, and not actually engaged in the
performance of other official
official action, properly made to him. The justice, assigned to a trial term
or a special term, must remain in attendance, until the day calendar is dis
posed of, or for such other time as is reasonable.
§ 321. How suspended from office. Where it appears presumptively,
to the satisfaction of the governor, that a justice of the court has been guilty
of corruption, or other gross misconduct in office ; or habitually neglects to
perform his share of the labors and duties appertaining to the office ; or is
incapable of properly discharging the same ; the governor may, in his dis
cretion, make an order, suspending that justice from the exercise of the
duties of his office, and directing that his compensation cease. Such an
order must recite the grounds upon which it is made ; and it remains in
force, unless it is sooner revoked by the governor, until the final adjournment
of the next session of the Legislature ; or, if the Legislature is then in ses
sion, until the final adjournment of that session.
§ 322. Chief-justice ; how designated ; his general duties, etc. The
justices of the court, or a majority of them, must, from time to time, as a
vacancy occurs in the office of chief-justice, designate one of their number
to be chief-justice. A certificate of the designation, under the hands of the
justices making the same, must be filed in the office of the clerk of the court.
The person so designated shall be chief-justice during his term of office.
The chief-justice has the like authority, within the jurisdiction of the court,
as a presiding justice of the supreme court ; and when he is present and is
not disqualified, he must preside at a general term.
§ 323. Justices may make rules. The justices of the court, or a ma
jority of them, may, from time to time, establish rules of practice for the
court, not inconsistent with this act, or with the general rules of practice,
established as prescribed in section seventeen of this act. The latter govern
the practice in the court, as far as they are applicable thereto.
§ 324. Court when open ; justices to designate terms ; routine of
business at the terms, etc. The court is always open for the transaction
of any business, for which notice is not required to be given to an adverse
party. The justices of the court, or a majority of them, from time to time
must appoint, and may alter, the times of holding general, special, and trial
terms of the court. They must prescribe the duration of the terms ; desig
nate the trial terms at which jurors are required to attend ; and assign the
justice or justices to j>reside and attend, at each of the terms so appointed.
In case of the inability of a justice to preside or attend, another justice
may preside or attend in his place. Each trial and special term must be
held by one justice; and each general term by at least two justices. Two
or more general, special or trial terms may be appointed to be held at the
same time. The concurrence of two justices is necessary to pronounce a
decision at a general term. If two do not concur, a re-argument must be
ordered. The justices holding a general term may order a re-argument,
before themselves, or at a subsequent general term, of a cause heard by
them, or at a previous general term.
§ 325. Terms, where held ; publication of appointments. Each term
so appointed must be held at the city hall in the city of New York, except
that auxiliary or additional parts, for the transaction of any business specified
in the appointment, may be held elsewhere within the city of New York, as
designated in the appointment. An appointment must be published in two
newspapers, published in the city of New York, at least once in each week,
for three successive weeks, before a term is held in pursuance thereof.
§ 326. Justices may take oaths, acknowledgments, etc. Each of the
justices may, within the city of New York, administer an oath, or take a
deposition, or the acknowledgment or proof of the execution of a written
instrument, and certify the same, in like manner and with like authority
and effect, as a justice of the supreme court.
8 327. Orders, etc., how made. In an action brought in the court, an
order cannot be made, or a warrant of attachment granted, by an officer,
other than a justice of the court ; and each provision of this act, which
empowers an officer, other than a judge of the court in which an action is
brought, to make an order therein, must be construed as being exclusive of
an action brought in the marine court.
§ 328. Clerk, deputy-clerk and assistants. [Amended by Ch. 416 of
1877.] The court has a clerk, who is appointed, and may be removed, at
pleasure, by the justices thereof, or a majority of them. He must, by a
written instrument under his hand, filed in his office, appoint, and may at
pleasure, remove three deputy-clerks, and not more than ten assistants. The
clerk is responsible for the faithful discharge of his duty, by each deputy
clerk and each assistant. The clerk, each deputy -clerk, and each assistant,
is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
§ 329. General duties of deputy-clerk. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
The clerk, and also each deputy-clerk, before he enters upon the duties of
his office, must subscribe, and file in the office of the clerk of the city and
county of New York, the Constitutional oath of office. The deputy-clerk has
all the powers, and may perform all the duties of the clerk, when the office
of clerk is vacant, or at the clerk's office, when the clerk is absent therefrom,
or at a term or sitting of the court which the deputy-clerk attends.
§ 330. Special deputy-clerks. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] The
clerk may designate as many of his assistants, as the justices of the court,
or a majority of them, deem necessary, as special deputy-clerks. Each
special deputy-clerk possesses, in the absence of the clerk and a deputyclerk, the same powers as the clerk, at any sitting or term of the court
which he attends, with respect to the business transacted thereat.
§ 331. Clerk to account monthly for fees, and pay over the same.
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] The clerk must receive, for the use of the
city of New York, the fees allowed by law. He shall not perforin any ser
vice, for which a fee is allowed by law, until the fee therefore is paid to him.
He must, on the first day of each month, or within three days thereafter,
render to the comptroller of the city an account, under oath, of all fees received,
directly or indirectly, during the preceding month, by him, or by a deputy
clerk, or either of his assistants, for any official service ; and he must, at tha
same time, pay the same into the treasury of the city of New York. When the
return and payment are so made, the clerk is entitled to receive his compen
sation, for the period included in the return. He is not entitled to compensa
tion for a period for which he has not made his return and payment.
§ 332. Stenographers. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The clerk of the
court must appoint three stenographers of the court, and may at pleasure
remove either of them. The justices of the court, or a majority of them, must,
from time to time, assign each of the stenographers to duty at the trial
terms.' Each stenographer is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as
prescribed by law. He must attend each term to which he is assigned.
§ 333. Interpreter. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] The clerk of the
court, from time to time, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, an
official interpreter of the court, who is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be
paid as prescribed by law. Before entering upon his official duties, he must
subscribe and file in the office of the clerk of the city and county of New
York, the Constitutional oath of office. He must attend any trial or special
term of the court, where his services are required ; and the justices of the
court, or a majority of them, may, by order, regulate his attendance.
§ 334. Id. ; penalty for misconduct If the official interpreter know
ingly and willfully, falsely interprets any evidence, matter or thing, between
a witness and the court, or a justice thereof, in the course of an action or
special proceeding, he is guilty of perjury.
§ 335. Clerk must appoint attendants. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
The clerk of the court must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, as many
attendants upon the court as he deems necessary, not exceeding thirteen ;
the justices of the court, or a majority of them, may regulate their attend
ance. Each attendant is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as pre
scribed by law.
§ 336. Clerks, interpreter and attendants not to receive fees. The
clerk, the deputy-clerk, an assistant to the clerk, the official interpreter, or
an attendant, shall not receive any fee or compensation, except his salary,
for any official service performed by him.
§ 337. Suspension of an officer of the court. [Amended by Ch. 416 of
1877.] A justice of the court may, by an instrument under his hand, sus
pend a stenographer, or an officer specified in the last section, for a period
not exceeding ten days from the filing thereof. Such an instrument must
express the cause of the suspension ; it must be filed in the office of the
clerk of the city and county of New York ; and it may be revoked, at any
time before the expiration of the period of suspension, by an instrument filed
in like manner, under the hand of the justice who executed the first instru
ment, or the hands of a majority of the justices of the court. Where such
an instrument has been revoked, the officer shall not be again suspended for
the same cause.
§ 338. What mandates may be executed without the city. A man
date of the court can be executed only within the city of New York, except
as follows :
1. An execution upon a judgment rendered therein, for a sum exceeding
twenty-five dollars, may be issued out of the court, tested in the name of the
chief-justice thereof, to the sheriff of any county, wherein the judgment has
been duly docketed.
2. A subpoena may be served within either of the counties of Richmond,
Kings, Queens, or Westchester.
3. A warrant to apprehend a witness for a failure to obey a subpoena
may be executed by the sheriff of the city and county of New York, or a
marshal of that city, within either of those counties.
4. An order duly made, in an action pending in the court, requiring the
performance of an act by a party thereto, or by an officer, may be served
upon a person bound to obey the order, and his obedience thereto may be
required in any part of the State.
5. An order to show cause why a person should not be punished for a con
tempt of the court, may be served by any person in any part of the State.
6. A warrant to apprehend, and bring before the court, a person charged
with such a contempt, may be executed by the sheriff of' the city and
county of New York, or a marshal of that city, in any part of the State.
§ 339. Direction and execution of mandates. In an action brought in
the court, an order of arrest, a warrant of attachment, an execution, or a
requisition to replevy a chattel, must be directed to and executed by the sheriff.
Any other mandate, which must have been directed to and executed by the
sheriff of the city and county of New York, if it issued out of the supreme
court, may, where it issues out of the marine court, be directed to and exe
cuted either by that sheriff, or a marshal of that city, named therein. A
marshal is entitled to the same fees as the sheriff, upon a mandate directed
to him, or upon the service of a summons ; and each provision of law,
relating to the execution of a mandate by the sheriff, and the power and
control of the court over the sheriff executing the same, applies to the mar
shal. The return of a marshal to such a mandate, or his certificate of the
execution thereof, or of the service of any paper served by him, has the same
force and effect as the like return and certificate of a sheriff.
§ 340. Jurisdiction. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] The jurisdiction
of each county court extends to the following actions and special proceedings,
in addition to the jurisdiction, power, and authority, conferred upon a county
court, in a particular case, by special statutory provisions :
1. To an action for the partition of real property ; for dower ; for the fore
closure, redemption, or satisfaction of a mortgage upon real property ; or to
procure a judgment requiring a specific performance of a contract, relating
to real property ; where the real property, to which the action relates, is
situated within the county ; or to foreclose a lien upon a chattel, in a case
specified in section seventeen hundred and thirty-seven of this act, where
the lien does not exceed one thousand dollars in amount, and the chattel is
found within the county.
2. To an action in favor of the executor, administrator or assignee of a
judgment creditor, or in a proper case, in favor of the judgment creditor, to
recover a judgment for money remaining due upon a judgment rendered* in
the same court.
3. To an action for any other cause, where the defendant is, or, if there
are two or more defendants, where all of them are, at the time of the com
mencement of the action, residents of the county, and wherein the complaint
demands judgment for a sum of money only, not exceeding one thousand
dollars ; or to recover one or more chattels, the aggregate value of which
does not exceed one thousand dollars, with or without damages for the taking
or detention thereof.
4. To the custody of the person and the care of the property, concurrently
with the supreme court, of a resident of the county, who is incompetent to
manage his affairs, by reason of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunkenness ;
and to every special proceeding, which the supreme court has jurisdiction to
entertain, for the appointment of a committee of the person or of the property,
of such an incompetent person, or for the sale or other disposition of the real
property, situated within the county, of a person, wherever resident, who is
so incompetent for either of the causes aforesaid, or who is an infant ; or for
the sale or other disposition of the real property, situated within the county,
of a domestic religious corporation.
§ 341. Domestic corporation, etc., when deemed resident, etc. For
the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of a county court, in either of the
cases specified in the last section, a domestic corporation or joint-stock asso
ciation, whose principal place of business is established, by or pursuant to a
statute, or by its articles of association, or is actually located within the
county, is deemed a resident of the county, and personal service of a summons
made within the county, as prescribed in this act, or personal service of a
mandate, whereby a special proceeding is commenced, made within the
county, as prescribed in this act for personal service of a summons, is sufiicient
service thereof upon a domestic corporation, wherever it is located.
§ 342. Action, etc., wherein county judge is incapable to act.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] If the county judge is, for any cause,
incapable to act in an action or special proceeding, pending in the county
court, or before him, he must make, and file in the office of the clerk, a cer
tificate of the fact; and thereupon the special county judge, if any, and if
not disqualified, must act as county judge in that action or special proceed
ing. Upon the filing of the certificate, where there is no special county
judge, or the special county judge is disqualified, the action or special pro
ceeding is removed to the supreme court, if it is then pen-ling in the countycourt ; if it is pending before the county judge, it may be continued before
any justice of the supreme court within the same judicial district. The
supreme court, upon the application of either party, made upon notice, and
upon proof that the county judge is incapable to act in an action or special
proceeding pending in the county court, may, and if the special county
judge is also incapable to act, must make an order removing it to the supreme
court. Thereupon the subsequent proceedings in the supreme court must be
the same as if it had originally been brought in that court, except that an
objection to the jurisdiction may be taken, which might have been taken in
the county court.
§ 343. Supreme court may remove action, and change place of trial.
The supreme court may, by an order, made at any time after joinder of an
issue of fact, and before the trial thereof, remove to itself an action, brought
in a county court, under subdivision second or subdivision third of the last
section but two, for the purpose of changing the place of trial thereof. Where
an order for removal is made, as prescribed in this section, the place of trial
of the action must be changed by the same order to another county ; and
the subsequent proceedings therein must be the same, as if the action had
been originally brought in the supreme court.
§ 344. Effect of order of removal ; appeal, etc. An order of removal,
made as prescribed in either of the last two sections, takes effect upon the
entry thereof in the office of the county clerk. Where the order directs that
the action be tried in another county, the clerk with whom it is entered,
must forthwith deliver to the clerk of that county, all papers filed therein,
and certified copies of all minutes and entries relating thereto ; which must
be filed, entered, or recorded, as the case requires, in the office of the last
mentioned clerk. The provisions of section two hundred and seventy-one of
this act apply to an appeal taken from such an order.
§ 345. Stay of proceedings. An order to stay proceedings, for the purose of affording an opportunity to make the application for removal, may
e made by the county judge, or by a judge authorized to make such an
order in the supreme court, and with like effect and under like circumstances.
§ 346. Removal of action not to impair process, etc. The removal of
an action or special proceeding, as prescribed in this title, does not invali
date, or in any manner impair, a process, provisional remedy, or other pro
ceeding, or a bond, undertaking, or recognizance in the action or special
proceeding so removed ; each of which continues to have the same validity
and effect, as if the removal had not been made. Where bail was given,
the surrender of the defendant in the supreme court has the same effect, as
a surrender in the county court would have had, if the action or special
proceeding had remained therein.
§ 347. County court may send its process to any county. A county
court has power, in an action or special proceeding of which it has jurisdic
tion, to send its process and other mandates into any county of the State, for
service or execution, and to enforce obedience thereto, with like power and
authority as the supreme court.
348. When jurisdiction, etc., co-extensive with supreme court
ere a county court has jurisdiction of an action or a special proceeding, it
possesses the same jurisdiction, power and authority in and over the same,
and in the course of the proceedings therein, which the supreme court pos
sesses in a like case; and it may render any judgment, or grant either party
any relief, which the supreme court might render or grant in a like case,
and may enforce its mandates in like manner as the supreme court. And
the county judge possesses the same power and authority, in the action or
special proceeding, which a justice of the supreme court possesses, in a like
action or special proceeding, brought in the supreme court.
§ 349. Power of county judge in special proceedings. The county
judge also possesses the same power and authority, in a special proceeding,
which can be lawfully instituted before him, out of court, which a justice of
the supreme court possesses in a like special proceeding, instituted before
him in like manner.
§ 350. Fines and Penalties ; how remitted. Upon the application of a
person, who has been fined by a court, or of a person whose recognizance has
become forfeited, or of his surety, the county court of the county in which
the term of the court was held, where the fine was imposed, or the recogni
zance taken, may, except as otherwise prescribed in the next section, upon
good cause shown, and upon such terms as it deems just, make an order,
remitting the fine, wholly or partly, or the forfeiture of the recognizance, or
part of the penalty thereof; or it may discharge the recognizance. If a fine
so remitted has been paid, the county treasurer, or other officer, in whose
hands the money remains, must pay the same, or the part remitted, accord
ing to the order.
§ 351. Restrictions upon power to remit. The last section does not
authorize a county court to remit any part of a fine, exceeding two hundred
and fifty dollars, imposed by a court of oyer and terminer, or a court of ses
sions, upon a conviction for a criminal offense ; or a fine, to any amount,
imposed by a court upon an officer, or other person, for an actual contempt of
court, or for disobedience to its process, or other mandate ; or to remit or
discharge a recognizance, taken in its county, for the appearance of a per
son in another county. In the latter case, the power of remitting or dis
charging the recognizance is vested in the county court of the county, in
which the person is bound to appear.
§ 352. Notice of application, etc. ; costs to be paid on remission.
An application for an order, as prescribed in the last section but one, cannot
be heard, until such notice thereof as the court deems reasonable, has been
given to the district-attorney of the county, and until he has had an oppor
tunity to examine the matter, and prepare to resist the application. And
upon granting such an order, the court must always impose, as a condicton*
thereof, the payment of the costs and expenses, if any, incurred in an action
or special proceeding for the collection of the fine, or the penalty of the
recognizance.
§ 353. Fines imposed by justices of the peace ; how remitted.
Where a person has been fined by a court of special sessions, or by a justice
of the peace, upon a conviction for an offense, and has been committed to
jail for non-payment of the fine, the county court of the county may make
an order, remitting the fine, wholly or partly, and discharging him from his
imprisonment. The power conferred by this section must be exercised
in the manner prescribed, and subject to provisions contained, in the last
three sections.
§ 354. Who may make orders. In an action or special proceeding in a
county court, an order may be made without notice, or an order to stay pro
ceedings may be made upon notice, by a justice of the supreme court, or
by the county judge of the county where the attorney for the applicant
resides, in a case where the county judge, in whose court the action or special
* So in the original.
proceeding is brought, may make the same, out of court ; and with like
effect.
§ 355. County court when open ; terms thereof [Amended by Ch.
416 of 1871.] The county court is alway open for the transaction of any
business, for which notice is not required, to be given to an adverse party,
except where it is specially prescribed by law, that the business must be
done at a stated term. The county judge must, from time to time, appoint
the times and places for holding terms of his court. At least two terms, for
the trial of issues of law or of fact, must be appointed to be held in each year.
Each term may continue as long as the county judge deems necessary. The
county judge may, by a new appointment, change the day appointed for
holding a term, or appoint one or more additional terms or dispense with
the holding of a term, without affecting any other term or terms theretofore
appointed to be held. Each term must be held at the place designated by
statute for that puipose; except that the county judge may, from time to
time, adjourn a term to any place within the county, for the hearing and
decision of motions and appeals, and trials and other proceedings without a
jury ; and may appoint as many terms as he thinks proper to be held, either
at the court house or elsewhere in the county, for the same purpose.
§ 356. Notice of appointment to be published. Each appointment,
made as prescribed in the last section, must be filed in the county clerk's
office, and a copy thereof published, at least once in each week, for three
successive weeks before a term is held, changed, or dispensed with, by virtue
thereof, in the newspaper in the city of Albany, in which legal notices are
required to be published, and also in at least one newspaper, published in
the county, and as many additional newspapers, published therein, as the
county judge prescribes. The expense of the publication is a county charge.
§ 357. Jurors how drawn and notified Jurors for the terms of the
county court, at which issues of fa t are triable by jury, and of the court of
sessions, must be drawn and notified in the same manner as for a term of
the circuit court.
§ 358. Stenographers for county courts. The board of supervisors of
any county except Kings, Livingston, Monroe, Cortland, Oswego, Westchester,
and Onondaga, may, in their discretion, provide for the employment of a
stenographer for the county court and court of sessions, thereof, and when
said board of supervisors shall so provide, (he stenographer shall be appointed by
the presiding judge of said courts, and said board of supervisors must fix his
compensation, and provide for the payment thereof, in the same manner as
other county expenses are paid. [Am'd Ch. 403 of 1883.]
§ 359. Stenographer for county court and court of sessions in Kings
county. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] The county judge of the county
of Kings, from time to time, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a
stenographer, to be attached to the county court, and the court of sessions,
of the county of Kings, who is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as
prescribed by law. He must attend each trial of an issue of fact in the
county court or court of sessions. The stenographer appointed as prescribed
in this section may, with the consent of the county judge, appoint an assist
ant stenographer to aid him in the discharge of his duties, whose compen
sation shall be paid by the stenographer, and is not a county charge.
§ 360. Interpreter for county court, etc., in Kings county. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The county judge and the surrogate of the county of
Kings, from time to time, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, an
interpreter, to be attached to the county court, the court of sessions and the
surrogate's court of the county of Kiugs. Before entering upon the discharge
of his duties, he must file in the county clerk's office the constitutional oath
of office, and an additional oath, which may be incorporated into the consti
tutional oath, to the effect that he will fully and correctly interpret and
translate each question propounded to a witness and each answer thereto.
§ 361. Stenographer for county courts ofMonroe, Livingston, Niagara
and Onondaga counties. [Amended bt Ch. 63 of 1878.] The judge
holding or presiding at a term of the county court or court of sessions, in
either of the counties of Livingston, Niagara, Monroe or Onondaga, where
issues of fact are triable, may employ a stenographer to take stenographic
notes upon trials thereat, who is entitled to a compensation, to be certified
by the judge, not exceeding ten dollars for each day's attendance, at the
request of the judge. The stenographer's compensation is a charge upon
the county, and in the counties of Livingston, Niagara and Onondaga must
be audited, allowed and paid as other county charges ; and in the county
of Monroe must be paid by the county treasurer on an order of the court,
granted on the affidavit of the stenographer and the certificate of the judge,
that the services were rendered. [Am'd Ch. 7 of 1883.]
When the people will not sue.
Action by grantee from the State.
Action after annulling1 letters patent.
366. Seizin within twenty years, when necessary, etc.
Action after entry.
Possession, when presumed ; occupation presumed to be under legal title.
Adverse possession under written instrument or judgment.
Id.; what constitutes it.
Adverse possession under claim of title not written.
Id. ; what constitutes it.
Relation of landlord and tenant, as affecting adverse possession.
Right not affected by descent cast.
Certain disabilities excluded from time to commence action.

§ 362. When the people will not sue. The people of the State will
not sue a person for or with respect to real "property, or the issues or profits
thereof, by reason of the right or title of the people to the same, unless
either :
1. The cause of action accrued within forty years before the action is com
menced; or,
2. The people, or those from whom they claim, have received the rents
and profits of the real property, or of some part thereof, within the same
period of time.
§ 363. Action by grantee from the State. An action shall not be
brought for or with respect to real property, by a person claiming by virtue
of letters patent or a grant, from the people of the State, unless it might
have been maintained by the people, as prescribed in this title, if the patent
or grant had not been issued or made.
§ 364 Action after annulling letters patent Where letters patent
or a grant of real property, issued or made by the people of the State, are
declared void by the determination of a competent court, rendered upon an
allegation of a fraudulent suggestion or concealment, or of a forfeiture, or
mistake, or ignorance of a material fact, or wrongful detaining, or defective
title ; an action of ejectment, to recover the premises in question, may be
commenced, either by the people, or by a subsequent patentee or grantee of
the same premises, his heirs, or assigns, within twenty years after the
determination is made ; but not after that period.

§ 365. Seizin within twenty years, when necessary, eta An action
to recover real property, or the possession thereof, cannot be maintained by
a party, other than the people, unless the plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor,
or grantor, was seized or possessed of the premises in question, within
twenty years before the commencement of the action.
§ 366. The same. A defense or counterclaim, founded upon the title to
real property, or to rents or services out of the same, is not effectual, unless
the person making it, or under whose title it is made, or his ancestor, prede
cessor, or grantor, was seized or possessed of the premises in question, within
twenty years before the committing of the act, with respect to which it ia
made.
§ 367. Action after entry. An entry upon real property is not sufficient
or valid as a claim, unless an action is commenced thereupon, within one
year after the making thereof, and within twenty years after the time, when
the right to make it descended or accrued.
§ 368. Possession, when presumed ; occupation presumed to be
under legal title. In an action to recover real property, or the possession
thereof, the person who establishes a legal title to the premises is presumed
to have been possessed thereof, within the time required by law ; and the
occupation of the premises, by another person, is deemed to have been
under and in subordination to the legal title, unless the premises have been
held and possessed adversely to the legal title, for twenty years before the
commencement of the action.
369. Adverse possession under written instrument or judgment.
ere the occupant, or those under whom he claims, entered into the pos- ,
session of the premises, under claim of title, exclusive of any other right;
founding the claim upon a written instrument, as being a conveyance of the
premises in question, or upon the decree or judgment of a competent court;
and there has been a continued occupation and possession of the premises,
included in the instrument, decree, or judgment, or of some part thereof,
for twenty years, under the same claim; the premises so included are
deemed to have been held adversely : except that where they consist of a
tract, divided into lots, the possession of one lot is not deemed a possession
of any other lot.
§ 370. Id. ; what constitutes it For the purpose of constituting an
adverse possession, by a person claiming a title, founded upon a written
instrument, or a judgment or decree, land is deemed to have been possessed
and occupied in either of the following cases :
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
2. "Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
3. "Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the supply of fuel,
or of fencing timber, either for the purposes of husbandry, or for the ordi
nary use of the occupant.
"Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved, the portion
of the farm or lot that has been left not cleared, or not inclosed, according
to the usual course and custom of the adjoining country, is deemed to have
been occupied for the same length of time, as the part improved and
cultivated.
§ 371. Adverse possession under claim of title not written. Where
there has been an actual continued occupation of premises, under a claim of
title, exclusive of any other right, but not founded upon a written instru
ment, or a judgment or decree, the premises so actually occupied, and no
others, are deemed to have been held adversely.
§ 372. Id. ; what constitutes it. For the purpose of constituting an
adverse possession, by a person claiming title, not founded upon a written
instrument, or a judgment or decree, land is deemed to have been possessed
and occupied in either of the following cases, and no others :
1. Where it, has been protected by a substantial iuclosure.
2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
§ 373. Relation of landlord and tenant, as affecting adverse posses
sion. Where the relation of landlord and tenant has existed between any
persons, the possession of the tenant is deemed the possession of the land
lord, until the expiration of twenty years after the termination of the ten
ancy; or, where there has been no written lease, until the expiration of
twenty years after the last payment of rent ; notwithstanding that the
tenant has acquired another title, or has claimed to hold adversely to his
landlord. But this presumption shall not be made, after the periods pre
scribed in this section.
§ .374. Right not affected by descent cast The right of a person to
the possession of real property is not impaired or affected, by a descent being
cast, in consequence of the death of a person in possession of the property.
§ 375. Certain disabilities excluded from time to commence action.
If a person, who might maintain an action to recover real property, or the
possession thereof, or make an entry, or interpose a defense or counterclaim,
founded on the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same,
is, when his title first descends, or his cause of action or right of entry first
accrues, either :
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Insane ; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction of a
criminal offense, for a term less than for life.
The time of such a disability is not a part of the time, limited in this title,
for commencing the action, or making the entry, or interposing the defense
or counterclaim ; except that the time so limited cannot be extended more
than ten years, after the disability ceases, or after the death of the person
so disabled.

When satisfaction of judgment presumed.
Effect of return of execution.
How presumption raised.
Limitation of action to redeem from a mortgage.
Other periods of limitation.
'Within twenty years.
Within six years.
Within three years.
Within two years.
Within one year.
When cause of action accrues on a current account.
Action for penalty, etc., by any person who will sue.
Actions not before provided for.
Actions by the people subject to the same limitations.
§ 376. When satisfaction ofjudgment presumed. [Amended by Ch.
416 op 1877.] A final judgment or decree for a sura of money, or directing
the payment of a sum of money, heretofore rendered, in a surrogate's court,
of the State, or heretofore or hereafter rendered, in a court of record within
the United States, or elsewhere, is presumed to be paid and satisfied, after
the expiration of twenty years from the time, when the party recovering it
was first entitled to a mandate to enforce it. This presumption is conclusive ;
except as against a person, who, within twenty years from that time, makes
a payment or acknowledges an indebtedness of some part of the amount
recovered by the judgment or decree ; or his heir or personal representative ;
or a person whom he otherwise represents. Such an acknowledgment must
be in writing, and signed by the person to be charged thereby.
§ 377. Effect of return of execution. If the proof of payment, under
the last section, consists of the return of an execution partly satisfied, the
adverse party may show, in full avoidance of the effect thereof, that the
alleged partial satisfaction did not proceed from a payment made, or a sale
of property claimed, by him, or by a person whom he represents.
§ 378. How presumption raised. A person may avail himself of the
presumption created by the last section but one, under an allegation that the
action was not commenced, or that the proceeding was not taken, within the
time therein limited.
§ 379. Limitation of action to redeem from a mortgage. An action
to redeem real property from a mortgage, with or without an account of
rents and profits, may be maintained by the mortgagor, or those claiming
under him, against the mortgagee in possession, or those claiming under
him, unless he or they have continuously maintained an adverse possession
of the mortgaged premises, for twenty years after the breach of a condition
of the mortgage, or the non-fulfillment of a covenant therein contained.
§ 380. Other periods of limitation. The following actions must be com
menced within the following periods, after the cause of action has accrued.
§ 381. Within twenty years. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Within
twenty years :
An action upon a sealed instrument.
But where the action is brought for breach of a covenant of seizin, or
against encumbrances, the cause of action is for the purposes of this section
only, deemed to have accrued upon au eviction, and not before.
§ 382. Within six years. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877 and by Ch.
422 op 1877.] Within six years :
1. An action upon a contract obligation or liability, express or implied;
except a Judgment or sealed instrument.
2. An action to recover upon a liability created by statute ; except a pen
alty or forfeiture.
3. An action to recover damages for an injury to property, or a personal
injury ; except in a case where a different period is expressly prescribed in
this chapter.
4. An action to recover a chattel.
5. An action to procure a judgment, other than for a sum of money, on
the ground of fraud, in a case which, on the thirty-first day of December,
eighteen hundred and. forty-six, was cognizable by the court of chancery.
The cause of action, in such a case, is not deemed to have accrued, until the
discovery, by the plaintifff, or the person under whom he claims, of the facts
constituting the fraud.
6. An action to establish a will. Where the will has been lost, concealed,
or destroyed, the cause of action is not deemed to have accrued, until the
discovery, by the plaintifff, or the person under whom he claims, of the facta
upon which its validity depends.
7. An action upon a judgment or decree, rendered in a court not of record,
except a decree heretofore rendered in a surrogate's court of the State. The
cause of action, in such a case, is deemed to have accrued, when final judg
ment is rendered.
§ 383. Within three years. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Within
three years :
1. An action against a sheriff, coroner, constable, or other officer, for the
non-payment of money collected upon an execution.
2. An action against a constable, upon any other liability incurred by
him, by doing an act in his official capacity, or by the omission of an official
duty ; except an escape.
8. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where the action
is given to the person aggrieved, or to that person and the people of the State ;
except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation.
4. An action against an executor, administrator, or receiver, or against
the trustee of an insolvent debtor, appointed, as prescribed by law, in a
special proceeding instituted in a court or before a judge, brought to recover
a chattel, or damages for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property
by the defendant, or the person whom he represents.
5. An action to recover damages for a personal injury, resulting from
negligence.
§ 384. Within two years. Within two years :
1. An action to recover damages for libel, slander, assault, battery, or
false imprisonment.
2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the people of the
State.
§ 385. Within one year. Within one year :
1. An action against a sheriff or coroner, upon a liability incurred by him,
by doing an act in his official capacity, or by the omission of an official duty;
except the non-payment of money collected upon an execution.
2. An action against any other officer, for the escape of a prisoner, arrested
or imprisoned by virtue of a civil mandate.
§ 386. When cause of action accrues on a current account. In an
action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual, open, and current
account, where there have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the
cause of action is deemed to have accrued from the time of the last item,
proved in the account on either side.
§ 387. Action for penalty, etc., by any person who will sue. An
action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, given wholly or partly to any
person who will prosecute for the same, must be commenced within one year
after the commission of the offense; and if the action is not commenced
within the year by a private person, it may be commenced within two years
thereafter, in behalf of the people of the State, by the Attorney-General, or
the district-attorney of the county where the offense was committed.
§ 388. Actions not before provided for. An action, the limitation of
which is not specially prescribed in this or the last title, must be commenced
within ten years after the cause of action accrues.
§ 389. Actions by the people subject to the same limitations. The
hmitations, prescribed in this title, apply alike to actions brought in the
name of the people of the State, or for their benefit, and to actions by pri
vate persons.
§ 390. Action against a non-resident, upon a demand barred by the
law of his residence. Where a cause of action, which does not involve the
title to or possession of real property within the State, accrues against a
person, who is not then a resident of the State, an action cannot be brought
thereon in a court of the State, against him or his personal representative,
after the expiration of the time limited, by the laws of his residence, for
bringing a like action, except by a resident of the State, and in one of the
following cases :
1. Where the cause of action originally accrued in favor of a resident of
the State.
2. Where, before the expiration of the time so limited, the person, in
whose favor it originally accrued, was or became a resident of the State ; or
the cause of action was assigned to, and thereafter continuously owned by,
a resident of the State.
§ 391. When person liable, etc., dies without the State. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] If a person, against whom a cause of action exists,
dies without the State, the time which elapses between his death, and the
expiration of eighteen months after the issuing, within the State, of letters
testamentary or letters of administration, is not a part of the time limited
for the commencement of an action therefore, against his executor or admin
istrator.
§ 392. Cause of action accruing between the death of a testator or
intestate, and the grant of letters. [Amended by Ch. 41b' of 1877.] For
the purpose of computing the time, within which an action must be com
menced in a court of the State, by an executor or administrator, to recover
personal property, taken after the death of a testator or intestate, and before
the issuing of letters testamentary or letters of administration ; or to recover
damages for taking, detaining or injuring personal property within the same
period ; the letters are deemed to have been issued within six years after
the death of the testator or intestate. But where an action is barred by
this section, any of the next of kin, legatees, or creditors, who, at the time
of the transaction upon which it might have been founded, was within the
age of twenty-one years, or insane, or imprisoned on a criminal charge,
may, within five years after the cessation of such a disability, maintain an
action to recover damages by reason thereof ; in which he may recover such
sum, or the value of such property, as he would have received upon the
final distribution of the estate, if an action had been seasonably commenced
by the executor or administrator.
§ 393. No limitation of action on bank notes, etc. This chapter does
not affect an action to enforce the payment of a bill, note, or other evidence
of debt, issued by a moneyed corporation, or issued or put in circulation as
money.
§ 394. Action against directors, etc., of banks. [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877.] This chapter does not affect an action against a director or
stockholder of a moneyed corporation, or banking association, to recover a
penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law ; but
such an action must be brought within three years after the cause of action
has accrued.
§ 395. Acknowledgment or new promise must be in writing. An
acknowledgment or promise, contained in a writing signed by the party to
be charged thereby, is the only competent evidence ol a new or continuing
contract, whereby to take a case out of the operation of this title. But this
section does not alter the effect of a payment of principal or interest.
§ 396. Exceptions as to persons under disabilities. If a person, en
titled to maintain an action specified in this title, except for a penalty or
forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other officer for an escape, is, at the time
when the cause of action accrues, either :
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction of a
criminal offense, for a term less than for life ;
The time of such a disability is not a part of the time, limited in this
title for commencing the action ; except that the time so limited cannot be
extended more than five years by any such disability, except infancy ; or,
in any case more' than one year after the disability ceases.
§ 397. Defence or counterclaim. A cause of action, upon which an
action cannot be maintained, as prescribed in this title, cannot be effectually
interposed as a defense or counterclaim.

When action deemed to be commenced.
Attempt to commence action in a court of record.
Id. ; in a court not of record.
Exception, when defendant is without the State.
Id. ; when a person entitled, etc., dies before limitation expires.
Id. ; when a person liable, etc., dies within the State.
In suits by aliens, time of disability in case of war to be deducted.
Provision where judgment has been reversed.
Stay by injunction, etc., to be deducted.
Certain actions by a principal, for misconduct of an agent, etc.
Disability must exist when right accrues.
If several disabilities, no limitation until all removed.
Provision when the action cannot be maintained without a demand.
Provision in case of submission to arbitration.
Provision when action is discontinued, etc., after answer.
How objection taken, under this chapter.
Cases to which this chapter applies.
Mode of computing periods of limitation.

§ 398. When action deemed to be commenced. [Amended by Ch.
416 op 1877.] An action is commenced against a defendant, within the
meaning of any provision of this act, which limits the time for commencing
on action, when the summons is served on him ; or, on a co-defendant who
is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest with him.
§ 399. Attempt to commence action in a court of record. An
attempt to commence an action, in a court of record, is equivalent to
the commencement thereof against each defendant, within the meaning
of each provision of this act, which limits the time for commencing an
action, when the summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall
be actually served, to the sheriff, or, where the sheriff is a party, to a
coroner of the county, in which that defendant or one of two or more
co-defendants, who are joint contractors, or otherwise united in interest with
him, resides or last resided; or, if the defendant is a corporation, to a like
officer of the county, in which it is established by law, or wherein its
general business is or was last transacted, or wherein it keeps or last kept
an office for the transaction of business. But in order to entitle a plaintifff
to the benefit of this section, the delivery of the summons to an officer must
be followed, within sixty days after the expiration of the time limited for
the actual commencement of the action, by personal service thereof upon
the defendant sought to be charged, or by the first publication of the sum
mons, as against that defendant, pursuant to an order for service upon him
in that manner.
§ 400. Id. ; in a court not of record. The last section, excluding the
provision requiring a publication or service of the summons within sixty
days, applies to an attempt to commence an action in a court not of record,
where the summons is delivered to an officer authorized to serve the same,
within the city or town wherein the person resides, or the corporation is
located, as specified in that section ; provided that actual service thereof is
made with due diligence.
§ 401. Exception, when defendant is without the State. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] If, when the cause of action accrues against a person,
he is without the State, the action may be commenced within the time lim
ited therefore, after his return into the State. If, after a cause of action has
accrued against a person, he departs from and resides without the State, or
remains continuously absent therefrom for the space of one year or more, the
time of his absence is not a part of the time limited for the commencement
of the action. But this section does not apply while a designation made as
prescribed in section four hundred and thirty, or in subdivision second of
section four hundred and thirty-two of this act remains in force.
§ 402. Id. ; when a person entitled, etc., dies before limitation
expires. If a person, entitled to maintain an action, dies before the expira
tion of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of
action survives, an action may be commenced by his representative, after the
expiration of that time, and within one year after his death.
§ 403. Id. ; when a person liable, etc., dies within the State. [Amended
by Ch. 542 op 1879.J The term of eighteen mouths after the death, within
the State, of a person, against whom a cause of action exists, is not a part of
the time limited for the commencement of an action against his executor or
administrator. If letters testamentary or letters of administration upon his
estate are not issued, within the State, at least six months before the expira
tion of the time to bring the action, as extended by the foregoing provision
of this section, the term of one year after such letters are issued, is not a
part of the time limited for the commencement of such an action.
8 404. In suits by aliens time of disability in case of war to be
deducted. Where a person is disabled to sue in the courts of the State, by
reason of either party being an alien subject or citizen of a country at war
with the United States, the time for the continuance of the disability is not
a part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.
§ 405. Provision where judgment has been reversed. If an action
is commenced within the time limited therefore, and a judgment therein is
reversed on appeal, without awarding a new trial, or the action is terminated
in any other manner than by a voluntary discontinuance, a dismissal of the
complaint for neglect to prosecute the action, or a final judgment upon the
merits ; the plaintifff, or, if he dies, and the cause of action survives, his
representative, may commence a new action for the same cause, after the
expiration of the time so limited, and within one year after such a reversal
or termination.
§ 406. Stay by injunction, etc., to be deducted. Where the commence
ment of an action has been stayed by injunction, or other order of a court
or judge, or by statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the stay
is not a part of the time, limited for the commencement of the action.
§ 407. Certain actions by a principal, for misconduct of an agent, etc.
Where an injury results from the act or omission of a deputy or agent, the
time, within which an action to recover damages by reason thereof, must be
deputy or agent, must be com
puted from the time, when a judgment against the principal, for the act or
omission, is first recovered by the aggrieved person ; and a subsequent
reversal or setting aside of the judgment does not extend the time.
§ 408. Disability must exist when right accrues. A person cannot
avail himself of a disability unless it existed when his right of action or of
entry accrued.
§ 409. If several disabilities, no limitation until all removed. Where
two or more disabilities co-exist, when the right of action or of entry accrues,
the limitation does not attach, until all are removed.
§ 410. Provision when the action cannot be maintained without
demand. Where a right exists, but a demand is necessary to entitle a per
son to maintain an action, the time, within which the action must be com
menced, must be computed from the time, when the right to make the
demand is complete ; except in one of the following cases :
1. Where the right grows out of the receipt or detention of money or
property, by an agent, trustee, attorney, or other person acting in a fiduciary
capacity, the time must be computed from the time, when the person, having
the right to make the demand, has actual knowledge of the facts, upon
which that right depends.
2. Where there was a deposit of money, not to be repaid at a fixed time,
but only upon a special demand, or a delivery of personal property, not to
be returned, specifically or in kind, at a fixed time or upon a fixed contin
gency, the time must be computed from the demand.
§ 411. Provision in case of submission to arbitration Where the
persons, who might be adverse parties in an action, have entered into a
written agreement to submit to arbitration, or to refer the cause of action, or
a controversy in which it might be available, or have entered into a written
submission thereof to arbitrators ; and before an award, or other determina
tion thereupon, the agreement or submission is revoked, so as to render it
ineffectual, by the death of either party thereto, or by the act of the person
against whom the action might have been brought; or the execution thereof,
or the remedy upon an award or other determination thereunder, is stayed
by injunction, or other order procured by him from a competent court or
judge; the time which has elapsed, between the entering into the written
submission or agreement, and the revocation thereof, or the expiration of the
stay, is not a part of the time, limited for the commencement of the action.
412. Provision when action is discontinued, etc., after answer.
ere a defendant in an action has interposed an answer, in support of
which he would be entitled to rely, at the trial, upon a defense or counter
claim then existing in his favor, the remedy upon which, at the' time of the
commencement of the action, was not barred by the provisions of this
chapter; and the complaint is dismissed, or the action is discontinued, or
abates in consequence of the plaintifff's death ; the time which intervened,
between the commencement and the termination of the action is not a
part of the time limited for the commencement of an action by the defend
ant, to recover for the cause of action so interposed as a defense, or to inter
pose the same defense in another action brought by the same plaintifff, or a
person deriving title from or under him.
§ 413. How objection taken, under this chapter. The objection, that
the action waa not commenced within the time limited, can be taken only by
answer. The corresponding objection to a defense or counterclaim can be
taken only by reply ; except where a reply is not required, in order to enable
the plaintifff to raise an issue of fact, upon an allegation contained in the
answer.
§ 414. Cases to which this chapter applies. The provisions of this
chapter apply, and constitute the only rules of limitation applicable, to a
civil action or special proceeding^ except in one of the following cases :
1. A case, where a different limitation is specially prescribed by law, or a
shorter limitation is prescribed by the written contract of the parties.
2. A cause of action or a defense which accrued before the first day of July,
eighteen hundred and forty-eight. The statutes then in force govern, with
respect to such a cause of action or defense.
3. A case, not included in the last subdivision, in which a person is
entitled, when this act takes effect, to commence an action, or to institute a
special proceeding, or to take any proceeding therein, or to pursue a remedy
upon a judgment, where he commences, institutes, or otherwise resorts to
the same, before the expiration of two years after this act takes effect ; in
either of which cases, the provisions of law applicable thereto, immediately
before this act takes effect, continue to be so applicable, notwithstanding the
repeal thereof.
4. A case, where the time to commence an action has expired, when this
act takes effect.
The word, " action," contained in this chapter, is to be construed, when it
is necessary so to do, as including a special proceeding, or any proceeding
therein, or in an action.
§ 415. Mode of computing periods of limitation. The periods of
limitation, prescribed by this chapter, except as otherwise specially prescribed
therein, must be computed from the time of the accruing of the right to relief
by action, special proceeding, defense, or otherwise, as the case requires, to
the time when the claim to that relief is actually interposed by the party, as
a plaintifff or a defendant, in the particular action or special proceeding.
Action to be commenced by summons ; time when court acquires jurisdiction.
Requisites of summons.
Form of summons.
Service of copy complaint or notice with summons ; consequence of failure.
Cases where such service must be made.
Appearance of defendant.
When defendant must answer at time of appearing.
Notice of no personal claim ; effect of service thereof.
Effect of voluntary appearance.
8ummons ; when and by whom served. Sheriff's duty.
How personal service of summons made upon a natural person.
428. Id.; in certain cases of infancy, or lunacy, etc., not judicially declared.
Id.; when delivery of copy to lunatic dLsjiensed with.
Designation, by a resident, of a person upon whom to serve a summons
during his absence ; effect and revocation thereof.
How personal service of summons made upon a domestic coiporation.
Id.; upon a foreign corporation.
Service of process, etc., to commence a special proceeding.
Proof of service of summons, etc. ; how made.

§ 416. Action to be commenced by summons ; time when court
acquires jurisdiction. A civil action is commenced by the service of a sum
mons. But from the time of the granting of a provisional remedy, the court
acquires jurisdiction, and has control of all the subsequent proceedings.
Nevertheless, jurisdiction thus acquired is conditional, and liable to lt>e
divested, in a case where the jurisdiction of the court is made dependent,
by special provision of law, upon some act, to be done after the granting of
the provisional remedy.
§ 417. Requisites of summons. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877 and
by Ch. 542 of 1879.] The summons must contain the title of the action,
specifying the court in which the action is brought, the names of the parties
to the action, and, if it is brought in the supreme court, the name of the
county in which the plaintifff desires the trial ; and it must be subscribed by
the plaintifff's attorney, who must add to his signature his office address,
specifying a place within the State where there is a post-office. If in a city
he must add the street, and street.number, if any, or other suitable designa
tion of the particular locality.
§ 418. Form of summons. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The sum
mons, exclusive of the title of the action and the subscription, must be sub
stantially in the following form, the blanks being properly filled :
" To the above named defendant : You are hereby summoned to answer
the complaint in this action, and to serve a copy of your answer on the
plaintifff's attorney within twenty days after the service of this summons,
exclusive of the day of service ; and in case of your failure to appear or
answer, judgment will be taken against you by default, for the relief
demanded in the complaint. Dated
." The summons is deemed the
mandate of the court.
§ 419. Service of copy of complaint with summons. [Amended by
Ch. 416 op 1S77 and by Ch. 542 of 1879.] A copy of the complaint may
be served with the summons. If a copy of the complaint is not served with
the summons, the plaintifff cannot take judgment by default, without appli
cation to the court, unless either the defendant appears, or by * a notice is
served with the summons, stating the sum of money for which judgment
will be taken, and the case is one embraced in the next section.
§ 420. Cases where such service must be made. [Amended by Ch.
416 op 1877.] Judgment may be taken without application to the court,
where the complaint sets forth one or more causes of action, each consisting
of the breach of an express contract to pay, absolutely or upon a contin
gency, a sum or sums of money, fixed by the terms of the contract, or capa
ble of being ascertained- therefrom, by computation only ; or an express or
implied contract to pay money received or disbursed, or the value of prop
erty delivered, or of services rendered by, to, or for the use of, the defendant
or a third person; and thereupon demands judgment for a sum of money
only. This section includes a case, where the breach of the contract set
forth in the complaint, is only partial ; or where the complaint shows that
the amount of the plaintifff's demand has been reduced by payment, counter
claim, or other credit.
§421. Appearance of defendant. The defendant's appearance must
be made by serving upon the plaintifff's attorney, within twenty days after
service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service, a notice of appear
ance, or a copy of a demurrer or of an answer. A notice or pleading, so
served, must be subscribed by the defendant's attorney, who must add to
his signature his office address, with the particulars prescribed in section
four hundred and seventeen of this act, concerning the office address of the
plaintifff's attorney.
§ 422. When defendant must answer at time of appearing. [Amend
ed by Ch. 416 op 1877.] A defendant, upon whom the plaintifff has served,
with the summons, a copy of the complaint, must serve a copy of his
demurrer or answer upon the plaintifff's attorney, before the expiration of
the time, within which the summons requires him to answer. If a copy of
the complaint is not so served, a notice of appearance entitles him only to
notice of the subsequent proceedings, unless within tb.8 same time he
• So in the original.
demands the service of a copy of the complaint as prescribed in section four
hundred and seventy-nine of this act.
§ 423. Notice of no personal claim ; effect of service thereof
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where a personal claim is not made
against a defendant, a notice, subscribed by the plaintifff's attorney, setting
forth the general object of the action, a brief description of the property
affected by it, if it affects specific real or personal property, and that a per
sonal claim is not made against him, may be served with the summons. If
the defendant so served unreasonably defends the action, costs may be
awarded against him.
§ 424. Effect of voluntary appearance. A voluntary general appear
ance of the defendant is equivalent to personal service of the •summons upon
him.
§ 425. Summons ; when and by whom served. Sheriff's duty. The
summons may be served by any person, other than a party to the action,
except whore it is otherwise specially prescribed by law. The plaintifff's
attorney may, by an indorsement on the summons, fix a time within which
the service thereof must be made ; in that case, the service cannot be made
afterwards. Where a summons is delivered for service to the sheriff of the
county, wherein the defendant is found, the sheriff must serve it, and return
it, with proof of service, to the plaintifff's attorney, with reasonable diligence.
§ 426. How personal service of summons made upon a natural person[Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] Personal service of the summons upon a
defendant, being a natural person, must be made by delivering a copy thereof,
within the State, as follows :
1. If the defendant is an infant, under the age of fourteen years, to the
infant in person, and also to his father, mother or guardian ; or, if there is
none within the State, to the person having the care and control of him, or
with whom he resides, or in whose eervice he is employed.
2. If the defendant is a person judicially declared to be incompetent to
manage his affairs, in consequence of lunacy, idiocy or habitual drunken
ness, and for whom a committee has been appointed, to the committee, and
also to the defendant in person.
3. If the action is against a sheriff, for a cause specified in section one
hundred and fifty-eight of this act, by delivering it to the defendant in per
son, or to his under-sheriff in person, or at the office of the sheriff, during the
hours when it is required by law to be kept open, to a deputy-sheriff or a clerk
in the employment of the sheriff, or other person in charge of the office.
4. In any other case, to the defendant in person.
§ 427. Id ; in certain cases of infancy, or lunacy, etc., not judicially
declared If the defendant is an infant of the age of fourteen years, or
upwards, or if the court has, in its opinion, reasonable ground to believe,
that the defendant, by reason of habitual drunkenness, or for any other
cause, is mentally incapable adequately to protect his rights, although not
judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs, the court may,
in its discretion, with or without an application therefore, and in the defend
ant's interest, make an order, requiring a copy of the summons to be also
delivered, in behalf of the defendant, to a person designated in the order,
and that service of the summons shall not be deemed complete, until it is so
delivered.
§ 428. The same. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.1 In a case specified in
subdivision first or second of section four hundred ana twenty-six of this act,
where the court has, in its opinion, reasonable ground to believe, that the
interest of the person, other than the defendant, to whom a copy of the sum
mons has been delivered, is adverse to that of the defendant, or that, for any
reason, he is not a fit person to protect the rights of the defendant, it may
likewise make an order, as prescribed in the last section In a case specified
in subdivision second, the court may, as a part of the same order, or by a
separate order, made, in like manner, and upon like ground, at any stage of
the action, appoint a special guardian ad litem to conduct the defense for the
incompetent defendant, to the exclusion of the committee, and with the same
powers, and subject to the same liabilities, as a committee of the property.
§ 429. Id. ; when delivery of copy to lunatic dispensed with.
Where the defendant has been judicially declared to be incompetent to
manage his affairs, in consequence of lunacy, and it appears satisfactor
ily to the court, by affidavit, that the delivery of a copy of the summons
to him, in person, will tend to aggravate his disorder, or to lessen
the probability of his recovery, the court may make an order, dispensing
with such delivery. In that case, a delivery of a copy of the summons, to a
personal service upon the
defendant.
§ 430. Designation, by a resident of a person upon whom to serve a
summons during his absence ; effect and revocation thereof [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] A resident of the State, of full age, may execute,
under his hand, and acknowledge, in the manner required by law to entitle
a deed to be recorded, a written designation of another resident of the State,
as a person upon whom to serve a summons, or any process or other paper
for the commencement of a civil special proceeding, in any court or before
any officer, during the absence from the United States of the person making
the designation ; and may file the same, with the written consent of the
person so designated, executed and acknowledged in the same manner, in
the office of the clerk of the county, where the person making the designa
tion resides. The designation must specify the occupation or other proper
addition, and the residence of the person making it, and also of the person
designated, and it remains in force during the period specified therein,
if any ; or, if no period is specified for that purpose, for three years after
the filing thereof. But it is revoked earlier, by the death or legal incom
petency of either of the parties thereto ; or by the filing of a revocation
thereof, or of the consent, executed and acknowledged in like manner. The
clerk must file and record such a designation, consent or revocation ; and
must note upon the record of the original designation, the filing and record
ing of a revocation. While the designation remains in force, as prescribed
in this section, a summons, or any process or other paper for the commence
ment of a civil special proceeding, against the person making it, in any
court or before any officer, may be served upon the person so designated, in
like manner and with like effect, as if it was served personally upon the
person making the designation, notwithstanding the return of the latter to
the United States.
§ 431. How personal service of summons made upon a domestic
corporation Personal service of the summons upon a defendant, being a
domestic corporation, must be made by delivering a copy thereof, within
the State as follows :
1. If the action is against the mayor, alderman,* and commonalty of the
city of New York, to the mayor, comptroller, or counsel to the corporation.
*So in the original.
2. If tne action is against any other city, to the mayor, treasurer, counsel,
attorney or clerk ; or, if the city lacks either of those officers, to the officer
performing corresponding functions, under another name.
3. In any other case, to the president or other head of the corporation, the
secretary or clerk to the corporation, the cashier, the treasurer, or a director
or managing agent.
§432. Id.; upon a foreign corporation. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
Personal service of a summons, upon a defendant, being a foreign corpora
tion, must be made by delivering a copy thereof, within the State, as follows :
1. To the president, treasurer, or secretary; or, if the corporation lacks
either of those officers, to the officer performing corresponding functions,
under another name.
2. To a person designated for the purpose by a writing, under the seal of
the corporation, and the signature of its president, vice-president, or other
acting head, accompanied with the written consent of the person designated,
and filed in the office of the Secretary of State. The designation must
specify a place, within the State, as the office or residence of the person
designated ; and, if it is within a city, the street and the street number, if
any, or other suitable designation of the particular locality. It remains in
force, until the filing in the same office of a written revocation thereof, or of
the consent, executed in like manner ; but the person designated may, from
time to time, change the place specified as his office or residence to some
other place within the State, by a writing, executed by him, and filed in like
manner. The Secretary of State may require the execution of any instru
ment, specified in this section, to be authenticated as he deems proper, and
he may refuse to file it without such an authentication. An exemplified copy
of a designation so filed, accompanied with a certificate that it has not been
revoked, is presumptive evidence of the execution thereof, and conclusive
evidence of the authority of the officer executing it.
3. If such a designation is not in force, or if neither the person designated,
nor an officer specified in subdivision first of this section, can be found with due
diligence, and the corporation has property within the State, or the cause of
action arose therein ; to the cashier, a director, or a managing agent of the
corporation, within the state.
§ 433. Service of process, etc., to commence a special proceeding.
The provisions of this article, relating to the mode of service of a summons,
apply likewise to the service of any process or other paper, whereby a special
proceeding is commenced in a court, or before an officer, except a proceeding
to punish for contempt, and except where special provision for the service
thereof is otherwise made by law.
§ 434. Proof of service of summons, etc. ; how made. Proof of ser
vice, as prescribed in this article, must be made by affidavit, except as
follows :
1. If the service was made by the sheriff, it may be proved by his certifi
cate thereof.
2. If the defendant served is an adult, who has not been judicially declared
to be incompetent to manage his affairs, the service may be proved by a
written admission, signed by him, and either acknowledged by him, and
certified in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county, or accom
panied with the affidavit of a person, other than the plaintifff, showing that
the signature is genuine.
A certificate, admission, or affidavit of service of a summons, must state
the time and place of service. A written admission of the service of a sum
mons, or of a paper accompanying the same, imports, unless otherwise
expressly stated therein, or otherwise plainly to be inferred from its con
tents, that a copy of the paper was delivered to the person signing the
admission.

§ 435. Order for service of summons from supreme court, when
defendant not found, etc. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877 and Ch. 535 op
1880.] Where a summons is issued in any court of record, an order for the
service thereof, upon a defendant residing within the State, may be made by
the court, or a judge thereof, or the county judge of the county where the
action is triable, upon satisfactory proof, by the affidavit of a person, not a
Sarty to the action, or by the return of the sheriff of the county where the
efendant resides, that proper and diligent effort has been made to serve the
summons upon the defendant, and that the place of his sojourn cannot be
ascertained, or, if he is within the State, that he avoids service, so that per
sonal service cannot be made.
§ 436. How service must be made. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
The order must direct that the service of the summons be made, by leaving
a copy thereof, and of the order, at the residence of the defendant, with a
person of proper age, if upon reasonable application, admittance can be
obtained, and such a person found who will receive it ; or, if admittance
cannot be so obtained, nor such a person found, by affixing the same to the
outer or other door of the defendant's residence, and by depositing another
copy thereof, properly inclosed in a post-paid wrapper, addressed to him, at
his place of residence, in the post-office at the place where he resides.
§ 437. Papers to be filed ; proof of service. The order, and the papers
upon which it was granted, must be filed, and the service must be made,
within ten days after the order is granted ; otherwise the order becomes
inoperative. On filing an affidavit, showing service according to the order,
the summons is deemed served, and the same proceedings may be taken
thereupon, as if it had been served by publication, pursuant to an order for
that purpose, made as prescribed in the next section.
§ 438. Cases in which service of summons by publication, etc., may
be ordered [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] An order, directing the
service of a summons upon a defendant, without the State, or by publication,
may be made in either of the following cases '
1. Where the defendant to be served is a foreign corporation ; or being a
natural person, is not a resident of the State; or where, after diligent
inquiry, the defendant remains unknown to the plaintifff, or the plaintifff is
unable to ascertain whether the defendant is or is not a resident of the State.
2 Where the defendant, being a resident of the State, has departed there
from with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a sum
mons ; or keeps himself concealed therein, with like intent.
3. Where the defendant, being an adult, and a resident of the State, has
been continuously without the United States more than six months next
before the granting of the order, and has not made a designation of a person
upon whom to serve a summons in his behalf, as prescribed in section four
hundred and thirty of this act ; or a designation so made no longer remains
in force ; or service upon the person so designated cannot be made within
the State, after dilligent effort.
4. Where the complaint demands judgment annulling a marriage, or for
a divorce, or a separation.
5. Where the complaint demands judgment, that the defendant be ex
cluded from a vested or contingent interest in, or lien upon, specific real or
personal property within the State ; or that such an interest or lien in favor
of either party be enforced, regulated, defined or limited; or otherwise
affecting the title to such property.
6. Where the defendant is a resident of the State, or a domestic corpora
tion ; and an attempt was made to commence the action against the defend
ant, as required in chapter fourth of this act, before the expiration of the
limitation applicable thereto, as fixed in that chapter ; and the limitation
would have expired within sixty days next preceding the application, if the
time had not been extended by the attempt to commence the action.
7. Where the action is against the stockholders of a corporation, or jointstock company, and is authorized by a law of the State, and the defendant
is a stockholder thereof.
§ 439. Papers upon which order for publication may be made.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] The order must
be founded upon a verified complaint, showing a sufficient cause of action
against the defendant to be served, and proof by affidavit of the additional
facts required by the last section ; and also, where the application is made
upon the ground that the defendant is a foreign corporation, or not a resi
dent of the State, or in a case specified in subdivision fourth, fif th or seventh
of the last section, that the plaintifff has been or will be unable, with due
diligence, to make personal service of the summons.
§ 440. By whom order may be made ; contents of order. [Amended
by Ch. 542 op 1879.] The order may be made by a judge of the court, or
the county judge of the county where the action is triable. It must direct
that service of the summons, upon the defendant named or described in the
order, be made by publication thereof in two newspapers, designated in the
order as most likely to give notice to the defendant, for a specified time,
which the judge deems reasonable, not less than once a week for six successive
weeks ; or, at the option of the plaintifff, by service of the summons, and of a
copy of the complaint and order, without the State, upon the defendant
personally, if he is of full age, or an infant of the age of fourteen years or
upwards ; or, if the defendant is a corporation, upon an officer thereof, speci
fied in section four hundred and thirty-one or four hundred and thirty-two
of this act. It must also contain, either a direction that, on or before the
day of the first publication, the plaintifff deposit in a specified post-office,
one or more sets of copies of the summons, complaint, and order, each con
tained in a securely closed post-paid wrapper, directed to the defendant, at
a place specified in the order ; or a statement that the j udge, being satisfied,
by the affidavits upon which the order was granted, that the plaintifff can
not, with reasonable diligence, ascertain a place or places, where the defend
ant would probably receive matter transmitted through the post-office, dis
penses with the the deposit of any papers therein. •
§ 441. When publication must be commenced ; when service
deemed complete. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The first publica
tion in each newspaper designated in the order, or the service upon the
defendant, without the State, must be made within three months after the
order is granted. For the purpose of reckoning the time, within which the
defendant must appear or answer, service by publication is complete, upon
the day of the last publication pursuant to the order ; and service made
without the State is complete, upon the expiration thereafter of a time equal
to that prescribed for publication.
§ 442. Papers to be filed ; notice to defendant. [Amended by. Ch.
416 of 1871.] Where service is made by publication the summons, com
plaint, and order, and the papers upon which the order was made, must be
filed with the clerk, on or before the day of the first publication ; and a
notice, subscribed by the plaintifff's attorney, and directed only to the
defendant or defendants to be thus served, substantially in the following
form, the blanks being properly filled up, must be subjoined to, and pub
lished with the summons :
"To
: The foregoing summons is served upon you, by publi
cation, pursuant to an order of
" (naming the judge and his
official title), " dated the
day of
, 18 , and filed with the
complaint in the office of the clerk of
at
."
§ 44S. Id. ; when service is made without the State. [Amended by
Ch. 416 of 1877.] Where service is made without the State, the papers
specified in the last section must be previously filed ; and a notice must be
served.with the summons, in all respects like the notice required by the last
section, except that the words, " without the State of New York," must be
substituted for the words, " by publication."
§ 444. Proof of service. Proof of the publication of the summons and
notice must be made by the affidavit of the printer or publisher, or his fore
man or principal clerk. Proof of deposit in the post-office, or of delivery,
of a paper required to be deposited or delivered by the provisions of this
article, must be made by the affidavit of the person, who deposited or
delivered it.
§ 445. Defendant when allowed to defend [Amended by Ch. 416 of
1877.] Where the summons is served, pursuant to an order made as pre
scribed in this article, and the defendant so served does not appear, he, or
his representative, on application and sufficient cause shown, at any time
before final judgment, must be allowed to defend the action ; and, except in
an action for divorce, or wherein the.contrary is expressly prescribed by law,
the defendant, or his representative, must, in like manner, upon good cause
shown, and upon just terms, be allowed to defend, after final judgment, at
any time within one year after personal service of written notice thereof ; or,
if such a notice has not been served, within seven years after the filing of
the judgment-roll. If the defense is successful, and the judgment, or any
part thereof, has been collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution may
thereupon be compelled, as the court directs ; but the title to property sold
to a purchaser in good faith, pursuant to a direction contained in the judg
ment, or by virtue of an execution issued upon the same, shall not be affected
thereby.
§ 446. Who may be joined as plaintifffs. All persons having an inter
est in the subject of the action, and in obtaining the judgment demanded,
may be joined as plaintifffs, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this
act.
§ 447. Id. ; as defendants. Any person may be made a defendant who
has or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff, or who
is a necessary party defendant, for the complete determination or settlement
of a question involved therein ; except as otherwise expressly prescribed in
this act.
§ 448. Parties united in interest, when to be joined ; when one or
more may sue or defend for the whole. Of the parties to the action,
those who are united in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants,
except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this act. But if the consent of
any one, who ought to be joined as a plaintifff, cannot be obtained, he may
be made a defendant, the reason therefore being stated in the complaint.
And where the question is one of a common or general interest of many per
sons; or where the persons, who might be made parties, are very numerous,
and it may be impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more
may sue or defend for the benefit of all.
§ 449. Party in interest to sue, trustee, etc., may sue alone. [Amended
by Ch. 41b' of 1877J. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the
real party in interest, except that an executor or administrator, a trustee of
an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue, with
out joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted.
A person, with whom or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit
of another, is a trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this sec
tion.
8 450. When married woman is a party. [Amended by Ch. 416 op
1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] In an action or special proceeding a married
woman appears, prosecutes, or defends, alone or joined with other parties as
if she was single. It is not necessary or proper to join her husband with
her as a party in any action or special proceeding affecting her separate
property.
§ 451. When defendant or his name is unknown. [Amended by Ch.
542 of 1879.] Where the plaintifff is ignorant of the name or part of the
name of a defendant, he may designate that defendant, in the summons,
and in other process or proceeding in the action, by a fictitious name, or by
as much of his name as is known, adding a description, identifying the
person intended. Where the plaintifff demands judgment against an
unknown person, he may designate that person as unknown, adding a
description, tending to identify him. In either case, the person intended is
thereupon regarded as a defendant in the action, and as sufficiently described
therein, for all purposes, including service of the summons, as prescribed in
article second of the last title. When the name, or the remainder of the
name, or the person, becomes known, an order must be made by the court,
upon such notice and such terms as it prescribes, that the proceedings already
taken be deemed amended, by the insertion of the true name, in place of
the fictitious name or part of a name, or the designation as an unknown per
son ; and that all subsequent proceedings be taken under the true name.
§ 452. When court to decide controversy, or to order other parties
to be brought in. The court may determine the controversy, as between
the parties before it, where it can do so without prejudice to the rights of
others, or by saving their rights ; but where a complete determination of the
controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the court
must direct them to be brought in. And where a person, not a party to the
action, has an interest in the subject thereof, or in real property, the title to
which may in any manner be affected by the judgment, and makes applica
tion to the court to be made a party, it must direct him to be brought in by
the proper amendment.
§ 453. Supplemental summons. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
Where the court directs a new defendant to be brought in and the order is
not made upon his own application, a supplemental summons must be issued,
directed to him, and in the same form as an original summons ; except that,
in the body thereof, it must require the defendant to answer the original or
the amended complaint, and the supplemental complaint, or either of them,
as the case requires. And each provision of this chapter, relating to per
sonal service, or a substitute for personal service of an original summons,
applies to such a supplemental summons'.
ARTICLE SECOND.
Pabties severally liable.

§ 454. When persons liable for the same demand may be sued
together. [Amended by Ch. 41(3 op 1877.] Two or more persons, severally
liable upon the same written instrument, including the parties to a bill of
exchange or a promissory note, whether the action is brought upon the
instrument, or by a party thereto to recover against other parties liable over
to him ; may, all or any of them, be included as defendants in the same
action, at the option of the plaintifff.
§ 455. Defendant so sued may apply for any relief The joinder of a
person, as defendant in an action, with another person, as prescribed in the
last section, does not affect his right to any order or other relief, to which he
would have been entitled, if he had been separately sued in the action.
§ 456. Proceedings in action against defendants severally liable.
Where a summons issued against two or more defendants, alleged to be
severally liable, is served upon some, but not upon all of them, the plaintifff
may proceed against those upon whom it is served, as if they were the only
defendants named therein. Where it is served upon all of them, the
plaintifff may take judgment against one or more of them, where he would
be entited to judgment, if the action was against him or them alone. Where
judgment is so taken, the clerk must, upon the plaintifff's application, enter
an order, directing that the action be severed, and that the plaintifff may
proceed against the other defendants. In any subsequent proceeding, the
plaintifff may use, together with a certified copy of such an order, a copy of
a paper constituting a part of the judgment-roll, with like effect as if it was
the original.
§ 457. Application of this article to defendants jointly liable. The
last three sections do not affect a defense or other objection of a defendant,
growing out of the failure to join in the action two or more persons jointly
liable ; and, as regards the other parties to the action, persons jointly liable
are regarded as one party, for every purpose contemplated by those sections.

Who may petition for leave to pi-osecute as a poor person.
Contents of petition.
When and how leave granted.
Not liable for costs and fees.
When leave may be annulled.
When defendant may petition to defend as a poor person.
Contents of petition.
Proceedings thereon.
Appeal, when party prosecutes or defends as a poor person.
Costs in favor of petitioner.

§ 458. Who may petition for leave to prosecute as a poor person.
A poor person, not being of ability to sue, who alleges that he has a cause
of action against another person, may apply, by petition, to the court in
which the action is pending, or in which it is intended to be brought, for
leave to prosecute as a poor person, and to have an attorney and counsel
assigned to conduct his action.
§ 459. Contents of petition. The petition must state :
1. The nature of the action brought, or intended to be brought.
2. That the applicant is not worth one hundred dollars, besides the wear
ing apparel and furniture necessary for himself and his family, and the sub
ject-matter of the action.
It must be verified by the applicant's affidavit, and supported by a certifi
cate of a counselor at law, to the effect that he has examined the case, and
is of opinion that the applicant has a good cause of action.
§ 460. When and how leave granted. The court to which the petition
is presented, if satisfied of the truth of the facts alleged, and that the appli
cant has a good cause of action, may, by order, admit him to prosecute as
a poor person, and assign to him an attorney and counsel to prosecute his
action, who must act therein without compensation.
§ 461. Not liable for costs and fees. A person so admitted, may prose
cute his action, without paying fees to any officer ; and he shall not be pre
vented from prosecuting the same, by reason of his being liable for the costs
of a former action, brought by him against the same defendant,* if judg
ment is rendered against him, or his complaint is dismissed, costs shall not
be awarded against him.
§ 462. When leave may be annulled If the person so admitted is
guilty of improper conduct in the prosecution of his action, or of willful or
unnecessary delay, the court may, in its discretion, annul the order admit
ting him to prosecute as a poor person ; and he shall thereafter be deprived
of all the privileges conferred thereby.
§ 463. When defendant may petition to defend as a poor person.
A defendant in an action involving his right, title, or interest, in or to real
or personal property, may petition the court, in which the action is pending,
for leave to defend the action as a poor person, and to have an attorney and
counsel assigned to conduct his defense.
§ 464 Contents of petition. The petition must contain the same mat
ters, respecting the ability of the petitioner, required to be contained in a
petition for leave to prosecute as a poor person ; and it must be supported by
a similar certificate, relating to the defense.
§ 465. Proceedings thereon The provisions of this article, relating to
the order, to be made upon an application for leave to prosecute as a poor
person, and the proceedings subsequent thereto, apply to the order and
subsequent proceedings, upon an application for leave to defend as a poor
person.
§ 466. Appeal, when party prosecutes or defends as a poor person.
An order, made as prescribed in this article, does not authorize the petitioner
to take or maintain an appeal, as a poor person ; but where an appeal is
taken by the adverse party, the order is applicable, in favor of the petitioner,
as respondent in the appeal.
§ 467. Costs in favor of petitioner. Where costs are awarded in favor
of a person, who has been admitted to prosecute or defend as a poor person,
as prescribed in this article, they must be paid over to his attorney, when
collected from the adverse party, and distributed among the attorney and
counsel assigned to the poor person, as the court directs

§ 46& Right of infant to bring action. Where an infant has a right of
action, he is entitled to maintain an action thereon ; and the same shall not
be deferred or delayed, on account of his infancy.
§ 469. Guardian for infant plaintifff must be appointed. Before a
summons is issued, in the name of an infant plaintifff, a competent and
responsible person must be appointed, to appear as his guardian for the
purpose of the action, who shall be responsible for the costs thereof.
§ 470. Application therefore. The guardian must be appointed upon the
application of the infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years, or upwards;
or, if he is under that age, upon the application of his general or testamen
tary guardian, if he has one, or of a relative or friend. If the application
is made by a relative or friend, notice thereof must be given to his general
or testamentary guardian, if he has one ; or, if he has none, to the person
with whom the infant resides.
§ 471. Application for appointment of guardian for infant defendant.
[Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] An infant defendant must also appear by
guardian, who must be a competent and responsible person, appointed upon
the application of the infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years, or upwards,
and applies within twenty days after personal service of the summons, or after
service thereof is complete, as prescribed in section four hundred and fortyone of this act; or, if ho is under that age, or neglects so to apply, upon the
application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the
infant. Where the application is made by a person, other than the infant,
notice thereof must be given to his general or testamentary guardian, if he
has one within the State, or, if he has none, to the infant himself, if he is of
the age of fourteen years, or upwards, and within the State; or, if he is
under that age, and within the State, to the person with whom he resides.
§ 472. Guardian, how appointed. Clerk, when to act. [Amended by
Ch. 542 op 1879.] The court in which the action is brought, or a judge
thereof, or, if the action is brought in the supreme court, the county judge
of the county where the action is triable, may appoint a guardian ad litem
for an infant, either plaintifff or defendant, as prescribed in this article. The
clerk must act in that capacity for an infant defendant where the court or
the judge appoints him. No person, other than the clerk, shall be appointed
a guardian ad litem, unless his written consent, duly acknowledged, is pro
duced to the court or judge making the appointment.
§ 473. Guardian for absent infant defendant. [Amended bt Ch. 416
OP 1877.] Where an infant defendant resides within the State, and is tem
porarily absent therefrom, the court may, in its discretion, make an order
designating a person to be his guardian ad litem, unless he, or some one in
his behalf, procures such a guardian to be appointed, as prescribed in the
last two sections, within a specified time after service of a copy of the order.
The court must give special directions in the order, respecting the service
thereof, which may be upon the infant. The summons may be served by
delivering a copy to the guardian so appointed, with like effect as where a
summons is served without the State upon an adult defendant, pursuant to
an order for that purpose, granted as prescribed in section four hundred and
thirty-eight of this act ; except that the time to appear or answer is twenty
days after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service.
§ 474. Guardian not to receive property until security given Except
in a case where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, a guardian,
appointed for an infant, as prescribed in this article, shall not be permitted
to receive money or property of the infant, other than costs and expenses
allowed to the guardian by the court, until he has given sufficient security,
approved by a judge of the court, or a county judge, to account for and
apply the same, under the direction of the court.
§ 475. Security. The security must be a bond to the infant in such
penalty as the judge directs, not less than twice the sum, or the value of the
property, to be received, executed by the guardian and at loast two sureties
approved by the judge, and filed in the office of the clerk. The infant, or
any other party to the action, may afterwards apply for an yder, directing
a new bond to be given, with an increased penalty ; or the court may so
direct of its own motion.
§ 476. Last two sections not to apply to general guardian The last
two sections do not apply to the general guardian of the infant, who has
been appointed his guardian ad litem, as prescribed in this article ; but the
court may, at any time, require the general guardian to give additional
security for the faithful discharge of his trust, before receiving money or
property of the infant, under a judgment or order in the action.
§ 477. Liability of defendant's guardian for costs. A person appointed
guardian, as prescribed in this article, for an infant defendant in an action,
is not liable for the costs of the action, unless specially charged therewith
by the order of the court, for personal misconduct.
First pleading to be complaint.
Copy complaint, when to be served.
Consequence of failure.
Complaint what to contain.
When interlocutory and final judgment may be demanded.
Causes of action to be separately stated.
What causes of action may be joined in the same complaint.
When cause of action deemed single.
When alternative legal or equitable judgment may be demanded.

§ 478. First pleading to bo complaint The first pleading, on the
part of the plaintifff, is the complaint.
§ 479. Copy complaint when to be served. [Amended by Ch. 416
of 1877.] If a copy of the complaint is not deliveied to a defendant, at the
time of the delivery of a copy of the summons to him, either within or
without the State, his attorney may, at any time within twenty days after
the service of the summons is complete, serve upon the plaintifff's attorney a
written demand of a copy of the complaint, which must be served within
twenty days thereafter. The demand may be incorporated into the notice
of appearance. But where the same attorney appears for two or more
defendants, only one copy of the complaint need be served upon him ; and
if after service of a copy of the complaint upon him, as attorney for a
defendant, he appears for another defendant, the last defendant must answer
the complaint, within twenty days after he appears in the action.
§ 480. Consequence of failure. If the plaintifff's attorney fails to serve
a copy of the complaint, as prescribed in the last section, the defendant
may apply to the court for a dismissal of the complaint.
• Stricken oat by Ch. 416 of 1877.
§481. Complaint ; what to contain. The complaint must contain :
1. The title of the action, specifying the name of the court in which it is
brought ; if it is brought in the supreme court, the name of the county,
which the plaintifff designates as the place of trial ; and the names of all the
parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts, constituting each cause of
action, without unnecessary repetition.
3. A demand of the judgment to which the plaintifff supposes himself
entitled.
§ 482. When interlocutory and final judgment may be demanded
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.J In an action triable by the court, without
a jury, the plaintifff may, in a proper case, demand an interlocutory judg
ment, and also a final judgment, distinguishing them clearly.
§ 483. Causes of action to be separately stated. Where the complaint
sets forth two or more causes of action, the statement of the facts constituting
each cause of action must be separate and numbered.
§ 484. What causes of action may be joined in the same complaint.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The plaintifff may unite, in the same com
plaint, two or more causes of action, whether they are such as were formerly
denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they are brought to recover
as follows :
1. Upon contract, express or implied.
2. For personal injuries, except libel, slander, criminal conversation or
seduction.
3. For libel or slander.
4. For injuries to real property.
5. Real property, in ejectment, with or without damage for the withhold
ing thereof.
6. For injuries to personal property.
7. Chattels, with or without damages for the taking or detention thereof.
8. Upon claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation
of law.
9. Upon claims arising out of the same transaction, or transactions con
nected with the same subject of action, and not included within one of the
foregoing subdivisions of this section.
But it must appear, upon the face of the complaint, that all the causes of
action, so united, belong to one of the foregoing subdivisions of this section ;
that they are consistent with each other ; and, except as otherwise pre
scribed by law, that they affect all the parties to the action ; and it must
appear, upon the face of the complaint, that they do not require different
places of trial.
Defendant must demur or i
When he may demur.
The last section qualified.
Demurrer to complaint must specify grounds of objection.
Rule, if too many grounds of objection are specified.
•Strioken out by Ch. «6 of 1877.
§ 487. Defendant must demur or answer. The only pleading on the
part of the defendant is either a demurrer or an answer.
§ 488. When he may demur. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The
defendant may demur to the complaint, where one or more of the following
objections thereto appear upon the face thereof.
/ 1. That the court has not jurisdiction of the person of the defendant.
y 2. That the court has not jurisdiction of the subject of the action.
3. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue.
4. That there is another action pending between the same parties, for the
same cause.
5. That there is a misjoinder of parties plaintifff.
6. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant.
7. That causes of action have been improperly united.
^ 8. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.
I § 489. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 490. Demurrer to complaint must specify grounds of objection.
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] The demurrer must distinctly specify the
objections to the complaint; otherwise it may be disregarded. An objec
tion, taken under subdivision first, second, fourth or eighth, of section four
hundred and eighty-eight of this act, may be stated in the language of the
subdivision ; an objection, taken under either of the other subdivisions, must
point out specifically the particular defect relied upon.
§ 491. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
492. Demurrer to all or part of the complaint ; demurrer to part,
answer to part The defendant may demur to the whole complaint,
or to one or more separate causes of action, stated therein. In the latter
case, he may answer the causes of action not demurred to.
§ 493. Defendant may demur to reply. The defendant may also demur
to the reply, or to a separate traverse to, or avoidance of, a defense or coun
ter-claim, contained in the reply, on the ground that it is insufficient in law,
upon the face thereof.
,
§ 494. When plaintifff may demur to answer. The plaintifff may demur
to a counterclaim or a defense consisting of new matter, contained in the
answer, on the ground that it is insufficient in law, upon the face thereof.
8 495. Demurrer to counterclaim, when defendant demands an
affirmative judgment. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] The plaintifff may
also demur to a counterclaim, upon which the defendant demands an affirm
ative judgment, where one or more of the following objections thereto, appear
on the face of the counterclaim :
1. That the court has not jurisdiction of the subject thereof.
2. That the defendant has not legal capacity to recover upon the same.
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties for the
same cause.
4. That the counterclaim is not of the character specified in section five
hundred and one of this act.
5. That the counterclaim does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
§ 496. Demurrer to counterclaim must specify grounds of objection
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] A demurrer, taken under the last section,
must distinctly specify the objections to the counterclaim ; otherwise it may
be disregarded. The mode of specifying the objections is the same, as
where a demurrer is taken to a complaint.
§ 497. Amendments in certain cases after decision of demurrer.
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Upon the decision of a demurrer, either at
a general or special term, or in the court of appeals, the court may, in its
discretion, allow the party in fault to plead anew or amend, upon such terms
as are just. If a demurrer to a complaint is allowed, because two or more
causes of action have been improperly united, the court may, in its discretion,
and upon such terms as are just, direct that the action be divided into as
many actions, as are necessary for the proper determination of the causes
of action therein stated.
§ 498. When objection may be taken by answer. [Amended by Ch.
416 of 1877.] Where any of the matters enumerated in section four hundred
and eighty-eight of this act as grounds of demurrer, do not appear on the
face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer.
§ 499. Objection ; when deemed waived. If such an objection is not
taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant is deemed to have waived
it; except the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, or the objection that
the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

Answer ; what to ccrantain.
Counter-claim defined.
Rules respecting the allowance of counterclaims.
Judgment, when demand and counterclaim are equal or unequal.
Id. ; for affirmative relief.
Counter-claim, when defendant is sued in a representative capacity.
Id. ; when plaintifff is an executor or administrator.
Defendant may interpose several defenses or counterclaims ; rules relating
thereto.
Partial defenses.
When defendant to demand affirmative judgment.
Effect of improper demand of affirmative judgment.
When pleadings admit part of plaintifff's claim to be just, action may be
served, etc.
Judgment, where counterclaim only is interposed for less than plaintifff's
claim.
Dilatory defenses to be verified.

§ 500. Answer ; what to contain. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
The answer of the defendant must contain:
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the complaint
• Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.
controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof
sufficient to form a belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or counterclaim,
in ordinary and concise language without repetition.
§ 501. Counter-claim defined. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] The
counterclaim, specified in the last section, must tend in some way, to dimin
ish or defeat the plaintifff's recovery, and must b« one of the following causes
of action against the plaintifff, or, in a proper cane, against the person whom
he represents, and in favor of the defendant, or of one or more defendants,
between whom and the plaintifff a separate judgment may be had in the action :
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction, set forth in
the complaint as the foundation of the plaintifff's claim, or connected with
the subject of the action.
2. In an action on contract, any other cause of action on contract, existing
at the commencement of the action.
§ 502. Rules respecting the allowance of counterclaims. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] But the counterclaim, specified in subdivision second
of the last section, is subject to the following rules :
1. If the action is founded upen a contract, which has been assigned by
the party thereto, other than a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange,
a demand, existing against the party thereto, or an assignee of the contract,
at the time of the assignment thereof, and belonging to the defendant, in
good faith, before notice of the assignment, must be allowed as a counter
claim, to the amount of the plaintifff's demand, if it might have been so
allowed against the party, or the assignee, while the contract belonged to him.
2. If the action is upon a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange,
which has been assigned to the plaintifff after it became due, a demand,
existing against a person who assigned or transferred it, after it became due,
must be allowed as a counterclaim, to the amount of the plaintifff's demand,
if it might have been so allowed against the assignor, while the note or bill
belonging to him.
3. If the plaintifff is a trustee for another, or if the action is in the name of
a plaintifff, who has no actual interest in the contract upon which it is founded,
a demand against the plaiutiff shall not be allowed as a counterclaim ; but
so much of a demand existing against the person whom he represents, or for
whose benefit the action is brought, as will satisfy the plaintifff's demand,
must be allowed as a counterclaim, if it might have been so allowed in an
action brought by the person beneficially interested.
§ 503. Judgment, when demand and counterclaim are equal or un
equal. [Amended byCh.416 op 1877.] Where a counterclaim is established,
which equals the plaintifff's demand, the judgment must be in favor of the
defendant. Where it is less than the plaintifff 's demand, the plaintifff must
have j udgment for the residue only. Where it exceeds the plaintifff 's demand,
the defendant must have judgment for the excess, or so much thereof as is due
from the plaintifff. Where part of the excess is not due from the plaintifff,
the judgment does not prejudice the defendant's right to recover, from
another person, so much thereof as the judgment does not cancel.
§ 504. Id. ; for affirmative relief In a case not specified in the last sec
tion, where a counterclaim is established, which entitles the defendant to an
affirmative judgment, demanded in the answer, judgment must be rendered
for the defendant accordingly.
§ 505. Counter-claim, when defendant is sued in a representative
capacity. In an action against an executor or an administrator, or other
person sued in a representative capacity, the defendant may set forth, as a
counterclaim, a demand belonging to the decedent, or other person whom he
represents, where the person so represented would have been entitled to set
forth the same, in an action against him.
§ 506. Id. ; when plaintifff is an executor or administrator. In an
action brought by an executor or administrator, in his representative
capacity, a demand against the decedent, belonging at the time of his
death, to the defendant, may be set forth by the defendant as a counter
claim, as if the action had been brought by the decedent in his lifetime ;
and, if a balance is found to be due to the defendant, judgment must
be rendered therefore against the plaintifff, in his representative capacity.
Execution can be issued upon such a judgment, only in a case where it
could be issued upon a judgment in an action against the executor or
administrator.
§ 507. Defendant may interpose several defenses or counterclaims.
[Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] A defendant may set forth, in his answer,
as many defenses or counterclaims, or both, as he has, whether they are such
as were formerly denominated legal or equitable. Each defense or counter
claim must be separately stated, and numbered. Unless it is interposed as
an answer to the entire complaint, it must distinctly refer to the cause of
action which it is intended to answer.
§ 508. Partial defenses. [Amended bt Ch. 416 of 1877.] A partial
defense may be set forth, as prescribed in the last section ; but it must be
expressly stated to be a partial defense to the entire complaint, or to one
or more separate causes of action, therein set forth. Upon a demurrer
thereto, the question is, whether it is sufficient for that purpose. Matter
tending only to mitigate or reduce damages, in an action to recover dam
ages for the breach of a promise to marry, or for a personal injury, or an
injury to property, is a partial defense within the meaning of this section.
§ 509. When defendant to demand affirmative judgment. [Amended
bt Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where the defendant deems himself entitled to an
affirmative judgment against the plaintifff, by reason of a counterclaim
interposed by him, he must demand the judgment in his answer.
§ 510. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 511. When pleadings admit part of plaintifff's claim to be just,
action may be severed etc. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877 and by Ch.
542 op 1879.] Where the answer of the defendant, expressly or by not
denying, admits a part of the plaintifff's claim to be just, the court, upon
the plaintifff's motion, may, in its discretion, order that the action be
severed; that a judgment be entered for the plaintifff for the part so
admitted ; and, if the plaintifff so elects, that the action be continued, with
like effect, as to the subsequent proceedings, as if it had been originally
brought for the remainder of the claim. The order must prescribe the time
and manner of the plaintifff's election. If the plaintifff elects to continue
the action, his right to costs upon the judgment is the same, as if it was
►taken in an action brought for only that part of the claim. If the plaintifff
does not elect to continue the action, costs must be awarded, as upon final
judgment in any other case.
§ 512. Judgment, where counterclaim only is interposed for less
than plaintifff's claim In an action upon contract, where the complaint
demands judgment for a sum of money only, if the defendant, by his
answer, does not deny the plaintifff's claim, but sets up a counterclaim,
amounting to less than the plaintifff's claim, the plaintifff, upon filing with
the clerk an admission of the counterclaim, may take judgment for the
excess, as upon a default for want of an answer. The admission must be
made a part of the judgment-roll.
§ 513. Dilatory defenses to be verified. A defense, which does not
involve the merits of the action, shall not be pleaded, unless it is verified as
prescribed in title second of this chapter.

Reply ; what to contain.
Judgement upon failure to reply.
Cases where the court may require a reply.
Plaintiff may set forth several avoidances in reply.

§ 514. Reply ; what to contain. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where
the answer contains a counterclaim, the plaintifff', if he does not demur, may
reply to the counterclaim. The reply must contain a general or specific
denial of each material allegation of the counterclaim, controverted by the
plaintifff, or of any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a be
lief ; and it may set forth in ordinary and concise language, without repeti
tion, new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense
to the counterclaim.
§ 515. Judgment upon failure to reply. If the plaintifff fails to reply
or demur to the counterclaim, the defendant may apply, upon notice, for
judgment thereupon ; and, if the case requires it, a reference may be ordered,
or a writ of inquiry may be issued, as prescribed in chapter eleventh of thia
act, where the plaintifff applies for judgment.
§ 51 6. Cases where the court may require a reply. Where an answer
contains new matter, constituting a defense by way of avoidance, the court
may, in its discretion, on the defendant's application, direct the plaintifff to
reply to the new matter. In that case, the reply, and the proceedings upon
failure to reply, are subject to the same rules as in the case of a counter
claim.
§ 517. Plaintiff may set forth several avoidances in reply. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] A reply may contain two or more distinct avoidances
of the same defense or counterclaim ; but they must be separately stated
and numbered.
Application and effect of this chapter.
Pleadings to be liberally construed.
Pleading to be subscribed ; within what time to be served.
When defendant to serve copy answer on co-defendant.
Allegation not denied ; when to be deemed true.
When pleading must be verified j and when verification may be omitted.
Form and construction of certain allegations and denials in verified pleadings.
Verification ; how and by whom made.
Form of affidavit of verification.
When verification may be confined to a counterclaim.
Remedy for defective verification, or want of verification.
When defendant not excused from verifying answer to charge of fraud.
Private statute ; how pleaded.
Account ; how pleaded. Bill of particulars.
Judgments ; how pleaded.
Conditions precedent ; how pleaded.
Instrument for payment of money ; how pleaded.
Pleadings in libel and slander.
Pleading mitigating circum.stai.. , in action for a wrong.
Frivolous pleadings ; how disiHi.ei. of.
Sham defenses to be stricken out.
Material variances ; how provided for.
Immaterial variances ; how provided for.
What to be deemed a failure of proof.
Amendments of course.
Amended pleading to be served ; answer thereto.
Supplemental pleadings.
A motion to strike out irrelevant, etc., matter.
Proceedings after exception.
Determination upon the exception ; costs ; when the attorney may be ordered
to pay costs.

§ 518. Application and effect of this chapter. This chapter prescribes
the form of pleadings in an action, and the rules by which the sufficiency
thereof is determined, except where special provision is otherwise made
by law.
§ 519. Pleadings to be liberally construed The allegations of a
pleading must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.
§ 520. Pleadings to be subscribed ; within what time to be served
A pleading must be subscribed by the attorney for the party. A copy of
each pleading, subsequent to the complaint, must be served on the attorney
for the adverse party, within twenty days after service of a copy of the pre
ceding pleading.
521. When defendant to serve copy answer on co-defendant
ere the judgment may determine the ultimate rights of two or more
defendants, as between themselves, a defendant, who requires such a deter
mination, must demand it in his answer, and must, at least ten days before
the trial, serve a copy of his answer upon the attorney for each of the defend
ants, to be affected by the determination. The controversy between the
defendants shall not delay a judgment, to which the plaintifff is entitled ;
unless the court otherwise directs.
§ 522. Allegation not denied ; when to be deemed true. Each ma
terial allegation of the complaint, not controverted by the answer, and each
material allegation of new matter in the answer, not controverted by the
reply, where a reply is required, must, for the purposes of the action, be
taken as true. But an allegation of new matter in the answer, to which a
reply is not required, or of tiew matter in a reply, is to be deemed contro
verted by the adverse party, by traverse or avoidance, as the case requires.
§ 523. When pleading must be verified ; and when verification may
be omitted Where a pleading is verified, each subsequent pleading, ex
cept a demurrer, or the general answer of an infant by his guardian ad
* Stricken oat by Ch. 416 of 1877.t. 2, Ch. 6.

litem, must also be verified But the verification may be omitted, in a case
where it is not otherwise specially prescribed by law, where the party plead
ing would be privileged from testifying, as a witness, concerning an allega
tion or denial contained in the pleading. A pleading cannot be used in a
criminal prosecution against a party, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged
therein.
§ 524. Form and construction of certain allegations and denials in
verified pleading The allegations or denials in a verified pleading must,
in form, be stated to be made by the party pleading. Unless they are
therein stated to be made upon the information and belief of the party, they
must be regarded, for all purposes, including a criminal prosecution, as hav
ing been made upon the knowledge of the person verifying the pleading.
An allegation that the party has not sufficient knowledge or information to
form a belief, with respect to a matter, must, for the same purposes, be re
garded as an allegation that the person verifying the pleading has not such
knowledge or iuformation.
§ 525. Verification ; how and by whom made. [Amended by Ch. 542
of 1879.] The verification must be made by the affidavit of the party, or,
if there are two or more parties united in interest, and pleading together,
by at least one of them, who is acquainted with the facts, except as follows :
1. Where the party is a domestic corporation, the verification must be
made by an officer thereof.
2. Where the people of the State are, or a public officer, in their behalf, is
the party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted with the
facts.
3. Where the party is a foreign corporation ; or where the party is not
within the county where the attorney resides, or, if the latter is not a resi
dent of the State, the county where he has his office, and capable of making
the affidavit ; or, if there are two or more parties united in interest, and
pleading together, where neither of them, acquainted with the facts, is
within that county, and capable of making the affidavit ; or where the ac
tion or defense is founded upon a written instrument for the payment of
money only, which is in the possession of the agent or the attorney ; or
where all the material allegations of the pleading are within the personal
knowledge of the agent or the attorney ; in either case the verification may
be made by the agent of or the attorney for the party.
§ 526. Form of affidavit of verification. The affidavit of verification
must be to the effect, that the pleading is true to the knowledge of the de
ponent, except as to the matters therein stated to be alleged on information
and belief, and that as to those matters he believes it to be true. Where it
is made by a person, other than the party, he must set forth, in the affidavit,
the grounds of his belief, as to all matters not stated upon his knowledge,
and the reason why it is not made by the party.
§ 527. When verification may be confined to a counterclaim.
Where the complaint is not verified, and the answer sets up a counterclaim,
and also a defense by way of denial or avoidance, the affidavit of verifica
tion may be made to refer exclusively to the counterclaim. In that case,
the last three sections are applicable to the affidavit and the counterclaim,
as if the latter was a separate pleading.
§ 528. Remedy for defective verification, or want of verification.
The remedy for a defective verification of a pleading is to treat the same as
an unverified pleading. Where the copy of a pleading is served without a
copy of a sufficient verification, in a case where the adverse party is entitled
to a verified pleading, he may treat it as a nullity, provided he gives notice,
with due diligence, to the attorney of the adverse party, that he elects so
to do.
§ 529. When defendant not excused from verifying answer to
charge of fraud. A defendant is not excused from verifying his answer
to a complaint, charging him with having confessed or suffered a judgment,
or executed a conveyance, assignment or other instrument, or transferred or
delivered money, or personal property, with intent to hinder, delay, or
defraud his creditors ; or with being a party or privy to such a transaction
by another person, with like intent toward the creditors of that person ; or
with any fraud whatever, affecting a right or the property of another.
§ 530. Private statute ; how pleaded. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it is sufficient to
designate the statute by its chapter, year of passage and title, or in some
other manner with convenient certainty, without setting forth any of the
contents thereof.
§531. Account; how pleaded. Bill of particulars. It is not neces
sary for a party to set forth, in a pleading, the items of an account therein
alleged ; but in that case he must deliver to the adverse party, within ten
days after a written demand thereof, a copy of the account, which, if the
pleading is verified, must be verified by his affidavit, to the effect that he
believes it to be true ; or, if the facts are within the personal knowledge of
the agent or attorney for the party, or the party is not within the county
where the attorney resides, or capable of making the affidavit, by the affidavit
of the agent or attorney. If he fails so to do, he is precluded from giving
evidence of the account. The court, or a judge authorized to make an
order in the action, may direct the party to deliver a further account, where
the one delivered is defective. The court may, in any case, direct a bill
of the particulars of the claim of either party to be delivered to the adverse
party.
§ 532. Judgments ; how pleaded. In pleading a judgment, or other
determination of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it is not necessary
to state the facts conferring jurisdiction ; but the judgment or determination
may be stated to have been duly given or made. If that allegation is con
troverted, the party -pleading must, on the trial, establish the facts confer
ring jurisdiction.
§ 533. Conditions precedent ; how pleaded. In pleading the per
formance of a condition precedent in a contract, it is not necessary to state
the facts constituting performance ; but the party may state, generally, that
he, or the person whom he represents, duly performed all the conditions on
his part. If that allegation is controverted, he must, on the trial, establish
performance.
§ 534. Instrument for payment of money ; how pleaded. Where a
cause of action, defense, or counterclaim, is founded upon an instrument for
the payment of money only, the party may set forth a copy of the instru
ment, and state that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse party, a
specified sum, which he claims. Such an allegation is equivalent to setting
forth the instrument, according to its legal effect.
§ 535. Pleadings in libel and slander. It is not necessary, in an action
for libel or slander, to state in the complaint, any extrinsic fact, for the pur
pose of showing the application to the plaintifff, of the defamatory matter ;
but the plaintifff may state, generally, that it was published or spoken con
cerning him ; and if that allegation is controverted, the plaintifff must
establish it on the trial. In such an action, the defendant may prove
mitigating circumstances, notwithstanding that he has pleaded or attempted
to prove a justification.
§ 536. Pleading mitigating circumstances in action for a wrong.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op lfc>77.] In an action to recover damages for the
breach of a promise to marry, or for a personal injury, or an injury to prop
erty, the defendant may prove, at the trial, facts, not, amounting to a total
defense, tending to mitigate or otherwise reduce the plaintifff's damages, if
they are set forth in the answer, either with or without one or more defenses
to the entire cause of action. A defendant, in default for want of an answer,
may, upon a reference or inquiry to ascertain the amount of the plaintifff's
damages, prove facts of that description.
§ 537. Frivolous pleadings ; how disposed of. [Amended by Ch. 416
of 1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.1 If a demurrer, answer, or reply is
frivolous, the party prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice to the adverse
party, of not less than five days, may apply to the court or to a judge of the
court for judgment thereupon, and judgment may be given accordingly. If
the application is denied, an appeal cannot be taken from the determina
tion, and the denial of the application does not prejudice any of the subse
quent proceedings of either party. Costs, as upon a motion, may be awarded
upon an application pursuant to this section.
§ 538. Sham defenses to be stricken out. A sham answer or a sham
defense may be stricken out by the court, upon motion, and upon such terms
as the court deems just.
§ 539. Material variances ; how provided for. A variance, between
an allegation in a pleading and the proof, is not material, unless it has
actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his action
or defense, upon the merits. If a party insists that he has been misled,
that fact, and the particulars in which he has been misled, must be proved
to the satisfaction of the court. Thereupon the court may, in its discretion,
order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as it deems just.
§ 540. Immaterial variances ; how provided for. Where the variance
is not material, as prescribed in the last section, the court may direct the
fact to be found according to the evidence, or may order an immediate
amendment without costs.
§ 541. What to be deemed a failure of proof Where, however, the
allegation to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particular
or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it is not a case of
variance, within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
§ 542. Amendments of course. Within twenty days after a pleading,
or the answer or demurrer thereto, is served, or at any time before the period
for answering it expires, the pleading may be once amended by the party,
of course, without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already
had. But if it is made to appear to the court, that the pleading was
amended for the purpose of delay, and that the adverse party will thereby
lose the benefit of a term, for which the cause is or may be noticed, the
amended pleading may be stricken out, or the pleading may be restored to
its original form, and such terms imposed as the court deems just.
§ 543. Amended pleading to be served ; answer thereto. Where a
pleading is amended, as prescribed in the last section, a copy thereof must
be served upon the attorney of the adverse party. A failure to demur to,
or answer the amended pleading, within twenty days thereafter, has the
same effect as a like failure to demur to, or answer the original pleading.
§ 544. Supplemental pleadings. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Upon
the application of either party, the court may, and, in a proper case, must,
upon such terms as are just, permit him to make a supplemental complaint,
answer or reply, alleging material facts which occurred after his former
pleading, or of which he was ignorant when it was made ; including the
judgment or decree of a competent court, rendered after the commencement
of the action, determining the matters in controversy, or a part thereof. The
party may apply for leave to make a supplemental pleading, either in addi
tion to or in place of, the former pleading. In the former event, if the
application is granted, a provisional remedy, or other proceeding already
taken in an action is not affected by the supplemental pleading ; but the
right of the adverse party to have it vacated or set aside, depends upon the
case presented by the original and supplemental pleadings.
§ 545. Motion to strike out irrelevant, etc., matter. [Amended by Ch.
418 op 1877.] Irrelevant, redundant or scandalous matter contained in a
pleading, may be stricken out upon the motion of a person aggrieved
thereby. Where scandalous matter is thus stricken out, the attorney, whose
name is subscribed to the pleading, may be directed to pay the costs of the
motion, and his failure to pay them may be punished as a contempt of the
court.
§ 546. Indefinite or uncertain allegations. [Amended by Ch. 416 of
1877.] Where one or more denials or allegations, contained in a pleading
are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise meaning or application thereof,
is not apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite and
certain by amendment.
§ 547. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
Section 548. No person to be arrested in civil proceedings, without a statutory pro
vision ; ne exeat abolished.
§ 548. No person to be arrested except as prescribed by statute.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] A person shall not be arrested in a civil
action, or special proceeding, except as prescribed by statute. The writ of
ne exeat is hereby abolished.
§ 549. When the right to arrest depends upon the nature of the
action [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877 and by Ch. 542 of 1879.J A defend
ant may be arrested in an action, as prescribed in this title, where the action
is brought for either of the following causes :
1. To recover a fine or penalty.
2. To recover damages for a personal injury ; an injury to property, includ
ing the wrongful taking, detention, or conversion' of personal property ;
breach of a promise to marry ; misconduct or neglect in office, or in a profes
sional employment ; fraud ; or deceit. But this subdivision does not apply
to a claim for damages in an action to recover a chattel.
3. To recover money, funds, credits, or property, held or owned by the
State, or held or owned, officially or otherwise, for or in behalf of a public or
governmental interest, by a municipal or other public corporation, board,
officer, custodian, agency, or agent, of the State, or of a city, county, town,
village, or other division, subdivision, department, or portion of the State,
which the defendant has, without right, obtained, received, converted, or
disposed of ; or to recover damages for so obtaining, receiving, paying, con
verting, or disposing of the same.
4. In an action upon contract, express or implied, other than a promise to
marry, where it is alleged in the complaint that the defendant was guilty
of a fraud in contracting or incurring the liability. Where such an allega
tion is made, the plaintifff cannot recover unless he proves the fraud ; and a
judgment for the defendant is not a bar to a new action to recover upon the
contract only.
v
§ 550. When the right to arrest depends partly upon extrinsic facts.
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877, by Ch. 422 of 1877 and by Ch. 542 of 1879.]
A defendant may also be arrested as prescribed in this title, in either of the
following cases :
1. In an action to recover a chattel, when the chattel, or a part thereof,
has been concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or
taken by the sheriff, and with intent that it should not be so found or taken,
or .to deprive the plaintifff of the benefit thereof.
2. In an action upon contract, express or implied, other than a promise to
marry, where the defendant has, since the making of the contract, or in con
templation of making the same, removed or disposed of his property, with
intent to defraud his creditors, or is about to remove or dispose of the same,
with like intent.
3. In an action to recover for money received, or to recover property, or
damages for the conversion or misapplication of property, where the money
was received, or the property was embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, by
a public officer, or by an attorney, solicitor or counsellor, or by an officer or
agent of a corporation or banking association, in the course of his employ
ment, or by a factor, agent, broker or other person in a fiduciary capacity.
But this subdivision does not apply to an action to recover a chattel.
4. In an action wherein the judgment demanded requires the performance
of an act, the neglect or refusal to perform which would be punishable by the
court as a contempt, where the defendant is not a resident of the State, or,
being a resident, is about to depart therefrom, by reason of which non-resi
dence or departure there is danger that a judgment or an order requiring
the performance of the act will be rendered ineffectual.
§ 551. Order, when and where granted ; when of right, and when
discretionary. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877 and by Ch. 422 of 1877.]
In a case specified in subdivision fourth of the last section, the order of
arrest can be granted only by the court ; is always in its discretion ; and
may be granted or served, either before or after final judgment, unless an
appeal from the judgment is pending, upon whi*h security has been given,
sufficient to stay the execution thereof. In either of the other cases specified
in the last two sections, the order cannot be served after final judgment ; but
it may be granted, where a proper case therefore is presented, at any time
before final judgment.
§ 552. Foreign judgment not to affect right to arrest. The recovery
of judgment in a court, not of the State, for the same cause of action; or,
where the action is founded upon fraud or deceit, for the price or value of
the property obtained thereby ; does not affect the right of the plaintifff to
arrest the defendant, as prescribed in this title.
§ 553. Woman not to be arrested, except, etc. [Amended by Ch.
416 of 1877.] A woman cannot be arrested, as prescribed in this title, except in a case where the order can be granted only by the court ; or where
it appears that the action is to recover damages for a willful injury to person,
character or property.
§ 554. Idiot, lunatic, or infant under fourteen, if arrested to be dis
charged. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] A lunatic, an idiot or an infant
under the age of fourteen years, if arrested, may be discharged from arrest
as a privileged person in the discretion of the court. The application for
his discharge may be made, in his behalf, by a relative, or by any other
person whom the court or judge permits to represent him, for the purpose.
§ 555. Person sued in a representative capacity, not to be arrested.
A person prosecuted in a representative capacity, as heir, executor, adminis
trator, legatee, devisee, next, of kin, assignee, or trustee, cannot be arrested,
as prescribed in this title, except for his personal act.
ARTICLE SECOND.
GRANTING, EXECUTING, AND VACATING OR MODIFYING THE ORDER OP ARREST.

Order required for arrest ; how granted.
Proof necessary to procure order.
When order may be granted ; effect of complaint subsequently made.
Security, upon order of arrest made by a judge.
Id. ; upon order of arrest granted by the court.
Contents of the order ; to whom directed ; when to be executed.
Copies of papers to be delivered to defendant ; originals to be filei-.
Arrest ; how made.
General provision as to privilege from arrest ; discharge of privileged person.
Privilege of officera of courts.
Defendant arrested to have twenty days to answer.
When application to be made to vacate order of arrest, etc.
How and to whom application must be made ; opposing it by new proofs.
*570. Questions of fact arising on the motion.
When prior motion not to prejudice subsequent motion.
Supersedeas, unless defendant is charged in execution, etc.

§ 556. Order required for arrest ; how granted. [Amended by Ch.
416 of 1877. J An order for the arrest of the defendant, except as otherwise
prescribed in section five hundred and fifty-one of this act, must be obtained
from a judge of the court in which the action is brought, or from any county
judge.
§ 557. Proof necessary to procure order. [Amended by Ch. 416 op
1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] The order may be granted, in a case speci
fied in section five hundred and forty-niiie of this act, where it appears by
the affidavit of the plaintifff, or any other person, that a sufficient cause of
action exists against the defendant, as prescribed in that section. It may be
granted, in a case specified in section five hundred and fifty of this act, upon
the like proof that a sufficient cause of action exists against the defendant,
as prescribed in that section, and of the other matters, extrinsic to the cause
of action, specified in that section. The affidavit may also contain any state
ment, tending to determine the amount of bail to be required.
§ 558. When order may be granted, effect of complaint subse
quently made. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.]
Subject to the provisions of the last preceding article, the order may be
• Stricken out by Ch. 116 of 1877110
granted at any time, after the commencement of the action. It may also be
granted, to accompany the summons. But at any time after the filing or
service of the complaint, the order of arrest must be vacated on motion, if the
complaint fails to set forth a sufficient cause of action, as required by the last
section.
§ 559. Security upon crder of arrest made by a judge. [Amended
by Ch. 512 op 1870.] Except where the action is brought for a cause speci
fied in subdivision third of section five hundred and forty-nine of this act, or
in a case where it is specially prescribed by law that security may be dis
pensed with, or the security to be given is specially regulated by law, the
judge, before he grants the order, must require a written undertaking on
the part of the plaintifff, with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that, if the
defendant recovers judgment, or if it is finally decided that the plaintifff was
not entitled to the order of arrest, the plaintifff will pay all costs which may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking,
which must be at least equal to one-tenth of the amount of bail required by
the order, and not less than two hundred and fifty dollars.
8 560. Id ; upon order of arrest granted by the court Where the
order can be granted only by the court, an undertaking on the part of the
plaintifff may be dispensed with. If it !s required, its form and the security
to be given thereupon, must be such as the court prescribes.
§ 561. Contents of the order ; to whom directed ; when to be exe
cuted [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The order must be subscribed by
the plaintifff's attorney, and except where it is granted by the court, by the
judge. It may be directed, either to the sheriff of a particular county, or,
gene -ally, to the sheriff of any county. It must, require the sheriff forthwith
to arrest the defendant if he is found within his county ; to hold him to
bail in a specified sum ; and to return the order, with his proceedings there
under, as prescribed by law. The plaintifff's attorney may, at his option,
by an indorsement upon the order, or, where it was granted by the court,
upon the copy thereof, delivered to the sheriff, fix a time within which the
defendant must be arrested. In that case, he cannot be arrested afterwards
under the same order.
§ 562. Copies oi papers to be delivered to defendant ; originals to
be filed. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] The
order of arrest, or where it was granted by the court, a certified copy
thereof, subscribed by the plaintifff's attorney; and, in either case, the
papers upon which the order was granted, with the undertaking, if any ;
must be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, must
deliver to him a copy thereof. The papers, upon which the order was
granted, with the undertaking, if any, must be filed, with the order of arrest,
or a certified copy thereof, at the time prescribed for filing the same, in
section five hundred and ninety of this act.
§ 563. Arrest; how made. The sheriff must execute the order by
arresting the defendant, if he is found within his county, and keeping him
in custody until discharged by law.
§ 564. General provision as to privilege from arrest ; discharge of
privileged person. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] This title does not
abridge or affect a privilege from arrest given by law, or a right of action
for a breach thereof. A privileged person is entitled to be discharged from
arrest, where other provision is not made therefore by law, by the court, or a judge thereof; or by the county judge of the county, or a judge of a
superior city court of the city where the arrest was made. The order must
be made, upon proof by affidavit, of the facts entitling the applicant to the
discharge ; and the arrest and discharge are not a bar to a new arrest, after
the privilege has ceased. The court or judge may make the order without
notice, or may require notice to be given to the sheriff, or to the plaintifff, or
to both.
§ 565. Privilege of officers of courts. An officer of a court of record,
appointed or elected pursuant to law, is privileged from arrest, during the
actual sitting which he is required to attend, of a term of the court of which
he is an officer, and no longer ; but an attorney or counsellor is not thus
privileged, unless he is employed in a cause, to be heard at that terra.
§ 566. Defendant arrested to have twenty days to answer. Except
where an order of arrest can be granted only by the court, a defendant,
arrested before answer, has twenty days after the arrest, in which to answer
the complaint ; and judgment must be stayed accordingly.
§ 567. When application to be made to vacate order of arrest, etc.
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Except where an order of arrest can be
granted only by the court, a defendant, arrested as prescribed in this title,
may, at any time before final judgment, or, if he was arrested within
twenty days before final judgment, at any time within twenty days after
the arrest, apply to vacate the order of arrest ; or to reduce the amount of
bail ; or to increase the security given by the plaintifff ; or for one or more of
those forms of relief, together, or in the alternative. In a case where the
order of arrest can be granted only by the court, a like application may
be made, at any time within twenty days after the arrest ; and an applica
tion to increase the security given by the plaintifff, may be made at any time
before final judgment.
§ 568. How and to whom motion must be made ; opposing it by
new proofs. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] An application, specified in
the last section, may be founded only upon the papers upon which the order
was granted ; in which case, it must be made to the court, or, if the order
was granted by a judge out of court, to the same judge, in court or out of
court, and with or without notice, as he deems proper, and the application
must be heard upon those papers only. Or it may be founded upon proof,
by affidavit, on the part of the defendant ; in which case, it must be made
to the court, or, if the order was granted by a judge, out of court, to any
judge of the court, upon notice ; and it may be opposed by a new proof, by
affidavit, on the part of the plaintifff, tending to sustain any ground of arrest
recited in the order, and no other, unless the defendant relies upon a dis
charge in bankruptcy, or upon a discharge or exoneration, granted in insol
vent proceedings; in which case, the plaintifff may show any matter in
avoidance thereof, which he might show upon the trial.
§ 569. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 570. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 571. [Stricken out byCh. 416 ot 1877.]
§ 672. Supersedeas, unless defendant is charged in execution, etc.
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Except in a case where an order of arrest
can be granted only by the court, if the defendant is in actual custody, by
virtue of an order of arrest in the action, or upon a surrender in exoneration of
his bail, and the plaintifff neglects to enter judgment in the action, within
one month after it is in his power to do so ; or neglects to issue execution
against the person of the defendant, within three months after the entry of
judgment; or, if the surrender was made after the judgment, within three
months after the bail are exonerated thereupon ; the defendant must, wpon his
application, made upon notice to the plaintifff, be discharged from custody,
by the court in which the action was commenced, or by a judge thereof,
within the county where the defendant is in custody ; unless reasonable
cause is shown why the application should not be granted. A defendant
discharged as prescribed in this section, shall not be arrested, upon an exe
cution issued upon a judgment in the action. [Am'd Ch. 35)7 of 1882. See § 2.]
ARTICLE THIRD.
dlschargino the dhpkndast upon bail ob deposit ; jotttptoation op thb bail am)
Dwpositiok op thb Deposit.

Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.
When defendant may elect to give bail, etc., or bond for liberties.
Undertaking of the bail ; what to contain.
Examination of persons offered as bail.
Filing, etc., of papers ; plaintifff's acceptance or rejection of bail.
Notice of justification ; new undertaking, if other bail is given.
Qualifications of bail.
Justification of bail.
Allowance of bail.
Deposit of money with sheriff.
Payment of deposit into court by sheriff.
Substituting bail for deposit.
How deposit disposed of.
When deposit to be paid to a third person.
Sheriff, when liable as bail ; his discharge from liability.
Proceedings on judgment against sheriff.
Bail liable to sheriff.
Filing papers if bail not given.

§ 573. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit The defend
ant, at any time before he is in contempt, where the order can be granted
only by the court, or, in any other case, at any time before execution against
his person, must be discharged from arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon
depositing the sum specified in the order of arrest. The defendant may
give bail, or make the deposit, immediately upon his arrest, at any hour of
the day or night ; and he must have reasonable opportunity to see* for and
to procure bail, before being committed to jail.
§ 574. When defendant may elect to give bail eto., or bond for lib
erties. Where the defendant is actually confined in the jail, by virtue of
an order of arrest, and final or interlocutory judgment has been rendered
against him in the action, but an execution against his person has not been
issued, he may elect, either to give a bond for the liberties of the jail, or to
give bail or make a deposit, as prescribed in this article.
§ 575. Undertaking of the bail ; what to contain. The defendant
may give bail, by delivering to the sheriff a written undertaking, in the sum
specified in the order of arrest, executed by two or more sufficient bail,
stating their places of residence and occupations, to the following effect :
1. If the order of arrest could be granted only by the court, that tha
defendant will obey the direction of the court, or of an appellate court, con
tained in an order or a judgment, requiring him to perform the act specified
in the order ; or in default of his so doing, that he will, at all times, render
himself amenable to proceedings to punish him for the omission.
So in the original.
2. If the action is to recover a chattel, that the defendant will deliver it
to the plaintifff, if delivery thereof is adjudged in the action, and will pay
any sum recovered against him in the action.
3. In any other case, that the defendant will, at all times, render himself
amenable to any mandate, which may be issued to enforce a final judgment
against him in the action.
8 576. Examination of persons offered as bail* [Amended by Ch.
416 of 1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] It is not necessary that the under
taking should be approved, or accompanied with an affidavit of justification
of the bail. But the officer, taking the acknowledgment of the undertaking,
must, if the sheriff so requires, examine und^r oath, to a reasonable extent,
the persons offering to become bail, concerning their property and their cir
cumstances. The examination must be reduced to writing, subscribed by
the bail, and annexed to the undertaking.
§ 577. Delivery of papers ; plaintifff's acceptance or rejection of
bail [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] Within three days after bail is
given, the sheriff must deliver to the plaintifff 's attorney copies, certified by
him, of the order of arrest, return and undertaking. The plaintifff's attor
ney, within ten days thereafter, must serve upon the sheriff a notice that he
does not accept the bail ; otherwise he is deemed to have accepted them,
and the sheriff is exonerated from liability.
§ 578. Notice of justification ; new undertaking if other bail Is
given. Within ten days after the receipt of the notice, the sheriff or the
defendant may serve upon the plaintifff's attorney, notice of the justification
of the same or other bail, specifying the place of residence and occupation
of each of the latter, before a judge of the court, or a county judge, at a
specified time and place ; the time to be not less than five nor more than ten
days thereafter, and the place to be within the county where one of the bail
resides, or where the defendant was arrested. If other bail are given, a
new undertaking must be executed, as prescribed in section five hundred
and seventy-five of this act.
§ 579. Qualifications of bail. The qualifications of bail are as follows :
1. Each of them must be a resident of, and a householder or freeholder
within the State.
2. Each of them must be worth the sum specified in the order of arrest,
exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the judge, on justifica
tion, may allow more than two bail to justify, severally, in sums less than
that specified in the order, if the whole justification is equivalent to that of
two sufficient bail.
§ 580. Justification of bail For the purpose of justification, each of the
bail must attend before the judge, at the time and place mentioned in the
notice, and be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff, touching his
sufficiency, in such manner as the judge, in his discretion, thinks proper.
The judge may, in his discretion, adjourn the examination from day to day,
until it is completed ; but such an adjournment must always be to the next
judicial day, unless by consent of parties. If required by the plaintifff's
attorney, the examination must be reduced to writing, and subscribed by
the bail.
§ 581. Allowance of bail If the judge finds the bail sufficient, he
must annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance
thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk. The sheriff is there
upon exonerated from liability.
§ 582. Deposit of money with sheriff The defendant may, instead of
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the sum specified in the order. The
sheriff must thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the deposit, and
discharge him from custody.
§ 583. Payment of deposit into court by sheriff The sheriff must,
within four days after the deposit, pay it into court. He must take, from
the officer receiving it, two certificates of the payment, one of which he must
deliver to the plaintifff, and the other to the defendant. For a default in
making the payment, the official bond of the sheriff may be prosecuted, as
in any other case of delinquency.
§ 584. Substituting bail for deposit If money is deposited, as pre
scribed in the last two sections, bail may be given, and may justify upon
notice, at any time before the expiration of the right to be discharged on
bail. Thereupon the judge, before whom the justification is had, must
direct, in the order of allowance, that the money deposited be refunded to
the defendant, or his representative, and it must be refunded accordingly.
§ 585. How deposit disposed of If money deposited is not refunded,
as prescribed in the last section, it is, in a case where the order of arrest
could be granted only by the court, subject to the direction of the court, as
justice requires, before and after the judgment. In any other case, if it
remains on deposit, when final judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, it must
be applied, under the direction of the court, in satisfaction of the judgment ;
and the surplus, if any, must be refunded to the defendant, or his represen
tative. If the final judgment is for the defendant, or the action abates, or is
discontinued, the sum deposited, and remaining unapplied, must be refunded
to the defendant or his representative.
§ 586. When deposit to be paid to a third person At any time
before the deposit is paid into court, the defendant may deliver to the sheriff
a written direction, to pay it to a third person, therein specified, in the
event that the defendant becomes entitled to a return thereof, but without
expressing any other contingency. The direction must be acknowledged or
proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded ; and the
sheriff must deliver it to the officer, who receives the deposit, who must note
the substance thereof, with the entries of the deposit, in his books, and upon
the two certificates of payment into court. The money thus deposited is
deemed the property of the third person, subject to the plaintifff's interest
therein, and subject to the rights of a creditor of the defendant where the
direction was given for the purpose of hindering, delaying, or defrauding
creditors. The money, or the residue thereof, must be paid to the third
person, where, by the provisions of the last two sections, it is required to be
refunded to the defendant, or his representative.
§ 587. Sheriff when liable as bail ; his discharge from liability.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] If, after the defendant is arrested, he
escapes or is rescued, or the bail, if any, given by him. do not justify, when
they are not accepted, or if the sheriff fails to pay the deposit into court as
required by section five hundred and eighty-three of this act, the sheriff is
liable as bail. But the sheriff may, except in an action to recover a chattel, dis
charge himself from liability, by the giving and justification of bail as follows :
1. If the case is one where the order could be granted only by the court,
at any time before the court directs the performance of the act specified in
the ord«r.
2. In any other case, at any time before an execution is issued against
the person, of the defendant, upon a judgment in the action.
§ 588. Proceedings on judgment against sheriff If judgment is
recovered against the sheriff, upon his liability as bail, and an execution
thereon is returned wholly or partly unsatisfied, the official bond of the
sheriff may be prosecuted, as in any other case of delinquency.
§ 589. Bail liable to sheriff [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] The bail
taken upon the arrest, unless they justify, or other bail are given and
justify, are liable to the sheriff for all damages which he sustains by reason
of the omission.
§ 590. Filing papers if bail not given. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.]
Within ten days after the defendant is arrested if he does not give bail,
or if he gives bail within ten days after the justification of the bail, the
sheriff must file with the clerk the order of arrest, or, where it was granted
by the court, the certified copy thereof delivered to him, with his return there
upon indorsed, the papers upon which the order of arrest was granted, and
the undertaking given on the part of the plaintifff. Where an order of
arrest, directing the arrest of two or more defendants, has been executed
as to one or more, but not as to all of them, the sheriff may file a copy of
the order of arrest, instead of the original.
ARTICLE FOURTH.
Charging and discharging Bail.
'When defendant may be surrendered.
How surrender to be made ; exoneration of bail thereupon.
Bail may arrest defendant.
Voluntary surrender ; exoneration of bail thereupon.
Rights, etc. ; of sheriff who is liable as bail.
Bail ; how proceeded aginst.
Certain executions necessary before action against bail.
Duty of sheriff on such executions.
Defenses in action against bail.
Relief of bail where principal is imprisoned on criminal charge.
Bail exonerated by death, etc.

§ 591. When defendant may be surrendered. Except in an action to
recover a chattel, the bail may surrender the defendant in their own exon
eration, or the defendant may surrender himself in exoneration of the bail,
before the expiration of the time to answer, in an action against them.
The surrender must be made to the sheriff of the county, where the defend
ant was arrested.
§ 592. How surrender to be made ; exoneration of bail thereupon
Where the bail surrender the defendant, the surrender must be made in the
following manner :
1. They must take the defendant to the sheriff, and require him, in
writing, to take the defendant into his custody.
2. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail must be delivered to
the sheriff, who must detain the defendant in his custody thereupon, as upon
the original mandate, and must, by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the
surrender. Upon the application of the bail, made upon notice to the plain
tiff's attorney, and upon production of the sheriff's certificate and a copy of
the undertaking, a judge of the court, or the county judge of the county
where the action is triable, may make an order, directing that the bail be
exonerated. On filing the order and the papers used on the application
therefore, the bail are exonerated accordingly.
§ 593. Bail may arrest defendant [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at any place or at
any time before they are finally charged, may themselves arrest him, or by
a written authority, indorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may
empower another person to do so ; and one or more of the bail may thus
arrest and surrender the defendant, although the others do not join with
him or them, for that purpose.
§ 594 Voluntary surrender ; exoneration of bail thereupon. Where
the defendant surrenders himself in exoneration of his bail, he must present
himself to the sheriff, and require the sheriff, in writing, to take him into
custody, in exoneration of his bail. The sheriff must detain him accord
ingly, as prescribed in subdivision second of section five hundred and ninetytwo of this act; and, if requested by the bail, at any time after the surrender,
the sheriff must, by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender. An
order for the exoneration of the bail may be procured, as prescribed in section
five hundred and ninety-two of this act.
§ 595. Rights, etc., of sheriff who is liable as bail. Where the sheriff
is liable as bail, he has all the rights and privileges, and is subject to all the
duties and liabilities of bail ; and bail given by him, in order to discharge
himself from liability, must be regarded as the bail of the defendant in the
action. But this section does not apply to an action to recover a chattel ; or
to a case where a defense arises to an action against the bail, in consequence
of an act or omission of the sheriff.
§ 596. Bail ; how proceeded against In case of failure to comply with
the undertaking, the bail may be proceeded against by action, and not
otherwise.
§ 597. Certain executions necessary before action against bail An
action may be brought, as prescribed in the last section, in a case where the
order of arrest could be granted only by the court, at any time after the bail
have failed to comply with their undertaking. Where the undertaking was
given in an action to recover a chattel, an action may be brought thereupon,
at any time after the return, wholly or partly unsatisfied, of an execution for
the delivery of the possession of the chattel, with respect to which the order
of arrest was granted. In any other case, an action cannot be brought, as
prescribed in the last section, until the following requisites have been
complied with :
1. An execution, against the property of the defendant, must have been
issued to the sheriff of the county in which he was arrested, and returned by
that sheriff, wholly or partly unsatisfied.
2. An execution, against the i^rson of the defendant, must have been
issued to the same sheriff, and by him returned, not less than fifteen days
after its receipt, to the effect that the defendant could not be found within
his county.
§ 598. Duty of sheriff on such execution. ["Amended by Ch. 416 or
1877.1 The sheriff must diligently endeavor to enforce an execution issued
and delivered to him, as prescribed in the last section, notwithstanding any
direction he may receive from the plaintifff or his attorney.
§ 599. Defenses in action against bail [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
In an action against bail, it is a defense, that an execution, against the prop
erty, or against the person, of the defendant in the original action, was not
issued, as prescribed in section five hundred and ninety-seven of this act ;
or that it was not issued in sufficient time to enable the sheriff to enforce it ;
117

or that a direction was given, or other fraudulent or collusive means were
used, by the plaintifff or his attorney, to prevent the service thereof.
§ 600. Relief of bail where principal is imprisoned on criminal
charge. If the defendant in the original action, after his discharge upon
bail is imprisoned, either within or without the State, upon a criminal
charge, or a conviction of a criminal offense, the court, in which an action
against the bail is pending, may, before the expiration of the time to answer,
and upon notice to the adverse party, make such an order for the relief of the
bail, as justice requires.
§ 601. Bail exonerated by death, etc. [Amended bt Ch. 416 op 1877.]
Except in an action to recover a chattel, the bail must be exonerated where
either of the following events occurs, before the expiration of the time to
answer in an action against thenu
1. The death of the original defendant.
2. His legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to
the process, direction, or proceedings, with respect to which the undertaking
of the bail was made.
3. His surrender to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested, as
prescribed in this article.
Where either event occurs, after the commencement of the action against
the bail, the court may, in its discretion, impose the payment of the plaintifff's
costs and expenses, incurred after the return of the execution against the
person, as a condition of allowing the exoneration. And the court may, by
an order, made upon notice to the adverse party, grant such further time as
it deems just, after answer, for the surrender of the original defendant. In
that case, his surrender, within the time so granted, has the same effect as
if it had been made before answer.

Writ of injunction abolished, and order substituted.
Injunction, when the right thereto depends upon the nature of the action.
Id. ; when the right thereto depends upon extrinsic facts.
Restrictions upon injunctions to restrain State officers.
By whom injunction granted in other cases.
Proof necessary to procure injunction.
At what time the order may be granted.
When notice required or not required. Injunction pending an application.
Order must recite grounds; service of order.
^ 602. Writ of injunction abolished, and order substituted The
writ of injunction has been abolished. A temporary injunction may be
granted by order, as prescribed in this article.
§ 603. Injunction, when the right thereto depends upon the nature
of the action. Where it appears, from the complaint, that the plaintifff "X'
demands, and is entitled to a judgment against the defendant, restraining
the commission or continuance of an act, the commission or continuance of
•which, during the pendency of the action, would produce injury to the
plaintifff, an injunction order may be granted to restrain it. The case, pro
vided ftfr in this section, is described in this act, as a case where the right
to an injunction depends upon the nature of the action.
§ 604. Id. ; when the right thereto depends upon extrinsic facts. \/
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.J In either of the following cases, an injunc- ^
tion order may also be granted in an action :
1. Where it appears, by affidavit, that the defendant, during the pen
dency of the action, is doing, or procuring, or suffering to be done, or threat
ens, or is about to do, or to procure, or suffer to be done, an act, in violation
of the plaintifff's rights, respecting the subject of the action, and tending to
render the judgment ineffectual, an injunction order may be granted to
restrain him therefrom.
2. Where it appears, by affidavit, that the defendant, during the pendency
of the action, threatens, or is about to remove, or to dispose of his property,
with intent to defraud the plaintifff, an injunction order may be granted, to
restrain the removal or disposition.
J; 605. Restrictions upon injunction to restrain State officers. Where
uty is imposed by statute upon a State officer, or board of State officers,
an injunction order to restrain him or them, or a person employed by him
or them, from the performance of that duty, or to prevent the execution of
the statute, shall not be granted, except by the supreme court, at a general
term thereof, sitting in ' the department in which the officer or board is
located, or the duty is required to be performed ; and upon notice of the
application therefore to the officer, board, or other person to be restrained.
§ 606. By whom injunction granted in other cases Except where it
is otherwise specially prescribed by law, an injunction order may be granted
by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, or by any
county judge ; and where it is granted by a judge, it may be enforced as
the order of the court.
§ 607. Proof necessary to procure injunction [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877.] The order may be granted, where it appears to the court or judge,
by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or any other person, that sufficient grounds
exist therefore.
§ 608. At what time the order may be granted [Amended by Ch.
41o op 1877.] The order may be granted to accompany the summons, or at X
any time after the commencement of the action, and before final judgment.
§ 609. When notice required or not required. Injunction pending
an application [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The order may be
granted, upon or without notice in the discretion of the court or judge, unless
the defendant has answered ; in which case, it can be granted only upon
notice, or an order to show cause. Where an application for an injunction
is made upon notice, or an order to show cause, either before or after answer,
the court or judge may enjoin the defendant, until the hearing and decision
of the application.
8 610. Order must recite grounds ; service of order. The injunction
order must briefly recite the grounds for the injunction. Where it is granted
by the court, it must be served by delivering a certified copy thereof ; where
it is granted by a judge, it must be served by showing the original order,
and delivering a copy thereof. Service of the order, upon a corporation,
may be made as prescribed in this act, for making personal service of a sum
mons upon a corporation. Copies of the papers, upon which the order was
granted, must be delivered with the copy of the order.

Security, on staying' proceedings in an action, before trial.
Id. ; after trial, and before judgment.
Id. j after judgment.
Money deposited may be paid over.
Undertaking to be cancelled thereupon.
Security, on staying proceedings after verdict, in ejectment or dowei.
Id. ; damages to include waste.
Deposit may be dispensed with.
Undertaking and deposit ; when dispensed with.
Security in other cases.
Special cases excepted.
When undertaking deemed forfeited.
Damages ; how ascertained.
Damages sustained by a third person.
Action on the undertaking.

§611. Security, on staying proceedings in an action, before triaL
An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay the trial of an action, in
which the complaint demands judgment for a sum of money only, after issue
has been joined therein, unless the party applying therefore gives an under
taking to the party enjoined, with sufficient sureties, to the effect, that he
will pay to the party enjoined, or his representative, all damages and costs,
which may be recovered by him in the action stayed by the injunction, not
exceeding a sum, specified in the undertaking ; and, also, all damages and
costs that may be awarded to him in the action in which the injunction order
is granted.
§ 612. Id. ; after trial, and before judgment. An injunction order shall
not be granted, to stay proceedings in an action specified in the last section,
after verdict, report, or decision, and before final judgment thereupon, unless
a sum of money, sufficient to cover the sum awarded by the verdict, report,
or decision, and the costs of the action, is first paid, by the party applying
for the injunction into the court, in which his action is commenced, or an
undertaking for the payment thereof, with interest, is given, as prescribed
in this article.
§ 613. Id. ; after judgment. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] An in
junction order shall not be granted, to stay proceedings upon a judgment
for a sum of money, unless the following requisites are complied with, by the
party applying therefore :
1. The full amount of the judgment, including interest and costs, must be
paid by him, into the court in which his action is commenced ; or an under
taking in lieu thereof must be given, as prescribed in this article.
2. He must also give an undertaking, with sufficient sureties, to pay to
« Stricken out by ch. 416 of 1877.
the party enjoined all damages and costs which may be awarded to him by
the court, in the action in which the injunction order is granted ; not ex
ceeding a sum specified in the undertaking.
§ 614. Money deposited may be paid over. Money paid into court,
as prescribed in the last two sections, may be paid over, by the direction of
the court, to the party whose proceedings are stayed, upon his giving an
fixed by the court, to pay the money and interest, or any part thereof, as
directed in the order or judgment of the court.
§ 615. Undertaking to be cancelled thereupon. Where money so paid
into court has been paid over to the party whose proceedings are stayed, if
the final decision of the action, in which the injunction order is granted, is
against the party obtaining it, the court must give such directions, as justice
requires, with respect to cancelling the undertaking given by the successful
party ; making perpetual the injunction staying collection of the judgment ;
and requiring the judgment to be discharged of record.
§ 616. Security on staying proceedings after verdict, in ejectment
or dower. An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay proceedings iu
an action of ejectment, or for dower, after verdict, report or decision, unless
the party applying therefore gives an undertaking, with sufficient sureties, to
pay to the party enjoined, or his representative, all damages and costs, not
exceeding a sum specified in the undertaking, which may be awarded to
him, in the action wherein the injunction was granted.
§ 617. Id ; damages to include waste. Where an undertaking is given,
as prescribed in the last section, the damages to be paid, upon the vacating
of the injunction order, or the decision of the action against the party obtain
ing it, include, not only the reasonable rents and profits of the real property,
recovered by the verdict, report, or decision, but all waste committed upon
the property, after the granting of the injunction.
§ 618. Deposit may be dispensed with. In a case, where money is
required by the foregoing sections of this article, to be paid into court, the
court or judge may dispense with the payment, and may require the party
to give, in lieu thereof, an undertaking, with two or more sureties, to pay the
sum specified, with interest, as directed by the court. If an undertaking is
required, in addition to the deposit, both undertakings may be contained in
the same instrument, at the election of the party applying for the injunction,
§ 619. Undertaking and deposit ; when dispensed with. The fore
going sections of this article do not apply to a case, where an injunction
order is applied for, to stay proceedings in another action, on the ground that
a judgment, verdict, report, or decision therein was obtained by actual fraud.
In that case, the court or judge granting the injunction order may dispense
with the deposit of money, or the execution of an undertaking, except as
prescribed in the next section.
§ 620. Security in other cases. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where
special provision is not otherwise made by law for the security to be given
upon an injunction order, the party applying therefore must give an under
taking, executed by him or by one or more sureties, as the court or judge
directs, to the effect, that the plaintifff will pay to the party enjoined, such
damages, not exceeding a sum, specified in the undertaking, as he may sus
tain by reason of the injunction, if the court finally decides that the plaintifff
was not entitled thereto.
§ 621. Special cases excepted. The foregoing provisions of this article
r do not affect any special statutory provision, whereby security upon granting
s an injunction order may be dispensed with, in a particular case, or the
security to be given in a particular case is otherwise regulated.
§ 622. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 623. Damages how ascertained. [Amended by Cn. 416 of 1877.1 The
damages, sustained
determined by the court, or by a referee, appointed by the court, or by a
writ of inquiry or otherwise as the court 6hall direct ; and the decision of the
court thereupon, or an order confirming the report of the referee, is conclusive,
as to the amount of those damages, upon all the persons who have executed
the undertaking, unless it is reversed upon appeal. The court may, in its dis
cretion, direct that the sureties have notice of the hearing, or of an appeal,
and may prescribe the time and manner of giving them notice.
§ 624. Damages sustained by a third person. "Where the defendant
enjoined was an officer of a corporation, or joint stock association, or a bailee,
agent, trustee, or other representative of another, and the damages sustained
by him, are less than the sum specified in the undertaking, the court or
the referee may also separately ascertain and determine the damages sus
tained, by reason of the injunction, by the corporation, association, orperson,
whom the defendant represents, to an amount not exceeding the surplus of
the sum specified in the undertaking ; and those damages may be recovered
in a separate action, brought as prescribed in the next section.
§ 625. Action on the undertaking Where the damages have been
ascertained by the decision of the court, or the confirmation of a referee's
report, as prescribed in the last two sections, any person, entitled to the
benefit of an undertaking, executed pursuant to the provisions of this title,
may bring an action thereon, without further leave of the court.

§ 626. Application to vacate or modify without notice. Where the
injunction order was granted without notice, the party enjoined may apply,
upon the papers upon which it was granted, for an order vacating or modi
fying the injunction order. Such an application may be made, without
notice, to the judge who- granted the order, or who held the term of the
court where it was granted ; or to the general term of the court. It cannot be
made without notice, to any other judge or term, unless the applicant pro
duces proof, by affidavit, that, by reason of the absence or other disability
of the judge who granted the order, the application cannot be made to him;
• Stricken out by Ch. 118 of 1877.
and that the applicant will be exposed to great injury, by the delay required
for an application upon notice. The affidavit must be filed with the clerk ;
and a copy thereof, and of the order vacating or modifying the injunction
order, must be served upon the plaintifff's attorney, before that order takes
effect.
§ 627. Id. ; upon notice. [Amendbd by Ch. 416 op 1877 and by Ch. 542
of 1879.] "Where the injunction order was granted without notice, or where
it was granted upon notice, with leave to apply to vacate or modify it, the
party enjoined may apply upon notice, to the judge who granted it, or to
the court, at a term where a contested motion in the action may be heard,
■« for an order, vacating or modifying the injunction order. (Such an application
may be founded upon the papers upon which the injunction was granted;
or upon proof, by affidavit, on the part of the defendant ; or both. Where
it is founded upon proof on the part of the defendant, it may be opposed by
new proof by affidavit, on the part of the plaintifff, tending to sustain the
injunction.
§ 628. When prior motion not to prejudice subsequent application
The granting or denial of an application, made as prescribed in the last sec
tion, founded only upon the papers upon which the injunction order was
granted, does not prejudice a subsequent application, seasonably made,
founded upon proof, by affidavit, on the part of the defendant. And the
granting or denial of either application does not prejudice a subsequent appli
cation, seasonably made, founded upon the failure of a complaint, which had
not been made at the time of the former application, to set forth a cause of
action, sufficient to entitle the plaintifff to the injunction order, upon one or
more grounds, recited therein.
§ 629. New undertaking may be required. Upon the hearing of an
application upon notice, to vacate or modify an injunction order, the court
or judge may require a new undertaking, in the same or in a different sum,
to be given by the plaintifff, with the like sureties, and to the like effect, as
upon granting an original order. The persons executing the new undertak
ing become liable thereon, as if they had executed it upon the granting of
the original order. The persons who executed the original undertaking
remain liable thereon, until the new undertaking is given and approved, and
no longer. Upon such hearing the court or judge rcfwJC where the alleged wrong
or injury is not irreparable and is capable of being adequately compensated for in
money, vacate the injunction order upon the defendant's executing an undertaking
in such, form and amount and with such sureties as the court or judge shall direct,
conditioned to indemnify the plaintifff against any loss sustained by reason of
vacating such injunction order. [Am'd Ch. 404 op 1883.]
§ 630. Verified answer to have the effect only of an affidavit. Upon
the hearing of a contested application for an injunction order, or to vacate or
modify such an order, a verified answer has the effect only of an affidavit.
§ 635. In what actions a warrant of attachment may be granted.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.J A warrant of attachment against the
property of one or more defendants in an action, may be granted upon the
application of the plaintifff, as specified in the next session,* where the action
is to recover a sum of money only as damag.es for one or more of the follow
ing causes :
1. Breach of contract, express or implied, other than a contract to marry.
2. Wrongful conversion of personal property.
3. Any other injury to personal property, in consequence of negligence,
fraud, or other wrongful act.
§ 636. What must be shown to procure the warrant [Amended
by Ch. 416 of 1877.] To entitle the plaintifff to such a warrant, he must
show, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the judge granting the same, as
follows :
1. That one of the causes of action specified in the last section exists
against the defendant. If the action is to recover damages for breach of a
contract, the affidavit must show that the plaintifff is entitled to recover a
sum stated therein, over and above all counterclaims known to him.
2. That the defendant is either a foreign corporation or not a resident of
the State ; or, if he is a natural person and a resident of the State, that he
has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the
service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like
intent ; or, if the defendant is a natural person, or a domestic corporation,
that he or it has removed, or is about to remove, property from the State,
with intent to defraud his or its creditors ; or has assigned, disposed of or
•So in tbe original.
124
secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete property, with the like
intent.
§ 637. Warrant in action against public officer, etc., for peculation.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] A warrant of attachment, against the
property of one or more defendants in an action, may also be granted, upon
the application of the plaintifff, where the complaint demands judgment
for a sum of money only ; and it appears, by affidavit, that the action is
brought to recover money, funds, credits, or other property, held or
owned by the State, or held or owned, officially or otherwise, for or in
behalf of a public or governmental interest, by a municipal or other public
corporation, board, officer, custodian, agency or agent of the State, or of a
city, county, town, village, or other division, subdivision, department, or
portion of the State, which the defendant, has, without right, obtained,
received, converted or disposed of ; or in the obtaining, reception, payment,
conversion, or disposition of which, without right, he has aided or abetted;
or to recover damages for so obtaining, receiving, paying, converting, or dis
posing of the same ; or the aiding or abetting thereof. In order to entitle
the plaintifff to a warrant of attachment, in a case specified in this section,
he must show, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the judge granting it, that
a sufficient cause of action exists against the defendant, for a sum, stated in
the affidavit.
§ 638. When and by whom the warrant may be granted. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The warrant may be granted by a judge of the court,
or by any county judge to accompany the summons, or at any time after the
commencement of the action, and before final judgment therein. Personal
service of the summons must be made upon the defendant, against whose
property the warrant is granted, within thirty days after the granting
thereof; or else, before the expiration of the same time, service of the sum
mons by publication must be commenced, or service thereof must be made
without the State, pursuant to an order obtained therefore, as prescribed in
this act ; and if publication has been, or is thereafter commenced, the ser
vice must be made complete, by the continuance thereof.
§ 639. Affidavits to be filed. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The
plaintifff procuring the warrant must, within ten days after the granting
thereof, cause the affidavits, upon which it was granted, to be filed in the
office of the clerk.
§ 640. Security on obtaining warrant. The judge, before granting the
warrant, must require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff,
with sufficient sureties, to the effect, that if the defendant recovers judg
ment, or if the warrant is vacated, the plaintifff will pay all costs, which
may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages, which he may sustain
by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the under
taking, which must be at least two hundred and fifty dollars. But this sec
tion does not apply to a case, where the action is brought for a cause specified
in section six hundred and thirty-seven of this act, or where it is specially
prescribed by law that security may be dispensed with, or where the secu
rity to be given is specially regulated by law.
§ 641. Contents of warrant ; to whom directed The warrant must
be subscribed by the judge and the plaintifff's attorney, and must briefly
recite the ground of the attachment. It may be directed, either to the
sheriff of a particular county, or, generally, to the sheriff of any county. It
must require the sheriff to attach and safely keep, so much of the property,
within his county, which the defendant has, or which he may have, at any
time before final judgment in the action, as will satisfy the plaintifff's de
mand, with costs and expenses. The amount of the plaintifff's demand must
be specified in the warrant, as stated in the affidavit. Warrants may be
issued at the same time, to sheriffs of different counties.
§ 642. Validity of undertaking. It is not a defense to an action upon
an undertaking, given upon granting a warrant of attachment, that the
warrant was granted improperly, for want of jurisdiction, or for any other
cause.
A
§ 643. TStricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§644. Sheriff must attach property of defendant. [Amended by Ch.
of 1877.] The sheriff' must immediately execute the warrant, by
levying upon so much of the personal and real property of the defendant,
within his county, not exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an execution,
as will satisfy the plaintifff's demand, with the costs and expenses. He
must take into his custody all books of account, vouchers, and other papers,
• Stricken oat by Ch. 416 of JOT.
relating to the personal property attached, and all evidences of the defend
ant's title to the real property attached, which he must safely keep, to be
disposed of, as prescribed in this title. The sheriff, to whom a warrant of
attachment is delivered, may levy, from time to time, and as often as is
necessary, until the amount, for which it was issued, has been secured, or
final judgment has been rendered in the action, notwithstanding the expi
ration of his term of office.
§ 645. What interest in real property may be attached. The real
property, which may be levied upon by virtue of a warrant of attachment,
includes any interest in real property, either vested or not vested, which is
capable of being alienated by the defendant.
§ 646. Attachment of unpaid subscription to foreign corporation
Under a warrant of attachment against a foreign corporation, other than a
corporation created by or under the laws of the United States, the sheriff
may levy upon the sum remaining unpaid upon a subscription to the capital
stock of the corporation, made by a person within the county ; or upon one
or more shares of stock therein, held by such a person, or transferred by
him, for the purpose of avoiding payment thereof.
8 647. Id ; interest in corporation The rights or shares which the
defendant has in the stock of an association or corporation, together with
the interests and profits thereon, may be levied upon ; and the sheriff's
certificate of the sale thereof entitles the purchaser to the same rights and
privileges, with respect thereto, which the defendant had, when they were
so attached.
§ 648. Id ; bond, note, etc. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1876.] The
attachment may also be levied upon a cause of action arising upon contract;
including a bond, promissory note, or other instrument for the payment of
money only, negotiable, or otherwise, whether past due, or yet to become
due, executed by a foreign or domestic government, State, county, public
officer, association, municipal or other corporation, or by a private person,
either within or without the State ; which belongs to the defendant, and is
found within the county. The levy of the attachment thereupon is deemed
a levy upon, and a seizure and attachment of, the debts represented
thereby.
8 649. How property to be attached [Amended by Ch. 642 op 1879.]
A levy under a warrant of attachment must be made as follows :
1. Upon real property, by filing with the clerk of the county, where it is
situated, a notice of the attachment, stating the names of the parties to the
action, the amount of the plaintifff's claim, as stated in the warrant, and a
description of the particular property levied upon. The notice must be
subscribed by the plaintifff's attorney, adding his office address ; and must
be recorded and indexed by the clerk, in the same book, in like manner,
and with like effect, as the notice of the pendency of an action.
2. Upon personal property, capable of manual delivery, including a bond,
promissory note, or other instrument for the payment of money, by taking
the same into the sheriff's actual custody. He must thereupon, without
delay, deliver to the person from whose possession the property is taken, if
any, a copy of the warrant, and of the affidavits upon which it was granted.
3. Upon other personal property, by leaving a certified copy of the war
rant, and a notice showing the property attached, with the person holding
the same ; or, if it consists of a demand, other than as specified in the last
subdivision, with the person against whom it exists ; or, if it consists of a
right or share in the stock of an association or corporation, or interest or
profits thereon, with the president, or other head of the association or cor
poration, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof.
§ 650. Certificate of defendant's interest to be furnished. Upon the
application of a sheriff, holding a warrant of attachment, the president or
other head of an association or corporation, or the secretary, cashier, or man
aging agent thereof, or a debtor of the defendant, or a person holding prop
erty, including a bond, promissory note, or other instrument, for the pay
ment of money, belonging to the defendant, must furnish to the sheriff a
certificate, under his hand, specifying the rights or number of shares of the
defendant, in the stock of the association or corporation, with all dividends
declared, or encumbrances thereon ; or the amount, nature, and description
of the property held for the benefit of the defendant, or of the defendant's
interest in property so held, or of the debt or demand owing to the defend
ant as the case requires.
§ 651. Person refusing certificate may be examined. If a person, to
whom application is made, as prescribed in the last section, refuses to give
such a certificate ; or if it is made to appear, by affidavit, to the satisfaction
of the court, or a judge thereof, or the county judge of the county to which
the warrant is issued, that there is reason to suspect that a certificate given
by him is untrue, or that it fails fully to set forth the facts required to be
shown thereby ; the court or judge may make an order directing him to
attend, at a specified time, and at a place within the county to which the
warrant is issued, and submit to an examination under oath, concerning the
same. The order may, in the discretion of the court or judge, direct an
appearance before a referee named therein.
§ 652. Rights of owner or master of vessels by which goods have
been shipped. Except as otherwise prescribed in the next section, the
owner or master of a vessel, on board of which goods of a defendant, against
whom a warrant of attachment is issued, have been shipped for transporta
tion, without reshipment or transshipment .in the State, to a port or place
without the State, may transport and deliver them according to their desti
nation, notwithstanding the warrant ; unless the plaintifff, his agent, or
attorney, executes to the owner or the master of the vessel, a written under
taking, with sufficient sureties, in a sum specified therein, to pay him all
expenses, damages, and charges, which may be incurred by him, or to which
he may be subjected, for unlading the goods from the vessel, and for all
necessary detention of the vessel for that purpose. The undertaking must
be approved, with respect to its form, the Bum specified therein, and the
sufficiency of the sureties, by a judge of the court, or the county judge of the
county wherein the vessel is situated, or, in the city and county of New
York, by a judge of a superior city court within that city and.county.
§ 653. Foregoing section not to apply in certain cases. The last
section does not apply, where the owner or master, before the shipment of
the goods, had actual information of the granting of the warrant, or where
he has, in any wise, connived at, or been privy to, the shipment thereof, for
the purpose of screening them from legal process, or of hindering, delaying,
or defrauding creditors.
§ 654. Sheriff must make inventory. The sheriff must immediately
after levying under a warrant of attachment, make, with the assistance of
two disinterested freeholders, a description of the real property, and a just
and true inventory of the personal property, upon which it was levied, and
of the books, vouchers, and other papers taken into his custody, stating
therein the estimated value of each parcel of real property attached, or of
the interest of the defendant therein, and of each article of personal prop
erty, enumerating such of the latter as are perishable. The inventory must
be signed by the sheriff and the appraisers ; and must within five days after
the levy, be filed in the office of the clerk of the county where the property
is attached.
§ 655. Sheriff may maintain actions. The sheriff must, subject to the
direction of the court or judge, collect and receive all debts, effects, and
things in action, attached by him. He may maintain any action or special
proceeding in his own name, or in the name of the defendant, which is
necessary for that purpose, or to reduce to his actual possession an article of
personal property, capable of manual delivery, but of which he has been
unable- to obtain possession. And he may discontinue such an action or
special proceeding, at such time and on such terms, as the court or judge
directs.
§ 656. Perishable goods arid animals to be sold. [Amended by Ch.
416 op 1877.] If property attached, other than a vessel, is perishable, the
court or judge may, by an order, made with or without notice, as the urgency
of the case, in its or his opinion, requires, direct the sheriff to sell it at public
auction ; and thereupon the sheriff must sell it accordingly. If it consists
of live animals, the same proceedings may be had, but such notice shall be
given to the parties to the action, of the application for the order as the
court or judge prescribes. The order directing the sale must prescribe the
time and place of the sale, and notice thereof must be given in such manner
and for such time as is prescribed in the order. The sheriff must retain in
his hands the proceeds of the sale, after deducting his expenses, as allowed
by the court or judge.
§ 657. Claim of property ; how tried. If the goods or effects, other
than a vessel, attached as the property of the defendant, are claimed by or
in behalf of another person, as his property, the sheriff may, in his dis
cretion, empanel a jury to try the validity of the claim.
§ 658. Proceedings, if claimant succeeds. [Amended by Ch. 416 op
1877.] If, by their inquisition, the jury find the property of the goods or
effects to have been in the claimant at the time of the levy, the sheriff must
forthwith deliver them to him or his agent ; unless the plaintifff gives an
undertaking with sufficient sureties, to indemnify the sheriff for the deten
tion thereof/ If the undertaking is given, the sheriff must detain the goods
or effects, as the property of the defendant.
§ 659. Finding not to prejudicejright of claimant. If the property is
found to be in the defendant, the finding does not prejudice the right of the
claimant to bring an action, to recover the goods or effects, or the value
thereof.
§ 660. Proceedings on claim to domestic vessel. Where a vessel,
belonging to a port or place in the United States, or a share or interest
therein, is attached, the court or judge, on the application, within thirty
days thereafter, of a person claiming title thereto, or of his agent, must
appoint three indifferent persons to make a valuation thereof.
§ 661. Appraisers to be sworn ; valuation to be returned. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] A valuation of a vessel, or of a share or interest
therein, made as prescribed in this article, must be in writing, and sub
scribed by the appraisers ; each of whom must take and subscribe an affi
davit, annexed thereto, to the effect that the valuation is, in all respects,
just and fair, and that the value of the vessel, share, or interest, is truly stated therein, according to the deponent's belief. The valuation must be
immediately returned to the court or judge ; and, after an undertaking is
given, or after the expiration of the time to give an undertaking, as pre
scribed in the next section, it must be delivered to the sheriff.
§ 662. Undertaking to be given. Within two days after the valuation
is returned, the claimant or his agent may execute an undertaking to the
sheriff, with sufficient sureties, approved by the court or judge, who must
justify in twice the appraised value, to the effect, that, in an action to be
brought on the undertaking, the claimant will establish that he was the
owner of the vessel, share or interest, at the time of the levy thereupon ; and
that, in case of his failure to do so, he will pay the amount of the valuation,
with interest from the date of the undertaking, to the sheriff; or, if the
warrant is vacated or annulled, to the defendant, or his personal repre
sentative.
§ 663. Vessel ; when to be discharged. Upon such an undertaking
being executed and delivered to the sheriff, the court or judge must make an
order, directing the vessel or share to be discharged from the attachment.
Thereupon the sheriff must discharge the same accordingly.
§ 664. When undertaking to be sued. The court or judge may, upon
the application of either party, at any time before the warrant is vacated or
annulled, direct the sheriff to commence an action upon the undertaking,
upon such terms and conditions, and under such regulations, between him
and the applicant, as it or he deems just. And if the warrant of attach
ment is vacated or annulled, the defendant in the attachment, his assignee,
or personal representative, may commence and maintain an action upon the
undertaking, or may be substituted in place of the sheriff, in an action
pending thereupon.
§ 665. Defence in such an action ; plaintifff's recovery. In such an
action, the claimant may show, in a bar of a recovery, that he was the owner
of the vessel, share, or interest, at the time when it was at tached. If judg
ment passes against him, the plaintifff is entitled to recover the amount of
the valuation, with interest from the date of the undertaking.
§ 666. Foreign vessel, how valued. Where a foreign vessel, or a share
or interest therein, is attached, it must be valued, as prescribed in sections
six hundred and sixty and six hundred and sixty-one of this act, upon the
application of a person, who makes affidavit, to the effect that he is the
owner thereof, or that he is the agent of a person, naming him and his resi
dence, whom he believes to be the owner of the vessel, share or interest
attached.
§ 667. Notice thereof; [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Such notice
of the application must be given to the plaintifff, as the court, or judge deems
reasonable.
8 668. Plaintiff to give undertaking with sureties. Within three days
after the valuation is returned, the plaintifff must give, to the person in whose
behalf the claim is made, an undertaking, with sufficient sureties, approved
by the court or judge, who must justify in twice the appraised value, to the
effect that they will pay such damages as may be recovered for seizing the
vessel, share, or interest, in an action brought against the sheriff, or the
plaintifff in the attachment, within three months from the approval of the
undertaking, if it appears therein that the vessel, share, or interest belonged,
at the time of attaching it, to the person in whose behalf the claim is made.
§ 669. Vessel ; when to be discharged. Unless such an undertaking
is given, the court or judge must grant an order discharging the vessel,
share, or interest so claimed, from the attachment ; whereupon the sheriff
must discharge the same accordingly.
8 670. Terms on which debtor may claim vesseL If, after such an
undertaking is given by the plaintifff, the warrant is vacated or annulled, or
the attachment is discharged as to the vessel, share or interest, the defendant
or his agent is entitled to claim the same, or the proceeds thereof, if it has
been sold, only upon his showing, to the satisfaction of the court or judge,
that the undertaking has been discharged ; or giving to the plaintifff an
undertaking, with sufficient sureties, approved by the court or judge, who
must justify in twice the appraised value, to the effect, that they will indem
nify the plaintifff against all charges and expenses, in consequence of the
undertaking.
§ 671. When vessel to be sold. If the undertaking of the plaintifff is
not discharged, or he is not indemnified, as prescribed in this article, within
one month after the defendant becomes entitled to claim the vessel, share, or
interest, as so prescribed, it may be sold by the sheriff, in whose custody it
is, upon an order of the court or judge; and the proceeds of the sale must
be paid to the persons who executed the undertaking, for their indemnity.
§ 672. The same. If a claim is not made, by or in behalf of an owner of
a domestic vessel, or of a share or interest therein, within thirty days after
it is attached, or if the proper undertaking is not executed by the claimant ;
or if a claim is not made, within that time, by or in behalf of the owner of a
foreign vessel, or of a share or interest therein ; the vessel, share, or interest,
may be sold by the sheriff, under an order of the court or judge, upon the
application of the plaintifff, if, in the opinion of the court or judge, a sale is
necessary.
§ 673. The same. Where a share or interest in a vessel, foreign or
domestic, is attached, if the proper claim to it is not made, by or in behalf of
an owner thereof, within thirty days thereafter, it may be sold by the sheriff,
under an order of the court or judge, upon the application of a joint owner,
or his agent.
§ 674. Sheriff to keep property. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The
sheriff must keep the property attached by him, or the proceeds of property
sold, or of a demand collected by him, to answer any judgment that may be
obtained against the defendant in the action.
§ 675. Sheriff may be directed to pay money into court. But the
court, upon the application of either party to the action, may direct the
sheriff, either before or after the expiration of his term of office, to pay into
court the proceeds of a demand collected, or property sold ; or to deposit
them in a designated bank or trust company, to be drawn out only upon the
order of the court.
§ 676. When he may be directed to release or deliver property.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where the proceeds of the property sold,
and of the demands collected by the sheriff, exceed the amount of the plain
tiff's demand, with the costs and expenses, and of all other warrants of
attachment or executions in the sheriff's hands, chargeable upon the same ;
the court, or the judge who granted the warrant, upon the application of the
defendant, or of an assignee of, or purchaser from the defendant, and upon
notice to the plaintifff, and the plaintifffs in the other warrants or executions,
may, at any time during the pendency of the action, make an order, directing the sheriff to pay over the surplus to the applicant, and to release from
the attachment the remaining real and personal property attached.
§ 677. Plaintiff may bring action in name of himself and the sheriff.
The plaintifff, by leave of the court or judge, procured as prescribed in the
next section, may bring and maintain, in the name of himself and the sheriff
jointly, by his own attorney, and at his own expense, any action which, by
the provisions of this title, may be brought by the sheriff, to Tecover property
attached, or the value thereof, or a demand attached, or upon an undertaking
given as prescribed in this title, by a person other than the plaintifff. The
sheriff must receive the proceeds of such an action, but he is not liable for
the costs or expenses thereof. Costs may be awarded, in such an action,
against the plaintifff in the warrant, but not against the sheriff.
§ 678. How leave to bring such action procured. The court or judge
must grant leave to bring such an action, where it appears, that due notice
of the application therefore has been given to the sheriff ; but before doing
so, the court or judge may require that notice of the application be given to
the plaintifff, in any other warrant against the same defendant. And such
terms, conditions, and regulations may be imposed, in the order granting
leave, as the court or judge thinks proper, for the due protection of the rights
and interests of all persons, interested in the disposition of the proceeds of
the action.
§ 679. Plaintiff may be joined with sheriff; after action commenced.
Leave may, in like manner and in like effect, be granted to the plaintifff in
the warrant, to be joined with the sheriff, in an action brought by the sheriff,
in a case where he might have procured leave to bring the action, as pre
scribed in the last two sections. Upon an application therefore, the court or
judge may, in a proper case, require the plaintifff to provide for the expenses
in the action, already incurred by the sheriff. The application must be
denied, in case of an unreasonable delay in making it ; or where an appli
cation was made, before the action was brought, and the plaintifff neglected
or refused, without a good excuse therefore, to comply with the terms, condi
tions or regulations then imposed.
§ 680. Judge to direct as to management of such an action, etc.
The court or judge may, upon the application of the sheriff, or of the defend
ant in the warrant, during the pendency of an action, brought as prescribed
in the last three sections, direct as to the conduct, discontinuance, or settle
ment of the same, and as to the application or disposition of the money or
property recovered therein, as justice requires.
§ 681. Return of inventory ; how enforced. Upon the application of
either party, and proof of the neglect of the sheriff, the court or judge may,
by order, require the sheriff to return an inventory. Disobedience to such
an order may be punished, as a contempt of the court.
\
ARTICLE THIRD.
Vacating or modifying the Warrant ; discharging thb Attachment.
Section 682. Motion to vacate or modify warrant, or increase security.
683. How motion must be made ; opposing it by new proofs
*684, *685. Questions of fact arising1 on the motion.
684, 685 stricken oat by Ch. 416 of 1877.
When prior motion not to prejudice subsequent motion.
Defendant may apply for discharge of attachment.
Undertaking' to be given.
Application by one of several defendants.
Sureties to justify if required.
Sheriff may retain property until justification.
Foregoing provisions applicable to vessels.
Partners may apply to discharge attachment.
Undertaking to be given.
Court or judge may ascertain value.
When plaintifff entitled to notice of any application, etc.

§ 682. Motion to vacate or modify warrant, or increase security.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The defendant, or a person who has
acquired a lien upon, or interest in, his property, after it was attached, may,
at any time before the actual application of the attached property, or the
proceeds thereof, to the payment of a judgment recovered in the action, apply
to vacate or modify the warrant, or to increase the security, given by the
plaintifff, or for one or more of those forms of relief, together, or in the alter
native.
§ 683. How motion must be made ; opposing it by new proofs. An
application, specified in the last section, may be founded only upon the
papers upon which the warrant was granted ; in which case it must be made
to the court, or, if the warrant was granted by a judge out of court, to the
same judge, in court or out of court, and with or without notice, as he deems
proper. Or it may be founded upon proof, by affidavit, on the part of the
defendant, in ' which case, it must be made to the court, or, if the warrant
was granted by a judge out of court, to any judge of the court, upon notice ;
and it maybe opposed by new proof, by affidavit, on the part of the plaintifff,
tending to sustain any ground for the attachment, recited in the warrant,
and no other, unless the defendant relies upon a discharge in bankruptcy,
or upon a discharge or exoneration, granted in insolvent proceedings ; in
which case, the plaintifff may show any matter, in avoidance thereof, which
he might show upon the trial.
§ 684. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 685. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 686. When prior motion not to prejudice subsequent motion.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The denial of such an application does
not prejudice a subsequent application, seasonable* made, founded upon the
failure of a complaint, which had not been filed or served at the time of the
former application, to set forth any of the causes of action, mentioned in
section six hundred and thirty-five and section six hundred and thirty-seven
of this act,
§ 687. Defendant may apply for discharge of attachment. The
defendant may, at any time after he has appeared in the action, and before
final judgment, apply to the judge who granted the warrant, or to the court
for an order to discharge the attachment, as to the whole or a part of the
property attached.
§ 688. Undertaking to be given. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Upon
such an application, the defendant must give an undertaking, with at
least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that he will, on demand, pay to the
plaintifff the amount of any judgment which may be recovered in the action
against him, not exceeding a sum specified in the undertaking, with interest,
* So iu the original.
The sum so specified must be at least equal to the amount of the plaintifff's
demand, as specified in his affidavit ; or, at the option of the defendant,
equal to the appraised value, according to the inventory, of the property
attached ; or, if the application is to discharge the attachment, as to a part
only of the property attached, to the appraised value of that portion.
§ 689. Application by one of several defendants. Where there are
two or more defendants, and an application is made, as prescribed in the
last two sections, by one or more, but not by all of them, the undertaking
must provide for the payment of any judgment, which maybe recovered
against any of the defendants in the action, unless the applicant makes
proof by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court or judge, that the prop
erty, with respect to which the application is made, belongs to him sepa
rately ; in which case, the undertaking must provide for the payment of any
judgment, which may be recovered in the action against the applicant, either
alone or jointly with any other defendant. Where an application is made, as
prescribed in this section, at least two days notice thereof, with a copy of the
affidavit, must be served upon the plaintifff's attorney, who may oppose the
application by proof, by affidavit, that one or more of the other defendant's
own, or have an interest in the property.
§ 690. Sureties to justify if required. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
An undertaking, given as prescribed in the last two sections, must be forth
with filed with the clerk. A copy thereof, with a notice of the filing must
be forthwith served upon the plaintifff 's attorney; who may, within three
days thereafter, give notice to the sheriff, that he excepts to the sufficiency
of the sureties. Thereupon the sureties must justify, upon the like notice,
and in like manner, as bail upon an arrest ; or a new undertaking must be
given, with new sureties, who must justify in like manner. If the plaintifff
does not except, as prescribed in this section, he is deemed to have waived
all objections to the sureties.
§ 691. Sheriff may retain property until justification The sheriff is
responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties: and he may retain possession
of the property attached, and the proceeds thereof, until the objection to
them is waived, as prescribed in the last section, or they or the new sureties,
justify.
§ 692. Foregoing provisions applicable to vessels. The last five
sections are applicable, where a vessel, or a share or interest therein is
attached. If it is necessary to enable the defendant to discharge the
attachment, the court or judge may, by order, stay any proceedings specified
in article second of this title, or extend the time to do any act therein
specified.
§ 693. Partners may apply to discharge attachment. If a warrant
of attachment is levied upon the interest of one or more partners, in goods
or chattels of a partnership, the other partners, who are not defendants in
the action, or any of them, may at any time before final judgment, apply to
the judge who granted the warrant, or to the court, upon an affidavit showing
the facts, for an order to discharge the attachment, as to that interest.
§ 694. Undertaking to be given. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
Upon such an application, the applicant must pive an undertaking, with at
least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that they will pay to the sheriff, on
demand, the amount of any judgment which may be recovered aguinst the
partner who is defendant in the action ; or which may be recovered against
him, in any other action, wherein the other partners are not defendants, and wherein a •warrant of attachment, or an execution, may come to the
sheriff's hand, at any time before the warrant of attachment, which was so
levied, is vacated or annulled ; not exceeding a sum, specified in the under
taking, which must not be less than the value of the interest of the defend
ant, in the goods or chattels seized by virtue of the attachment, as fixed by
the court or judge ; if the value, in the opinion of the court or judge, is
uncertain, the sum shall be such as the court or judge determines.
§ 695. Court or judge may ascertain value. For the purpose of fixing
the sum, or determining the sufficiency of the sureties, the court or judge
may receive affidavits or oral testimony, or may direct a reference.
§ 696 When plaintifff entitled to notice of any application, etc.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The court or judge may direct, that the
plaintifff have notice of an application for a discharge of property, as pre
scribed in this article, or of the hearing under an order of reference, made
as prescribed in the last section ; and, if the applicant does not appear,
where notice has been given, the application may be dismissed or denied.
Preferences of two or more warrants.
Rule as to levy under a junior warrant.
Subsequent warrants to be under control of judge, who issued first warrant.
The last section qualified.
Undertaking, by junior attaching creditor, to prevent release of foreign
vessel.
Rule as to subsequent attachment of foreign vessel.
Rights of junior plaintifff in action by senior plaintifff and sheriff jointly.
Junior plaintifff may be allowed to commence action jointly with sheriff.
Rights of third and other subsequent attaching creditors.

§ 697. Preferences of two or more warrants. Where two or more war
rants of attachment against the same defendant, are delivered to the sheriff of
the same county, to be executed, their respective preferences, and the rules,
where a levy, or a levy and sale, have been made under a junior warrant, are
the same, as where two or more executions, against the property of the same
defendant, are delivered to the sheriff of the same county, to be executed.
§ 698. Rules as to levy under a junior attachment. Where a domestic
vessel, or a share or interest therein, has been attached, and afterwards
released, as prescribed in this title ; or where the personal property of a
partnership, of which the defendant was a member, has been attached, and
the attachment afterwards discharged, upon the application of another part
ner, as prescribed in this title ; another warrant, against the same defendant,
shall not be levied on the same property, by the sheriff of the same or of any
other county, until after the first warrant has been vacated or annulled. But,
except as thus prescribed, where a second warrant, against the same defend
ant, is delivered to the same sheriff, he must execute it, by a levy upon
property within his county, and he must thereupon take the same proceed
ings, as if the levy was made under the first warrant.
§ 699. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 700. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
•Stricken oat by Ch. 416 of 1877:
§ 701. Undertaking by junior attaching creditor, to prevent release
of foreign vessel. Where a foreign vessel, or a share or interest therein,
has been attached and valued, as prescribed in article second of this title,
and the plaintifff, in the first warrant of attachment, fails to give an under
taking to prevent the release thereof, the court or judge may grant to the
plaintifff in a second warrant, then in the sheriff's hands for execution, an
extension, of not more than three days thereafter, within which to furnish
an undertaking, in all respects like the one to be furnished by the first
plaintifff. And if he furnishes it, within that time, he has the same rights
and privileges, and is subject to the same duties and liabilities, with respect
to the vessel and its proceeds, and the subsequent proceedings relating
thereto, as if his was the first warrant.
§ 762. Rule as to subsequent attachment of foreign vessel. If a for
eign vessel, ov a share or interest therein, has been attached, and afterwards
released, by reason of the failure of the plaintifff, in the first or the second
warrant, to give an undertaking to prevent the release, it shall not be again
attached, under warrant against the same defendant, which had been deliv
ered to the sheriff of the same county, before the expiration of the time
within which the undertaking should have been furnished. But it may be
again attached, under a subsequent warrant against the same defendant ;
in which case, the plaintifff therein, and the plaintifff in each warrant subse
quently delivered to the sheriff, have the same rights, and privileges, and
are subject to the same duties and liabilities, with respect to the vessel and
its proceeds, and the subsequent proceedings relating thereto, as if the war
rant, under which it was attached, was the first warrant.
§ 703. Rights of junior plaintifff in action by senior plaintifff and
sheriff jointly. Where the plaintifff in a warrant of attachment has com
menced an action, in the name of himself and the sheriff jointly, as prescribed
in this title, a plaintifff in a junior warrant may apply to the court or judge,
to direct as to the conduct, discontinuance, or settlement of the same, or to
impose terms, conditions, and regulations as to the continuance thereof, in
the interest of the applicant ; and such order may be made thereupon, as
justice requires. If the first warrant is vacated, or the attachment thereunder
is released or discharged, without affecting the cause of action prosecuted by
the plaintifff therein and the sheriff jointly, the plaintifff in the warrant next
in order, may, upon his own application, be substituted as joint plaintifff with
the sheriff, by an order, made as upon an application for leave to bring such
an action.
§ 704. Junior plaintifff may be allowed to commence action jointly
with sheriff A plaintifff in a second warrant may apply to the court or
judge, upon notice to the plaintifff in the first warrant, and to the sheriff, for
leave to bring and maintain, in the name of himself and the sheriff jointly,
any action, which might be brought in the name of the senior plaintifff and
the sheriff. If it appears that the plaintifff in the first warrant neglects or
refuses to bo joined with the sheriff in such an aclion, or to comply with the
terms, conditions, and regulations, imposed, either upon granting him an
order for that purpose, or upon the hearing of an application, made as pre
scribed in this section, the court or judge may grant to the plaintifff in the
second warrant, leave to bring and maintain such an action, in the name of
himself and the sheriff jointly, with like effect, as if his was the first warrant.
8 705. Rights of third and other subsequent attaching creditors.
Where there are more than two warrants of attachment, against the same
defendant, the plaintifffs in the third and each subsequent warrant have, according to their respective priorities, the same rights and privileges, as
against the plaintifffs in all senior warrants, which the plaintifff in the second
warrant has, as against the plaintifff in the first, and are subject to the same
duties and liabilities ; except that a second extension of the time, within
which to furnish an undertaking to prevent the release of a foreign vessel,
or a share or interest therein, shall not be granted. And the plaintifffs in two
or more junior warrants of attachment, may, by agreement among themselves,
take jointly, and for their common benefit, any proceeding, permitted by
this title to be taken, by the plaintifff in a second or subsequent warrant of
attachment ; provided that it does not interfere with the preferential or other
right of an intermediate plaintifff.
Execution to issue to sheriff who has levied.
Only attached property bound when summons not personally served.
Judgment in the principal action ; how satisfied.
When attachment discharged, etc., property to be restored to defendant.
Additional provision for his relief.
Cancelling notice attaching real property.
When sheriff to return wan-ant and his proceedings.

8 706. Execution to issue to sheriff who has levied. Where a levy,
under a warrant of attachment in an action, has been made, an execution
against property, upon a final judgment in favor of the plaintifff therein,
recovered after the expiration of the term of office of the sheriff, who made
the levy, must nevertheless be directed to an* executed by that sheriff,
unless another person is designated by law to complete the unfinished busi
ness pertaining to his office ; or, in that case, to the person so designated.
707. Only attached property bound, when summons not personly served. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where a defendant who has
not appeared is a non-resident of the State, or a foreign corporation, and the
summons was served without the State, or by publication, pursuant to an
order obtained for that purpose, as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act, the
judgment can be enforced only against the property which has been levied
upon, by virtue of the warrant of attachment, at the time when the judg
ment is entered. But this section does not declare the effect of such a judg
ment, with respect to the application of any statute of limitation.
§ 708. Judgment in the principal action ; how satisfied. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where an execution against property is issued upon
a judgment for the plaintifff, in an action in which a warrant of attachment
has been levied, the sheriff must satisfy it, as follows :
1. He must pay over to the plaintifff all money attached by him, and all
proceeds of all sales of perishable property, or of any vessel, or share or
interest therein, or animals, sold by him, or of any debts or other things in
action collected or sold by him ; or so much thereof as is necessary to satisfy
the judgment.
2. If any balance remains due, he must sell, under the execution, the
other personal property attached or so much thereof as is necessary; includ* So in the original
ing rights or shares in the stock of an association or corporation, or a bond or
other instrument for the payment of money, executed and issued with the
interest coupons annexed, if any, by a government, State, county, public
officer, or municipal or other corporation, which is in terms negotiable, or
payable to the bearer or holder, the principal whereof is not then payable ;
but not including any other debt or thing in action. If the proceeds of that
property are insufficient to satisfy the judgment, and the execution requires
him to satisfy it out of any other personal property of the defendant, he" must
sell the personal property, upon which he has levied by virtue of the execution.
If the proceeds of the personal property, applicable to the execution, are
insufficient to satisfy the judgment, the sheriff must sell, under the execu
tion, all the right, title, and interest, which the defendant had in the real
property attached, at the time when the notice was filed, or at any time
afterwards, before resorting to any other real property.
3. If personal property attached, belonging to the defendant, has passed
out of the hands of the sheriff without having been sold or converted into
money, and the attachment has not been discharged, as to that property, he
must, if practicable, regain possession thereof; and, for that purpose, he has
all the authority which he had, to seize the same under the warrant. A
person who willfully conceals or withholds such property from him, is liable to
double damages, at the suit of the party aggrieved.
4. Until the judgment is paid, he may collect the debts and other things
in action attached, and prosecute any undertaking, which he has taken in
the course of the proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the payment
of the judgment.
5. At any time after levying the attachment, the court, upon the petition
of the plaintifff, accompanied with an affidavit specifying fully all the pro
ceedings of the sheriff, since the levy under the warrant, the property
attached, and the disposition thereof ; and the affidavit of the sheriff, show
ing that he has used diligence, in endeavoring to collect the debts and other
things in action attached, and that a portion thereof remains uncollected ;
may direct the sheriff to sell the remaining portion, upon such terms, and in
such manner, as it thinks proper. Notice of the application must be given
to the defendant's attorney, if the defendant appeared in the action. If the
summons was not personally served on the defendant, and he did not appear,
the court may make such order as to the service of notice, as it thinks proper ;
or may grant the application without notice.
§ 709. When attachment discharged, etc., property to be restored
to defendant. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where a warrant of
attachment is vacated, or annulled, or an attachment is discharged, upon the
application of the defendant, the sheriff must, except in a case where it is
otherwise specially prescribed by law, deliver over to the defendant, or to
the person entitled thereto, upon reasonable demand, and npon payment of
all costs, charges, and expenses, legally chargeable by the sheriff, all the
attached personal property remaining in his hands, or that portion thereof,
as to which the attachment is discharged or the proceedings thereof, if it
has been sold by him.
§ 710. Additional provision for his relief "Where the sheriff is required,
by this title, to deliver attached property, or the proceeds thereof, to the
defendant, he must also deliver to him, unless otherwise specially directed
by the court or judge, all books of account, vouchers, evidences of debt,
muniments of title or other papers, relating to the property, either real or
personal, or to its proceeds ; together with all undertakings, relating thereto,
which he has taken in the course of the proceedings, and which have not been fully satisfied ; except an undertaking, given by the defendant, upon
the discharge of property. He must also deliver a written assignment, duly
acknowledged, of each undertaking, so delivered, and of each other instru
ment, to which the . defendant is thus entitled, an assignment of which is
necessary to perfect or protect the defendant's title thereto. The defendant
must also, but upon his own application only, be substituted in place of
the sheriff, or the sheriff and the plaintifff jointly, in an action brought as
prescribed in this title ; but the court or judge may impose, as a condition
of granting the order of substitution, such terms as justice requires, with
respect to indemnity and payment of expenses. The defendant's rights,
with respect to property attached and not disposed of, and an undertaking,
or other instrument, to which he is thus entitled, are the same as those of
the sheriff while the warrant was still in force, except where his rights are
specially defined or regulated by law.
§ 711. Cancelling notice attaching real property. [Amended by Ch.
416 op 1877.] At any time after the warrant of attachment has been vacated
or annulled, or the attachment has been discharged as to real property
attached, the court may, in its discretion, upon the application of any person
aggrieved, and upon such notice as it deems just, direct that any notice,
filed for the purpose of attaching the property, be cancelled of record, by
the clerk of the county where it is filed and recorded. The cancellation
must be made by a note, to that effect, on the margin of the record ; refer
ring to the order ; and, unless the order is entered in the same clerk's office,
a certified copy thereof must, at the same time, be filed therein.
§ 712. When sheriff to return warrant and his proceedings. Where
a warrant of attachment has been vacated or annulled, the sheriff must
forthwith file, in the clerk's office, the warrant, with a return of his proceed
ings thereon; Upon the application of either party, and proof of the
sheriff's neglect, the court may direct him so to do, forthwith, or within a
specified time.

Receiver ; when appointed.
Notice of application.
Security.
Certain receivers may hold real property.

§ 713. Receiver ; when appointed In addition to the cases, where
the appointment of a receiver is specially provided for by law, a receiver of
property, which is the subject of an action, in the supreme court, a superior city court, or a county court, may be appointed by the court, in either of the
following cases :
1. Before final judgment, on the application of a party who establishes
an apparent right to, or interest in, the property, where it is in the posses
sion of an adverse party, and there is danger that it will be removed
beyond the jurisdiction of the court, or lost, materially injured, or de
stroyed.
2. By or after the final judgment, to carry the judgment into effect,* or to
dispose of the property, according to its directions.
3. After final judgment, to preserve the property, during the pendency of
an appeal.
The word " property," as used in this section, includes the rents, profits,
or other income, and the increase, of real or personal property.
§ 714. Notice of application. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877 and
by Ch. 542 op 1879.] Notice of an application, for the appointment of
a receiver, in an action, before judgment therein, must be given to the
adverse party, unless he has failed to appear in the action, and the time
limited for his appearance has expired. But where an order has been
made, as prescribed in section four hundred and thirty -eight of this act, the
court may, in its discretion, appoint a temporary receiver, to receive and
preserve the property, without notice, or upon a notice given by publication
or otherwise, as it thinks proper.
§ 715. Security. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] A receiver, appointed
in an action or special proceeding, must, before entering upon his duties,
execute and file with the proper clerk, a bond, to the people, with at least
two sufficient sureties, in a penalty fixed by the court, judge, or referee,
making the appointment, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties
as receiver. And the court ; or, where the order was made out of court, the
judge making the order, by or pursuant to which the receiver was ap
pointed ; or his successor in oftice ; may, at any time remove the receiver, or
direct him to give a new bond, with new sureties, with the like condition.
But this section does not apply to a case, where special provision is made
by law, for the security to be given by a receiver, or for increasing the same,
or for removing a receiver.
§ 716. Certain receivers may hold real property. A receiver, ap
pointed by or pursuant to an order or a judgment, in an action in the supreme
court, a superior city court, or a county court, or in a special proceeding for
the voluntary dissolution of a corporation, may take and hold real property,
upon such trusts and for such purposes as the court directs, subject to the
direction of the court, from time to time, respecting the disposition thereof.
ARTICLE SECOND.
Deposit, Dblivkry, or Conveyance of Property.
Section 717. Court may order a deposit or delivery of property in certain cases.
718. When sheriff may take and convey, etc., property.
§ 717. Court may order a deposit or delivery of property in certain
cases. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Where it is admitted, by the pleading
or examination of a party, that he has, in his possession or under his control,
money, or other personal property capable of delivery, which, being the
subject of the action or special proceeding, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the court may, in
its discretion, grant an order upon notice, that it be paid into, or deposited
in court, or delivered to that party, with or without security, subject to the
further direction of the court
§ 718. When sheriff may take and convey, etc., property. Where
the court has directed a deposit or delivery, as prescribed in the last section ;
or where a judgment directs a party to make a deposit or delivery, or to con
vey real property ; if the direction is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing
the disobedience as a contempt, may, by order, require the sheriff to take,
and deposit or deliver the money or other personal property, or to convey the
real property, in conformity with the direction of the court.
§ 719. Arrest, injunction, and attachment ; when not to be granted
together. Motions relating to provisional remedied to be decided in
twenty days. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.J Where application for an
order of arrest, an injunction, and a warrant of attachment, or two of them,
is made, in the same action, against the same defendant ; and it satisfac
torily appears that, under the particular circumstances of the case, two or all
of them are not necessary for the plaintifffs security, the court or judge may,
in its or his discretion, require the plaintifff to elect between them. Where an
application is made to obtain, vacate, modify, or set aside an order of arrest,
injunction order, or warrant of attachment, the court or judge must finally
decide the same, within twenty days after it is submitted for decision.
§ 720. Right of a defendant interposing a counterclaim. [Amended
by Ch. 542 op 1879.] Where the defendant interposes a counterclaim and
thereupon demands an affirmative judgment against the plaintifff, his right
to a provisional remedy is the same as in an action brought by him against
the plaintifff, for the cause of action stated in the counterclaim, and demand
ing the same judgment. And for the purpose of applying to such a case the
provisions of this act, the defendant is deemed the plaintifff, the plaintifff is
deemed the defendant, and the counterclaim so set forth in the answer is
deemed the complaint.
§ 721. Defects cured by verdict, etc., and by judgment. [Amended
by Ch. 542 of 1879.] In a court of record, where a verdict, report, or de
cision has been rendered, the judgment shall not be stayed, nor shall any
judgment of a court of record be impaired or affected, by reason of either of
the following imperfections, omissions, defects, matters, or things, in the
process, pleadings, or other proceedings :
1. For want of a summons, or other writ.
2. For any fault or defect in process : or for misconceiving a process, or
awarding it to a wrong officer.
3. For an imperfect or insufficient return of a sheriff or other officer ; or
because an officer has not subscribed a return, actually made by him.
4. For a variance between the summons and complaint.
5. For a mispleading, insufficient peading,* or jeofail.
6. For want of a warrant of attorney by either party.
7. For the appearance, by attorney, of an infant party, if the verdict,
report, or decision, or the judgment, is in his favor.
• So in the original.
8. For omitting to allege any matter, without proof of which the verdict,
report, or decision ought not to have been rendered.
9. For a mistake in the name of a party or other person ; or in a sum of
money ; or in the description of property ; or in reciting or stating a day,
month, or year ; where the correct name, sum, description, or date has been
once rightly stated, in any of the pleadings or other proceedings.
10. For a mistake in the name of a juror or officer.
11. For an informality in entering judgment, or making up the judgmentroll.
12. For an omission on the part of a referee to be sworn ; or for any other
default or negligence of the clerk, or any other officer of the court, or of a
party, his attorney or counsel, by which the adverse party has not been pre
judiced.
§ 722. Such defects to be supplied. Each of the omissions, imperfec
tions, defects and variances, specified in the last section, and any other of
like nature, not being against the right and justice of the matter, and not
altering the issue between the parties, or trial, must, when necessary, be
supplied, and the proceeding mended, by the court wherein the judgment
is rendered, or by an appellate court.
§ 723. Amendments by tha court ; disregarding immaterial errors,
etc. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The court may, upon the trial, or
at any other stage of the action, before or after judgment, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms a.s it deems just, amend any process, pleading or
other proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of a person as a party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect, or by inserting an allegation material to the case ; or, where the
amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conform
ing the pleading or other proceeding to the facts proved. And, in every
stage of the action, the court must disregard an error or defect in the plead
ings or other proceedings, which does not affect the substantial rights of the
adverse party.
§ 724. Relief against omissions, etc., amendments to conform pro
ceedings. The court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon such terms
as justice requires, at any time within one year after notice thereof, relieve
a party from a judgment, order, or other proceeding, taken against him
through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect ; and may
supply an omission in any proceeding. Where a proceeding, taken by a
party, fails to conform to a provision of this act, the court may, in like man
ner, and upon like terms, permit an amendment thereof; to conform it to the
provision.
8 725. Returns by officers, etc. A court, to which a return is made by
a sheriff or other officer, or by a subordinate court or other tribunal, may, in
its discretion, direct the return to be amended, in matter of form, either
before or after judgment.
§ 726. Papers lost or withheld ; how supplied. Where an original
pleading or paper is lost, or withheld by any person, the court may authorize
a copy to be filed and used, instead of the original.
§ 727. Order of court ; when necessary to amend. A process, plead
ing, or record, shall not be altered, by the clerk or any other officer of the
court, or by any other person, without the direction of the court, or of
another court of competent authority ; except in a case where a party, or his
attorney, is specially authorized by law to amend a pleading.
i 728. Disregarding defects in affidavits. The want of a title, or a
defect in the title, of an affidavit, does not impair it, if it intelligibly refers
to the action or special proceeding, in which it is made.
§ 729. Certain bonds, etc., when sufficient. A bond or undertaking,
required by statute to be given by a person, to entitle him to a right or priv
ilege, or to take a proceeding, is sufficient, if it conforms substantially to the
form therefore, prescribed by the statute, and does not vary therefrom, to the
prejudice of the rights of the party, to whom, or for whose benefit it is
given.
§ 730. Amending defects in bonds, etc. "Where such a bond or
undertaking is defective, the court, officer, or body, that would be author
ized to receive it, or to entertain a proceeding in consequence thereof, if it
was perfect, may, on the application of the persons who executed it, amend
it accordingly ; and it shall thereupon be valid, from the time of its execu
tion.
Tender after suit.
Amount to be paid into court.
Effect of sufficient tender.
When to be deducted from recovery, etc.
Requiring- admission of genuineness of paper.
Offer to liquidate damages conditionally.
Effect of refusal of offer.
Defendant's offer to compromise ; proceedings thereon.
Plaintiff's offer to compromise counterclaim; proceedings thereon.
Offer and acceptance, by whom subscribed.
Rule if offer made within ten days before trial.
In certain cases, judgment to be set aside.

§ 731. Tender after suit Where the complaint demands judgment for
a sum of money only ; and the action is brought to recover a sum certain,
or which may be reduced to certainty by calculation; or to recover damages
for a casual or involuntary personal injury, or a like injury to property; the
defendant, or his attorney, may, at any time before the trial, tender to the
plaintifff, or his attorney, such a sum of money, as he conceives to be suf
ficient to make amends for the injury, or to pay the plaintifff's demand;
together with the costs o"f the action, to that time.
§ 732. Amount to be paid into court. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
A tender, made as prescribed in the last section, does not avail the defend
ant, unless the money is accepted, or is paid into eourt, and notice thereof
in writing served upon the plaintifff's attorney before the trial, and within
ten days after the tender. If the plaintifff takes out the amount paid in he
accepts the tender.
§ 733. Effect of sufficient tender. If it appears, upon the trial, that
the sum so tendered was sufficient to pay the plaintifff's demand, or to make
amends for the injury, and also to pay the costs of the action, to the time of
the tender, the plaintifff cannot recover costs or interest, from the time of
the tender, but must pay the defendant's costs from that time.
• Stricken oat by Ch. 416 of 1877.
§ 734. When to be deducted from recovery, etc. If the plaintifff
proceeds in the action after accepting the tender, the sum accepted must
be deducted from the recovery, and judgment rendered for the residue, if
any ; and if the tender and acceptance do not appear in the pleadings, a
memorandum thereof must be annexed to the judgment-roll. The plain
tiff'a right to recover costs, and his liability to pay cost to the defendant, are
determined by the amount of the residue.
§ 735. Requiring admission of genuineness of paper. The attorney
for a party may, at any time before the trial, exhibit to the attorney for the
adverse party, a paper material to the action, and request a written admis
sion of its genuineness. If the admission is not given, within four days after
the request, and the paper is proved or admitted on the trial, the expenses,
incurred by the party exhibiting it, in order to prove its genuineness, must
be ascertained at the trial, and paid by the party refusing the admission ;
unless it appears to the satisfaction of the court, that there was good reason
for the refusal.
§ 736. Offer to liquidate damages conditionally In an action to
recover damages for breach of a contract, the defendant's attorney may, with
the answer, serve upon the plaintifff's attorney, a written offer, that, if the
defendant fails in his defense, the damages may be assessed at a specified
sum. If the plaintifff serves notice, that he accepts the offer, with or before
the notice of trial, and damages are awarded to him on the trial they must
be assessed accordingly.
§ 737. Effect of refusal of order. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] If
the plaintifff does not accept the offer, he cannot prove it upon the trial. But
if the damages awarded to him, do not exceed the sum offered, the defend
ant is entitled to recover the expenses, necessarily incurred by him in pre
paring for the trial of the question of damages. The expenses must be
ascertained, and the amount thereof determined, by the judge, or the referee,
by or before whom the cause is tried.
§ 738. Defendant's offer to compromise ; proceedings thereon
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The defendant may, before the trial, serve
upon the plaintifff's attorney, a written offer, to allow judgment to be taken
against him for a sum, or property, or to the effect, therein specified, with
costs. If there are two or more defendants, and the action can be severed,
a like offer may be made by one or more defendants, against whom a sepa
rate judgment may be taken. If the plaintifff, within ten days thereafter,
serves upon the defendant's attorney, a written notice that he accepts the
offer, he may file the summons, complaint and offer, with proof of accept
ance, and thereupon the clerk must enter judgment accordingly. If notice
of acceptance is not thus given, the offer cannot be given in evidence upon
the trial ; but, if the plaintifff fails to obtain a more favorable judgment, he
cannot recover costs from the time of the offer, but must pay costs from that
time.
§ 739. Plaintiff's offer to compromise counterclaim ; proceedings
thereon [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where the defendant sets up a
counterclaim, to an amount greater than the plaintifff's claim, or sufficient to
reduce the plaintifff's recovery below fifty dollars, the plaintifff may serve,
upon the defendant's attorney, a written offer, to allow judgment to be taken
against him, for a specified sum, with costs, or against the defendant for a
specified sum, and against the plaintifff for costs. If the defendant, within
ten days thereafter, serves upon the plaintifff's attorney, notice that he
accepts the offer, either party may file the summons, complaint, answer, and offer, or copies thereof and proof of acceptance ; and thereupon the clerk
must enter judgment accordingly. If notice of acceptance is not thus given,
the offer cannot be given in evidence upon the trial, but, if the recovery is
not more favorable to the defendant than that so offered, he will not be enti
tled to recover costs from the time of the offer, but must pay costs from
that time.
§ 740. Offer and acceptance, by whom subscribed. Unless an offer
or an acceptance, made as prescribed in either of the last four sections, is sub
scribed by the party making it, his attorney must subscribe it, and annex
thereto his affidavit, to the effect that he is duly authorized to make it, in
behalf of the party.
Party bringing money into court is discharged.
General rules may regulate concerning payment into court.
Money to be paid to county treasurer, and securities taken in hia name.
Funds ; where and how deposited or invested.
Powers of supreme court as to transfer, etc., to and investment by guard
ian, etc.
When other courts have like power.
Powers of certain officers, touching securities, etc.
Provisions relating to death, removal, etc., of officer.
Authority for payment of money, by bank or trust company.
How county treasurer to keep his accounts.
County treasurer to report annually to the court.
These provisions applicable in New York to the chamberlain.

§ 743. Party bringing money into court is discharged. A party bring
ing money into court, pursuaut to the direction of the court, is discharged
thereby from all further liability, to the extent of the money so paid in.
§ 744. General rules may regulate concerning payment into court.
The general rules of practice may contain regulations, concerning the pay
ment of money into court, in an action, and the care and disposition thereof,
which shall govern, where provision is not otherwise made by law.
8 745. Money to be paid to county treasurer, and securities, taken
in his name. Unless the court otherwise specially directs, money, paid into
court, must be paid, either directly, or by the officer who is required by law
first to receive it, to the county treasurer of the county, where the action is
triable. Where it is paid to an officer, other than the county treasurer, he
must pay it to the county treasurer, within four days after he receives it.
In the city of New York, he must pay it to the chamberlain, within two days
after he receives it. A bond, mortjrafire, or other security, or a certificate or
transfer of stock, taken upon the investment of money paid into court, must
be taken to the county treasurer of the county where the fund belongs, in
his name of office ; or to such other county treasurer, as the court specially
directs. But this and the next section do not prevent the court, upon the
application of a party to an action, from directing in what manner or place,
money, paid into court in the action, shall be deposited or invested.
§ 746. Funds ; where and how deposited or invested. Provision
may be made, in the general rules of practice, for the deposit, in a bank or
trust company, of money paid into court ; for the investments thereof in
the public debt of the United States, or of a State, or for loaning it upon
■approved interest-bearing mortgages upon real property ; and for the trans
ferring or disposing, from time to time, of the money, or any investment, or
security. But the money must be deposited or loaned in the county where
the fund belongs, where that can be done conveniently and safely, and with
advantage to the parties interested.
§ 747. Powers of supreme court as to transfer, etc., to and invest
ment by guardian, etc. The supreme court may direct that money, paid
into that court, in an action brought therein, or a bond, mortgage, or other
security, or public stock, in the possession or under the control of a county
treasurer, which represents money so paid in, be transferred and delivered
to a general or special guardian, committee, or other trustee, upon his giving,
or if he has given, security, satisfactory to the court, for the faithful execu
tion of his trust ; or that a bond, mortgage, or other security, or public stock,
be taken by and in the name of the guardian, committee, or other trustee ;
and be collected, invested or loaned, as the court directs, or as prescribed in
the general rules of practice.
§ 748. When other courts have like power. Each superior city court,
each county court, and the marine court of the city of New York, possesses,
with respect to money, paid into that court, in an action brought therein, or
a bond, mortgage, or other security, or public stock, in or upon which it has
been invested or loaned, the power and authority conferred upon the supreme
court, by the last section.
§ 749. Powers of certain officers, touching securities, etc. [Amended
by Ch. 416 of 1877.] A county treasurer, or other officer, or a guardian, com
mittee, or other trustee, in whose name is taken a bond, mortgage, or other
security, or public stock, representing money, paid into court, in an action ;
or to whom stock or a security, or an account, deed, voucher, receipt, or
other paper, representing or relating to such money, is transferred, delivered,
made, or given, pursuant to law, is vested with title for the purposes of the
trust ; and may bring an action upon or in relation to the same, in his official
or representative character.
§ 750. Provision relating to death, removal, etc., of officer. On the
expiration of the official term of a county treasurer, or where a vacancy
occurs in his office, by death or otherwise, all public stock, bonds, mortgages,
and other securities held by him, as prescribed in this title, vest in his
successor in office ; and all money deposited, as prescribed in this title, in a
bank, trust company or other depository, to his credit, vests in, and must be
carried to, the account of his successor in office.
§ 751. Authority for payment of money by bank or trust company.
Money paid into court, in an action, and deposited in a bank or trust com
pany, to the credit of a county treasurer, shall not be paid out, without the
production of a certified copy of an order of the court, for that purpose, coun
tersigned by the judge, by whcse direction it is made.
§ 752. How county treasurer to keep his accounts. The accounts
of a county treasurer, with respect to money received by him as prescribed
in this title, with each bank or trust company, in which it is deposited, must be kept, so as to show, in the cash-books of the bank or company,
and in the books of the county treasurer, in what particular action, or on
what account, each item of money credited or charged, was deposited or
paid out.
§ 753. County treasurer to report annually to the court. [Amended
by Ch. 416 of 1877.] A county treasurer, who has, in his possession or
under his control, money, bonds, mortgages, or other securities, or public
stock, as prescribed in this title, must, once in each year, at the time pre
scribed by special order, or by the general rules of practice, make a report
to the court, into which the money was paid, containing a statement of his
accounts for the preceding year, or since the last account was rendered, and of
the funds and securities under his control, relating to the money paid into that
court. The statement must show, as to each action separately, the amount
on hand uninvested ; the time when each sum of money was received ; the
time, amouut, and other description of each payment, investment, or loan ;
the amount deposited in each bank or trust company ; and the balance on
deposit therein ; and also all public stock, bonds, mortgages and other
securities, representing the remainder of the fund. The statement must
be accompanied with a certificate of the proper officer of each bank or trust
company, in which a deposit is made, to the effect that the total amount,
stated to be remaining on deposit, is actually in that bank or company,
placed to the credit of the county treasurer, in the action, and not mingled
with any other account. If the court, at any time, deems the security given
by the county treasurer insufficient to protect the funds and securities in his
hands and under his control, it must make an order directing him to make
the security satisfactory to the court.
§ 754. These provisions applicable in New York to the chamberlain.
Each provision of this title, relating to a county treasurer, applies to the
ehamberlain of the city of New York, with respect to money paid into court,
in an action triable in the city ai,d county of New York, or with respect to
money, or a bond, mortgage, or other security, or public stock, representing
money paid into court ; except where special provision, with respect to the
same, is otherwise made by law.
Action ; when not to abate.
Proceedings upon transfer of interest, or devolution of liability
Id. j when sole party dies and action survives.
Id. ; when one of several parties dies.
760. Id. j when part of cause of action survives.
When court may order action abated.
Special cases excepted.
Death of party after verdict, etc.
Action for a wrong not to abate after verdict, etc.
No verdict, etc., can be taken after a party's death.
Death, etc., of public officer or trustee.

§ 755. Action when not to abate. An action does not abate by any
event, if the cause of action survives or continues.
148

Ch. 8, Tit. 4. DEATH, ETC., OR TRANSFER OF INTEREST. § 756-761.
§ 756. Proceedings upon transfer of interest, or devolution of lia
bility. In case of a transfer of interest, or devolution of liability, the action
may be continued by or against the original party ; unless the court directs
the person, to whom the interest is transferred, or upon whom the liability is
devolved, to be substituted in the action, or joined with the original party,
as the case requires.
§ 757. Id. ; when sole party dies and action survives. [Amended by
Ch. 416 op 1877, and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] In case of the death of a sole
plaintifff, or a sole defendant, if the cause of action survives or continues,
the court must, upon a motion, allow or compel the action to be continued,
by or against his representative, or successor in interest.
§ 758. Id. ; when one of several parties dies. [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877.1 In case of the death of one of two or more plaintifffs, or one of two
or more defendants, if the entire cause of action survives to or against the
others, the action may proceed in favor of, or against the survivors. But the
estate of a person or party jointly liable upon contract with others shall not
be discharged by his death, and the court may make an order to bring in
the proper representative of the decedent, when it is necessary so to do for
the proper disposition of the matter, and, where the liability is several as
well as joint, may order a severance of the action so that it may proceed
separately against the representative of the decedent, and against the sur
viving defendant or defendants.
§ 759. Id. ; when part of cause of action survives. In case of the
death of one of two or more plaintifffs, or one of two or more defendants, if
part only of the cause of action, or part of some of two or more distinct
causes of action, survives to or against the others, the action may proceed,
without bringing in the successor to the rights or liabilities of the deceased
party; and the judgment shall not affect him, or his interest in the subject
of the action. But where it appears proper so to do, the court may require
or to* compel the successor, or a person who claims to be the successor, to
be brought in as a party, upon his own application or upon the application
of a party to the action.
§ 760. The same. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] In a case specified
in the foregoing sections of this title, where such a person applies in his own
behalf, the cdurt may direct that he be made a party, by amendment of the
pleadings, or otherwise, as the case requires. Where an application is made
by the plaintifff, to bring in such a person as defendant, the court may direct
that a supplemental summons issue, and that supplemental pleadings be
made. "Where an application is made by a defendant, to bring in such a
person, the court may, and where the protection of the applicant's rights
requires it, must, permit the defendant to commence a cross action for that
purpose. The cross action must be brought in the same court, unless the
order otherwise specially directs. If it directs that the action be commenced
in another court, the latter court may, by order, at any time after the cross
action is commenced, remove to itself the original action, with like effect as
if it had been brought therein. Unless the court otherwise directs, the
original action and the cross action must be tried, and judgment rendered
therein, as if they were one action.
§ 761. When court may order action abated. [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877.] At any time after the death of the plaintifff, or after the marriage
of the plaintifff, where it affects the rights of either party, the court may, in
• So In the original.
its discretion, upon notice to such persons as it directs, and upon the appli
cation of the adverse party, or of a person whose interest is affected, direct
that the action abate, unless it is continued by the proper parties, within a
time specified in the order, not less than six months, nor more than one
year, after the granting thereof.
§ 762. Special cases excepted. The foregoing provisions of this title
do not apply to a case, where special provision is otherwise made by law.
§ 763. Death of party after verdict, etc. If either party to an action
flies, after an accepted offer to allow judgment to be taken, or after a ver
dict, report, or decision or an interlocutory judgment, but before final judg
ment is entered, the court must enter final judgment, in the names of the
original parties ; unless the offer, verdict, report, or decision, or the inter
locutory judgment, is set aside.
§ 764. Action for a wrong not to abate after verdict, etc. After ver
dict, report or decision in an action to recover damages for a personal injury,
the action does not abate by the death of a party, but the subsequent pro
ceedings are the same as in a case where the cause of action survives. [Am'd
Ch. 277 op 1881.]
§ 705. No verdict, etc., can be taken after a party's death. This
title does not authorize the entry of a judgment against a party, who dies
before a verdict, report or decision is actually rendered against him. In
that case the verdict, report or decision is absolutely void.
§ 766. Death, etc., of public officer or trustee. Where an action or
special proceeding is authorized or directed by law, to be brought by or in
the name of a public officer, or by a receiver, or other trustee, appointed by
virtue of a statute, his death or removal does not abate the action or special
proceeding ; but the same may be continued by his successor, who must,
upon his application, or that of a party interested, be substituted for that
purpose, by the order of the court, a copy of which must be annexed to the
judgment-roll.
Definition of an order.
Id. j of a motion.
Motions in supreme court j where to be heard.
Motions in New York city.
In absence of judge, motion may be transferred to another judge.
771!. What judges may make orders out of court, without notice.
Review of order made by judge of another court.
When stay of proceedings not to exceed twenty days.
Subsequent application for order, after denial, etc., of prior application.
Id. ; as to application for judgment.
Penalty for violating last two sections.
Costs of a motion j now collected.

§ 767. Definition of an order. A direction of a court or judge, made, as
prescribed in this act, in an action or special proceeding, must be in writing,
unless otherwise specified in the particular case. Such a direction, unless it
is contained in a judgment, is an order.
§ 768. Id. ; of a motion. An application for an order is a motion.
§ 769. Motions in supreme court ; where to be heard. [Amended
by Ch. 542 op 1879.] A motion, upon notice, in an action in the supreme
court, must be made within the judicial district, in which the action is triable,
or in a county adjoining that in which it is triable ; except that where it is
triable in the first judicial district, the motion must be made in that district ;
and a motion, upon notice, cannot be made in that district in an action
triable elsewhere. But this section does not apply to a case, where it is
specially prescribed by law that a motion may be made in the county, where
the applicant, or other person to be affected thereby, or the attorney, resides.
§ 770. Motions in New York city. In the first judicial district, a
motion which elsewhere must be made in court, may be made to a judge out
of court, except for a new trial on the merits.
8 771. In absence of judge, motion may be transferred to another
judge. "Where notice of a motion is given, or an order to show cause is
returnable, before a judge, out of court, who, at the time fixed for the motion,
is or will be absent, or unable, for any other cause, to hear it, the motion
may be transferred, by his order, made before or at that time, or by the
written stipulation of the attorneys for the parties, to another judge, before
whom it might have been originally made.
§ 772. What judges may make orders out of court without notice.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where an order, in an action, may be made
by a judge of the court, out of court, and without notice, and the particular
judge is not specially designated by law, it may be made by any judge of
the court, in any part of the State ; or, except to stay proceedings after
verdict, report, or decision,by a justice of the Supreme Court, or by a judge
of a superior city court within the city wherein his court is located, or by
the county judge of the county where the action is triable, or in which the
attorney for the applicant resides. Where such an order grants a provisional
remedy, it can be vacated only in the mode specially prescribed by law ; in
any other case, it may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the judge
who made it, or, upon notice, by him, or by the court.
§ 773. The same. The limitation, contained in the last section, of the
county judges who may make an order, does not apply to a case where it is
rescribed in this act, in general words, that a particular order may be made
y a county judge or by any county judge.
§ 774. Review of order made by judge of another court. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] An order, made by a judge of a court, other than the
court in which the action is pending, may be reviewed in the same manner,
as if it was made by a judge of the court in which the action is pending.
§ 775. When stay of proceedings not to exceed twenty days.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] An order to stay proceedings in an action,
for a longer time than twenty days, shall not be made by a judge, out of court,
except to stay proceedings under an order or judgment appealed from, or
where it is made upon notice of the application, to the adverse party, or in
cases where special provision is otherwise made by law.
§ 776. Subsequent application for order after denial, etc., of prior
application. If an application for an order, made to a judge of the court,
or to a county judge is wholly or partly refused, or granted conditionally, or
on terms ; a subsequent application, in reference to the same matter, and
in the same stage of the proceedings, shall be made only to the same judge,
or to the court. If it is made to another judge, out of court, an order granted
thereupon must be vacated by the judge who made it; or, if he is absent,
or otherwise unable to hear the application, by any judge of the court, upon
proof, by affidavit, of the facts.
§ 777. Id. ; as to application for judgment. Where an application is
made to the court for judgment, it cannot be withdrawn, without the express
permission of the court; and a subsequent application for judgment shall not
be made, at a term held by another judge, except where the first application
is so •withdrawn ; or where the directions given thereupon, require an act to
be done, before judgment can be rendered ; or where the fact of the former
application is stated, and the proceedings thereupon, and subsequent thereto,
are fully set forth, in the papers upon which the application is made.
§ 778. Penalty for violating last two sections. A person making an
application, forbidden by the last two sections with knowledge of the pre
vious applications, shall be punished by the court for a contempt.
8 779. Proceedings stayed by failure to pay costs ; how costs to be
collected. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.]
Where costs of a motion, directed by an order to be paid, are not paid
within the time fixed for that purpose by the order, or if no time is so fixed
within ten days after service of a copy of the order, an execution against the
personal property only of the parly required to pay them, may be issued in the
same form, as nearly as may be, as an execution upon a judgment, omitting the
recitals and directions relating to real property, and all proceedings on the part
of the party required to pay them, except to review or vacate the order, are
stayed, without further direction of the court until the payment thereof.
But the adverse party may, at his election, waive the stay of proceedings.
Where the order directs that the costs of the motion abide the event of the
action, or where costs of a motion, awarded by an order, have not been col
lected, when final judgment is entered, they may be taxed, as part of the
costs of the action, or set off against costs awarded to the adverse party, as the case requires. [Am'd Ch. 397 op 1882. See § 2.]
General regulations resecting' time.
Preferred and deferred causes.
Service of papers.
Discovery of books and papers.
General regulations respecting bonds and undertakings.
Other matters.
Qualification of last section.
Orders in certain actions ; how published.
Time for publication of notice ; how computed.
Time for doing any act ; how computed.
§ 780. Notice of motion, to be eight days. Where special provision is
not otherwise made by law, or by the general rules of practice, if notice of
a motion, or of any other proceeding in an action, before a court or a judge,
is necessary, it must, if personally served, be served at least eight days
before the time appointed for the hearing; unless the court, or a judge there
of, upon an affidavit showing grounds therefore, makes an order to show cause
why the application should not be granted ; and, in the order, directs that
service thereof, less than eight days before it is returnable, be sufficient.
§ 781. How time enlarged, before its expiration. Where the time,
within which a proceeding in an action after its commencement, must be
taken, has begun to run, and has not expired, it may be enlarged, upon an
affidavit showing grounds therefore, by the court, or by a judge authorized
to make an order in the action.
§ 782. Copy of affidavit must be served In a case specified in the
last two sections, the affidavit, upon which the order was granted, or a copy
thereof, must be served with a copy of the order ; otherwise, the order may
be disregarded.
§ 783. Relief after time has expired After the expiration of the time
within which a pleading must be made, or any other proceeding in an action,
after its commencement, must be taken, the court, upon good cause shown,
may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as justice requires, relieve the
party from the consequences of an omission to do the act, and allow it to be
done ; except as otherwise specially prescribed by law.
§ 784. When time cannot be extended A court, or a judge, is not
authorized to extend the time, fixed by law, within which to commence an
action ; or to take an appeal ; or to apply to continue an action, where a
party thereto has died, or has incurred a disability; or the time fixed by the
court, within which a supplemental complaint must be made, in order to con
tinue an action ; or an action is to abate, unless it is continued by the proper
parties. A court, or a judge, cannot allow either of those acts to be done,
after the expiration of the time fixed by law, or by the order, as the case
may be, for doing it ; except in a case specified in the next section.
785. Qualification of last section. [Amended by Ch. 416 or 1877.]
ere a party, entitled to appeal from a judgment or order, or to move to
set aside a final judgment for error in fact, dies, either before or after this
chapter takes effect, and before the expiration of the time within which the
appeal may be taken, or the motion made, the court may allow the appeal
to be taken, or the motion to be made, by the heir, devisee, or personal rep
resentative of the decedent, at any time within four months after his death.
§ 786. Orders in certain actions ; how published Where an action
is Drought for the collective benefit of the creditors of a person, or of an estate,
or for the benefit of a person or persons, other than the plaintifff, who will
come in and contribute to the expense of the action, notice of a direction of
the court, contained in a judgment or order, requiring the creditors, or other
person or persons to exhibit their demands, or otherwise to come in, must be
published, once in each week, for at least three successive weeks, and as
much longer as the court directs, in the newspaper, published at Albany, in
which legal notices are required to be published, and in a newspaper, pub
lished in the county where the act is required to be done.
§ 787. Time for publication of notice ; how computed. The period
of publication of a legal notice, in an action or special proceeding, brought
in a court, either of record or not of record, or before a judge of such a court,
must be computed, so as to exclude the first day of publication, and include
the day, on which the act or event, of which notice is given, is to happen,
or which completes the full period of publication.
§ 788. Time for doing any act ; how computed [Amended by Ch.
416 op 1877.] The time within which an act, in an action or special pro
ceeding, brought as specified in the last section, is required by law to be
done, must be computed by excluding the first, and including the last day ;
except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law. If the last day is
Sunday, or a public holiday, it must be excluded. Where the act is required
to be done within two days, and an intervening day is Sunday, or a public
holiday, it must also be excluded.
ARTICLE SECOND.
Preferred and Deferred Causes.

Preference of certain actions by the people.
Id. ; of criminal actions.
Id. ; among1 civil actions.
Id. ; in mandamus or prohibition.
When an order is necessary.
When cause passed, how placed upon the calendar.
Note of issue to state time when passed.

§ 789. Preference of certain actions by the people. A trial, motion,
appeal, or hearing, in an action by the people to recover money, funds, cred
its, or other property held or owned by the State, or held or owned, officially
or otherwise, for, or in behalf of, a public or governmental interest, by a
municipal or other public corporation, or by a board, officer, custodian,
agency or agent of the State, or of a city, county, town, village, or other divi
sion, subdivision, department, or portion of the State, which the defendant
has, without right, obtained, received, converted, or disposed of; or to
recover damages, or other compensation, for so obtaining, receiving, paying,
converting, or disposing of the same ; or the aiding or abetting thereof ; is
entitled, on the application of the Attorney-General, to a preference over any
other business, at a term or sitting of any court of the State, irrespective of
its place upon the calendar.
§ 790. Id. ; of criminal actions. A criminal action, including an appeal
or other proceeding in a criminal cause, is entitled, under the direction of
the court, to preference in the trial or hearing thereof, over all civil actions,
and special proceedings, except as prescribed in the last section.
§ 791. Id ; among civil actions. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877, by
Ch. 163 op 1879 and by Ch. D42 or 1879. J Civil causes are entitled to pref
erence among themselves, in the trial or hearing thereof, in the following
order, next after the causes specified in the last section but one :
1. An action or special proceeding brought by or against the people of the
State, or by or against any State officer or board of State officers as such,
and in which the people, or such officer or board, appear by the AttorneyGeneral ; where the Attorney-General has given notice, at the time of
service of notice of trial or argument, of a particular day in the term on
which he will move it. If the action or special proceeding is not moved by
him for trial or argument on that day, or as soon thereafter in the same
term as the court can hear it, the other party may then move the trial or
argument ; otherwise it shall not be moved out of its order at that term,
except by the special order of the court.
2. An action or special proceeding, in which the mayor, aldermen and com
monalty of the city of New York, or a board of officers, exercising powers con
ferred by a statute for the protection of public health, or public or private
property, or for the prevention or punishment of violations of a statute
relating to either of those subjects, or the commissioners of pilots in the city
of New York, are parties ; where a notice, similar to the notice prescribed
in the last subdivision, has been served by their attorney, at. the time of
service of the notice of trial or argument. The provisions of the last sub
division, relating to moving the trial or argument, apply to a cause within
this subdivision.
3. In the court of appeals or the supreme court, an appeal taken by either par
ty, in an action or special proceeding, other than as specified in subdivision
first of this section, where the people of the State, or a board of State officers,
are sole parties, or a State officer is a sole paTty, plaintifff or defendant.
4. In the court of appeals, an action, a party to which has died, pending
the action, where the pendency of the action prevents a final settlement of
the estate of the deceased party.
5. In any court, an action or special proceeding, in which an executor or ad
ministrator or an infant, or the receiver of a savings bank, or banking association
or general assignee for the benefit of creditors, is the sole plaintifff or sole defend
ant; an action or special proceeding for the construction of, or an adjudication
upon, a will, in which the administrator with the will annexed, or the execu
tor of the will, is joined, as plaintifff or defendant, with one or more other
parties ; and, in the court of appeals or the supreme court, an appeal from
the decree or decision of a surrogate's court, determining a will to be valid,
and admitting it to probate, or determining an instrument offered for probate
as a will to be invalid or not entitled to probate as such, or granting general let
ters of administration, or directing the distribution of a fund, or payment of
money by an executor or an administrator, in pursuance of an order or decree
made on an intermediate, final or judicial accounting, or otherwise, by an admin
istrator or an executor. |Am'd Ch. 391 op 1883.]
6. An action for dower ; where the plaintifff makes proof, by affidavit, to
the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof, that she has no sufficient
means of support, aside from the estate in controversy.
7. An act-ion against a corporation or joint-stock association, issuing bank
notes or any kind of paper credits to circulate as money, or by or against a
receiver of such corporation or association. An action in which a county or
town is sole plaintifff or defendant.
8. An action against a corporation founded upon a note, or anothers*
evidence of debt for the absolute payment of money. An action upon an
undertaking given upon an appeal to the court of appeals, or to stay the
execution on an appeal to the court of appeals.
9. An action against a sheriff in his official capacity.
10. A cause entitled to preference, by the general rules of practice, or by
the special order of the court in the particular case.
"Where an issue of law and an issue of fact, or two or more other questions
of different natures, come before the same term of the court for trial or hear
ing the preference given by this section affects only the order, in which the
issues or questions of the same nature are to be disposed of. [Am'dChs. 397
of 1882 and 391 of 1883.
§ 792. Id. ; in mandamus or prohibition. Where a wait of mandamus
or of prohibition has been issued, from the general term, to a special term,
or a judge of the same court, the cause may, in the discretion of the court,
or, where an appeal is taken therein to the court of appeals, in the discre
tion of that court, be preferred over any of the causes specified in the last
section.
* So in the original.
793. When an order is necessary. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.]
ere the right to a preference depends upon facts, which do not appear in
the pleadings or other papers upon which the cause is to be tried or heard,
the party desiring a preference must procure an order therefore, from the
court, or a judge thereof, upon notice to the adverse party. A copy of the
order must be served, with or before the notice of trial or argument. Such
an order is not appealable ; but it may be vacated by the judge or judges
holding the term, at which the preferred cause is noticed for trial or hearing.
But a preliminary order is not requisite, in a case embraced within subdi
vision first or second of the last section but one ; and the order, in a case
embraced within subdivision sixth thereof, may be made ex parte, and is
conclusive.
§ 794. When cause passed, how placed upon the calendar. Where
an action or special proceeding, placed upon the calendar of a term of a
court of record, held in the city and county of New York, is regularly called
and passed, without a postponement by the court, for good cause shown, it
must thenceforth be placed on the same or a future calendar, as if the date
of the issue was the time when it was thus passed.
§ 795. Note of issue to state time when passed. In a case specified
in the last section, the party placing the cause upon the calendar, for a sub
sequent term, must state, in the note of issue, the date of issue, as pre
scribed in that section. If he omits to do so, by reason whereof the cause
retains its priority on the calendar, the court, on the application of the
adverse party, or of its own motion, may strike the cause from the calendar.
Paper may be served personally.
Other modes of service.
Double time when served through the post-office.
When paper to be served on attorney ; when service not required.
When service may be made on clerk, for non-resident.
Service through branch post-office in Now York city.
This article not applicable to service of summons, etc.

§ 796. Paper may be served personally. A notice or other paper in
an action may be served on a party or an attorney, either by delivering it to
him personally, or in the manner prescribed in the next section.
§ 797. Other modes of service. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] Where
the service is not personal, it may be made as follows :
1. Upon a party or an attorney, through the post-office, by depositing the
paper, properly inclosed in a post-paid wrapper, in the post-office of the
party or the attorney serving it, directed to the person to be served, at the
address within the State, designated by him for that purpose, upon the pre
ceding papers in the action ; or, where he has not made such a designation,
at his place of residence, or the place where he keeps an office, according to
the best information which can conveniently be obtained concerning the
same.
2. Upon an attorney, during his absence from his office, by leaving the
paper with his partner or clerk therein, or with a person having charge
thereof.
3. Upon an attorney, if there is no person in charge of his office, and the
service is made between six o'clock in the morning and nine o'clock in the
evening, either by leaving it in a conspicuous place in his office, or by
depositing it, inclosed in a sealed wrapper, directed to him, in his office
letter-box ; or, if the office is not open, so as to admit of leaving the paper
therein, and there is no office letter-box, by leaving it at his residence, within
the State, with a person of suitable age and discretion.
4. Upon a party by leaving the paper at his residence within the State,
between six o'clock in the morning and nine o'clock in the evening, with a
person of suitable age and discretion.
§ 798. Double time when served through the post-office. Where it
is prescribed in this act, or in the general rules of practice, that a notice
must be given, or a paper must be served, within a specified time, before an
act is to be done ; or that the adverse party has a specified time, after notice
or service, within which to do an act ; if service is made through the postoffice, the time so required or allowed is double the time specified ; except
that service of notice of trial may be made, through the post-office, not less
than sixteen days before the day of trial, including the day of service.
§ 799. When paper to be served on attorney ; when service not
required. "Where a party has appeared, a notice or other paper required to
be served in an action, must be served upon his attorney. If a defendant
has not appeared, service of a notice or other paper, in the ordinary pro
ceedings in the action, need not be made upon him, unless he is actually
confined in jail, for want of bail. ' .
800. When service may be made on clerk, for non-resident.
ere a party to an action, who has appeared in person, resides without the
State, or his residence cannot, with reasonable diligence, be ascertained, and
he has not designated an address, within the State, upon the preceding papers,
service of a paper upon him may be made, by serving it on the clerk.
§ 801. Service through branch post-office in New York city. In
the city of New York, where a paper is served, or a return is made, through
the post-office, the deposit of the package in a branch post-office has the
same effect, as a deposit in the general or principal post-office of that city.
§ 802. This article not applicable to service of summons, etc. This
article does not apply to the service of a summons, or other process ; or of a
paper to bring a party into contempt ; or to a case where the mode of service
is specially prescribed by law.

Court may direct discovery of books, etc.
Rules to prescribe the cases, etc.
Petition for discovery, and order thereupon.
Order, when and by whom vacated.
Proceedings upon the return of the order.
Penalty for disobedience.
Effect of papers, etc., produced.

§ 803. Court may direct discovery of books, etc. A court of record,
other than a justices' court in a city, has power to compel a party to an
action pending therein, to produce and discover, or to give to the other
party, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of a book, docu
ment, or other paper, in his possession or under his control, relating to the
merits of the action, or of the defense therein.
§ 804. Rules to prescribe the cases, etc. The general rules of prac
tice must prescribe the cases, in which a discovery or inspection may be so
compelled, and the proceedings for that purpose, where the same are not
prescribed in this act.
§ 805. Petition for discovery, and order thereupon. To entitle a
party to procure such a discovery or inspection, he must present a petition,
praying therefore, and verified by affidavit, to the court, or to a judge
authorized to make an order in the action ; upon which an order may be
made, directing the party, against whom the discovery or inspection is
sought, to allow it, or, in default thereof, to .show cause before the court, at
a time and place, and upon a notice, therein specified, why the prayer of
the petition should not be granted ; and, if necessary or proper, that his
proceedings be stayed until the hearing of the application, although the
stay exceeds twenty days.
§ 806. Order, when and by whom vacated. An order, made as pre
scribed in the last section, may be vacated, by the judge who granted it, or
by the court, upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit :
1. That it ought not to have been granted, or that it has been complied
with; or,
2. That the party required to make the discovery, or permit the inspec
tion, has not the possession or control of the book, document, or other paper,
directed to be produced or inspected.
§ 807. Proceedings upon the return of the order. Upon the return
of the order to show cause, the court may make such an order, with respect
to the discovery or inspection prayed for, as justice requires. Where either
is directed, a referee may be appointed by the order, to direct and superin
tend it; whose certificate, unless set aside by the court, is presumptive,
and, except in proceedings for contempt, conclusive evidence, of compliance
or non-compliance with the terms of the order. A fixed sum, not exceeding
twenty dollars, may be added to the costs of the motion, for the fees of the
referee.
§ 808. Penalty for disobedience. Where an order, made as prescribed
in the last section, directs a discovery or inspection, the party in whose
behalf it was made, may, upon proof, by affidavit, that the adverse party
has failed to obey it, and upon notice to him, apply to the court, for an order
to imnish him for the failure. Upon the hearing of the application, the
court may, upon the payment of such a sum, for the expenses of the appli
cant, as the court fixes, and upon compliance with such other terms, as it
deems just to impose, permit the party in default to comply with the order
for a discovery and inspection ; and, for that purpose, it may direct that the
application to punish him stand over to a future time. Upon the final hear
ing of the application to punish the party in default, the court, in a proper
case, may direct that his complaint be dismissed, or his answer or reply be
stricken out, and that judgment be rendered accordingly ; or it may make
an order, striking out one or more causes of action, defenses, counterclaims,
or replies, interposed by him ; or that he be debarred from maintaining a
particular claim or defense, in relation to wliich the discovery or inspection
was sought. Where the party has failed to obey an order, allowing an
inspection by the adverse party, and requiring him to furnish a copy or
permit a copy to be taken, the court may also direct that the book, document or other paper, be excluded from being given in evidence ; or it may
punish the party for a contempt ; or both.
§ 809. Effect of papers, etc., produced. A book, document, or other
paper, produced under an order, made as prescribed in this article, has the
same effect, when used by the party requiring it, as if it was produced upon
notice, according to the practice of the court.
§ 810. Bonds, undertakings, etc., must be acknowledged [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] A bond or undertaking given in an action or special
proceeding, as prescribed in this act, must be acknowledged or proved and
certified in like manner as a deed to be recorded.
§811. Party need not join with bis sureties ; when one surety is
sufficient. Where a provision of this act requires a bond or undertaking,
with sureties, to be given by, or in behalf of, a party or other person, he
need not join with the sureties in the execution thereof, unless the provision
requires him to execute the same ; and the execution thereof by one surety
is sufficient, although the word " sureties," is used, unless the provision
expressly requires two or more sureties.
§ 812. Form of bond or undertaking ; affidavit of sureties ; approval
by court or judge. A bond or undertaking, executed by a surety or sure
ties, as prescribed in this act, must, where two or more persons execute it,
be joint and several in form ; and, except as otherwise expressly prescribed
by law, it must be accompanied with the affidavit of each surety, subjoined
thereto, to the effect that he is a resident of, and a householder or a free
holder within, the State, and is worth the penalty of the bond, or twice the
sum specified in the undertaking, over all the debts and liabilities, which he
owes or has incurred, and exclusive of property exempt by law from levy and
sale under an execution. A bond or undertaking given by a party, without
a surety, must be accompanied by his affidavit to the same effect. The bond
or undertaking, except as otherwise expressly prescribed by law, must
be approved by the court, before which the proceeding is taken, or a judge
thereof, or the judge, before whom the proceeding is taken. The approval
must be indorsed upon the bond or undertaking.
§ 813. When several sureties may justify, each in a smaller sum.
But where the penalty of the bond, or twice the sum specified in the under
taking, is twenty thousand dollars, or upwards, the court or judge may, in
its or his discretion, allow the sum, in which a surety is required to justify,
to be made up by the justification of two or more sureties, each in a smaller
sum. But, in that case, a surety cannot justify in a sum less than ten thou
sand dollars ; and, where two or more sureties are required by law to justify,
the same person cannot so contribute to make up the sum, for more than one
of them.
§ 814. Bonds, etc., to the people or a public officer, for the benefit
of a suitor. Where a bond or undertaking has been given, as prescribed
by law, in the course of an action or special proceeding, to the people or to a
public officer, for the benelit of a party or other person interested, and pro
vision is not specially made by law for the prosecution thereof ; the party or
other person, so interested, may maintain an action in his own name, for a
breach of the condition of the bond, or of the terms of the undertaking ; upon
procuring an order, granting him leave so to do. T,ie order may be made
by the court, in which the action is or was pending ; or by a superior city
court, the marine court of the city of New York, or a county court, if the
bond or undertaking was given in a special proceeding, pending before a
judge of that court ; or in any other case, by the supreme court. Notice of
the application therefore must be given, as directed by the court or judge, to
the persons interested in the disposition of the proceeds.
§ 815. Bonds, etc., not affected by change of parties. A bond or
undertaking, given in an action or special proceeding, as prescribed in this
act, continues in force, after the substitution of a new party in place of an
original party, or any other change of parties ; and has thereafter the same
force and effect, as if then given anew, in conformity to the change of
parties.
§ 816. Id. ; to be filed. A bond or undertaking, required to be given by
this act, must be filed with the clerk of the court ; except where in a special
case, a different disposition thereof is directed by the court, or prescribed in
this act.
Consolidating' causes in same court.
Id. j in different courts.
Id. j by plaintifff.
Interpleader by order in certain cases.
Dismissal of complaint for neglect to serve summons.
Id. ; for neglect to proceed.
Feigned issues abolished and order for trial substituted.
Summons and pleadings to be filed within ten days after service.
Papers in special proceedings j where to be filed.
Publication, when no newspaper, etc., in county,
Special references in certain cases.

§ 817. Consolidating causes in same court Where two or more
actions in favor of the same plaintifff against the same defendant, for causes
of action which may be joined, are pending in the same court, the court may,
in its discretion, by order, consolidate any or all of them, into one action.
§ 818. Id. ; in different courts. Where one of the actions is pending in
the supreme court, and another is pending in another court, the supreme
court may, by order, remove to itself the action in the other court, and con
solidate it with that in the supreme court.
§ 819. Id.; by plaintifff. Where separate actions are commenced against
two or more joint and several debtors, in the same court, and for the same
cause of action, the plaintifff may, in any stage of the proceedings, consoli
date them in one action.
§ 820. Interpleader by order in certain cases. [Amended by Ch. 416
of 1877.] A defendant against whom an action to recover upon a contract,
or an action of ejectment, or an action to recover a chattel, is pending, may,
at any time before answer, upon proof, by affidavit, that a person, not a
party to the action, makes a demand against him for the same debt or prop
erty, without collusion with him, apply to the court, upon notice to that
person, and the adverse party, for an order to substitute that person in his
place, and to discharge him from liability to either, on his paying into court
the amount of the debt, or delivering possession of the property, or its value,
to such person as the court directs. The court may, in its discretion, make
such an order.
§ 821. Dismissal of complaint for neglect to serve summons.
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Where, in an action against two or more
defendants, the plaintifff unreasonably neglects to serve the summons upon
one or more of them, without whose presence a complete determination of
the controversy cannot be had, the court may, in its discretion, upon the
application of a defendant who has appeared in the action, dismiss the com
plaint as against him, and render judgment accordingly.
822. Id. ; for neglect to proceed. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.]
ere the plaintifff unreasonably neglects to proceed in the action against
the defendant, or one or more defendants against whom a separate judgment
may be taken, the court may, in its discretion, upon the application of the
defendant or defendants, or any of them, against whom he so neglects to
proceed, dismiss the complaint as against the moving party or parties, and
render judgment accordingly.
§ 823. Feigned issues abolished, and order for trial substituted
Feigned issues have been abolished. In a case, where neither party can, as
of right, require a trial by jury of an issue of fact arising upon the plead
ings, or where a question of fact, not in issue upon the pleadings, is to be
tried, an order for the trial thereof by a jury may be made, stating, dis
tinctly and plainly, the questions of fact to be tried. Such an order is the
only authority necessary for the trial.
§ 824. Summons and pleadings, to be filed within ten days after
service. The summons, and each pleading in an action, must be filed with
the clerk, by the party in whose behalf it is served, within ten days after
the service thereof. If the party fails so to file it, the adverse party, on
proof of the failure, is entitled, without notice, to an order from a judge, that
it be filed within a time specified in the order, or be deemed abandoned.
§ 825. Papers in special proceedings, where to be filed A return
or other paper in a special proceeding, where no other disposition thereof is
prescribed by law, must be filed, and an order therein must be entered,
with the clerk of the county in which the special proceeding is taken, if it
is before a county officer, or a judge of a court established in a city ; if
before a justice of the supreme court, with the clerk of a county designated
by the justice ; or, if no designation is made by him, of a county where one
of the parties resides.
§ 826. Publication, where no newspaper in county. [Amended by Ch.
416 op 1877.] Where a notice, or other proceeding, is required by law to
be published in a newspaper published in a county, and no newspaper is
published therein, or to be published oftener than any newspaper is regu
larly published therein, the publication may be made in a newspaper of an
adjoining county, except where special provision is otherwise made by law.
§ 827. Special references in certain cases. [Amended by Ch. 416 op
1877.] Where a provision of this act authorizes the court to approve an
undertaking, or the sureties thereto ; or to make an examination or inquiry ;
or to appoint an appraiser, receiver or trustee ; it may direct a reference, to
one or more persons designated in the order, either to make the approval,
examination, inquiry or appointment, or to report the facts to the court, for
its action thereupon. And where, according to the practice of the court of
chancery, on the thirty-first day of December, eighteen hundred and fortysix, a matter was referable to the clerk, or to a master in chancery, a court
having authority to act thereupon, may direct a reference to one or more
persons, designated in the order, with the powers which were possessed by
the clerk, or the master in chancery, except where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law.
A
§ 828. No witness to be excluded by reason of interest, etc. Except
as otherwise specially prescribed in this title, a person shall not be excluded
or excused from being a witness, by reason of his or her interest in the event
of an action or special proceeding ; or because he or she is a party thereto ;
or the husband or wife of a party thereto, or of a person in whose behalf an
action or special proceeding is brought, prosecuted, opposed or defended.
§ 829. When party, etc., cannot be examined [Amended by Ch. 416
or 1877.] Upon the trial of an action, or the hearing upon the merits of a
special proceeding, a party or person interested in the event, or a person
from, through or under whom such a party or interested person derives his in
terest or title, by assignment or otherwise, shall not be examined as a wit
ness, in his own behalf or interest, or in behalf of the party succeeding to
his title or interest, against the executor, administrator or survivor of a de
ceased person, or the committee of a lunatic, or a person deriving his title
or interest from, through or under a deceased person or lunatic, by assign
ment or otherwise, concerning a personal transaction or communication be
tween the witness and the deceased person or lunatic, except where the exe
cutor, administrator, survivor, committee or person so deriving title or inter
est, is examined in his own behalf, or the testimony of the lunatic or deceased
person is given in evidence concerning the same transaction or communication.
A person shall not be deemed interested for the purposes of this section, by reason of
being a stockholder or officer ofany banking corporation which is a party to the action
or proceeding or interested in the event thereof. [Am'd Ch. 703 of 1881.]
§ 830. Evidence of decedent, when it may be read. [Original sec
tion 8TRICKBN OUT BY Ch. 166 OP 1878 ; PRESENT SECTION INSERTED BY Ch.
542 op 1879.] Where a party has died since the trial of an action, or the
hearing upon the merits of a special proceeding, the testimony of the dece
dent, or of any person who is rendered incompetent by the provisions of the
last section, taken or read in evidence at the former trial or hearing, may be
given or read in evidence at a new trial or hearing by either party, subject
to any other legal objection to the competency of the witness, or to any legal
objection to his testimony or any question put to him.
§ 831. When husband and wife not competent witnesses. Id ;
when competent [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877 ; by Ch. 542 op 1879,
and by Ch. 149 op 1880.] A husband or a wife is not competent to testify
against the other upon the trial of an action, or the hearing upon the merits
of a special proceeding founded upon an allegation of adultery, except to
prove the marriage. A husband or wife shall not be compelled, or without
consent of the other if living, allowed to disclose a confidential communica
tion, made by one to the other, during marriage. In an action for criminal
conversation, the plaintifff's wife is not a competent witness for the plaintifff,
but she is a competent witness for the defendant, as to any matter in con
troversy; except that she cannot without the plaintifff's consent, disclose any
confidential communication had or made between herself and the plaintifff.
§ 832. Conviction for crime not to exclude witness ; how convic
tion proved. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] A person who has been
convicted of a crime or misdemeanor is, notwithstanding, a competent wit
ness in a civil or criminal action or special proceeding ; Tout the conviction
may be proved, for the purpose of affecting the weight of his testimony,
either by the record, or by his cross-examination, upon which he must an
swer any question, relevant to that inquiry ; and the party cross-examining
him is not concluded, by his answer to such a question.
§ 883. Clergymen, etc., not to disclose confessions. A clergyman, or
other minister of any religion, shall not be allowed to disclose a confession
made to him, in his professional character, in the course of discipline en
joined by the rules or practice of the religious body to which he belongs.
8 834. Physicians not to disclose professional information. A person
duly authorized to practice physic or surgery, shall not be allowed to disclose
any information which he acquired in attending a patient, in a professional
capacity, and which was necessary to enable him to act in that capacity.
§ 835. Attorneys and counsellors not to disclose communications.
An attorney or counsellor at law shall not be allowed to disclose a communi
cation, made by his client to him, or his advice given thereon, in the course
of his professional employment.
§ 836. Application of the last three sections. [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877.] The last three sections apply to every examination of a person as
a witness, unless the provisions thereof are expressly waived by the person
confessing, the patient or the client.
§ 837. When witness not excused from testifying. A competent wit
ness shall not be excused from answering a relevant question, on the ground
only that the answer may tend to establish the fact that he owes a debt, or
is otherwise subject to a civil suit. But this provision does not require a
witness to give an answer which will tend to accuse himself of a crime or
misdemeanor, or to expose him to a penalty or forfeiture ; nor does it vary
any other rule respecting the examination of a witness.
§ 838. Evidence of party may be rebutted The testimony of a party,
taken at the instance of the adverse party, orally or by deposition, may be
rebutted by other evidence.
§ 839. Admission by member of corporation. The admission of a
member of an aggregate corporation, who is not a party, shall not be received
as evidence against the corporation, unless it was made concerning and while
engaged in a transaction in which he was the authorized agent of the cor
poration.
§ 840. Seal, presumptive evidence of consideration [Amended bt
Ch. 416 op 1877.] A seal upon an executory instrument, hereafter executed,
is only presumptive evidence of a sufficient consideration, which may be re
butted, as if the instrument was not sealed.
§ 841. Presumption of death in certain cases. A person upon whose
life an estate in real property depends, who remains without the United
States, or absents himself, in the State or elsewhere, for seven years together,
is presumed to be dead, in an action or special proceeding, concerning the
property, in which his death comes in question, unless it is affirmatively
proved that he was alive within that time.


Before whom oaths and affidavits may be taken.
Id. ; in special cases.
Id. ; without the State.
General mode of swearing.
When kissing- the gospels dispensed with.
When affirmation to l>e made.
Other modes of swearing.
8wearing persons not Christians.
Court may examine witnesses.
Swearing falsely in any form, perjury.

§ 842. Before whom oaths and affidavits may be taken. An oath or
affidavit, required or authorized by law ; except an oath to a juror or a wit
ness upon a trial, an oath of office, and an oath required by law to be taken
before a particular officer ; may be taken before a judge, clerk, deputy-clerk,
or special deputy-clerk, of a court, a notary public, mayor, justice of the
peace, surrogate, special county judge, special surrogate, county clerk, deputy
county clerk, special deputy county clerk, or commissioner of deeds, within
the district in which the officer is authorized to act ; and when certified by
the officer to have been taken before him, may be used in any court, or be
fore any officer or other person.
§ 843. Id. ; in special cases. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where
an officer, person, board or committee, has been heretofore, or is hereafter
authorized by law, to take or hear testimony, or to hear or receive an affida
vit, or to take a deposition, in relation to a matter concerning which he or it
has a duty to perform, the officer or person, or a member of the board or
committee, may administer an oath for that purpose. Where an officer, per
son, board, or committee, to whom or to which application is made to do an
act in an official capacity, requires information or proof, to enable him or it
to decide upon the propriety of doing the act, he or it may receive an affi
davit for that purpose.
§ 844. Id. ; without the State. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] An
oath or affidavit required, or which may be received, in an action, special
proceeding, or other matter, may be taken without the State, except where
it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, before an officer authorized by the
laws of the State, to take and certify the acknowledgment and proof of deeds,
to be recorded in the State ; and, when certified by him to have been taken
before him, and accompanied with the like certificates, as to his official
character and the genuineness of his signature, as are required to entitle a
deed acknowledged before him to be recorded within the State, may be
used as if taken and certified in this State, by an officer authorized by law
to take and certify the same.
§ 845. General mode of swearing. The usual mode of administering
an oath, now practiced, by the person who swears laying his hand upon and
kissing the gospels must be observed, where an oath is administered, except
as otherwise specially prescribed in this article.
§ 846. When kissing the gospels dispensed with. The oath must be
administered in the following form, to a person who so desires, the laying
of the hand upon and kissing the gospels being omitted : " You do swear,
in the presence of the everliving God." While so swearing, he may or may
not hold up his hand, at his option.
§ 847. When affirmation to be made. A solemn declaration or affir
mation, in the following form, must be administered to a person who
declares that he has conscientious scruples against taking an oath, or swear
ing in any form : " You do solemnly, sincerely, and truly, declare and
affirm."
§ 848. Other modes of swearing. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
If the court or officer, before which or whom a person is offered as a witness,
is satisfied, that any peculiar mode of swearing, in lieu of, or in addition to
laying the hand upon and kissing the gospels, is in his opinion, more solemn
and obligatory, the court or officer may, in its or his discretion, adopt that
mode of swearing the witness.
§ 849. Swearing persons not Christians. [Amended by Ch. 416 op
1877.] A person, believing in a religion other than the Christian, may be
sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies, if any, of his religion, instead
of as prescribed in section eight hundred and forty-five or section eight
hundred and forty-six of this act.
§ 850. Court may examine witness. The court or officer may examine
an infant, or a person apparently of weak intellect, produced before it or
him, as a witness, to ascertain his capacity and the extent of his knowledge;
and may inquire of a person, produced as a witness, what peculiar ceremo
nies in swearing he deems most obligatory.
851. Swearing falsely in any form, perjury. A person swearing,
ming or declaring, in any form, where an oath is authorized by law, is
lawfully sworn, and is guilty of perjury, in a case where he would be guilty
of the same crime, if he had sworn by laying his hand upon and kissing
t
§ 852. Mode of serving subpoena issued out of a court A subpoena,
issued out of the court, to compel the attendance of a witness, and, where
the subpoena so requires, to compel him to bring with him a book or paper,
must be served as follows :
1. The original subpoena must be exhibited to witness.
2. A copy of the subpoena, or a ticket containing its substance, must be
delivered to him.
3. The fees allowed by law, for travelling to, and returning from, the place
where he is required to attend, and for one day's attendance, must be paid
or tendered to him.
§ 853. Penalty for disobedience. A person so subpoenaed, who fails,
without reasonable excuse, to obey the subpoena, or a person who fails, with
out reasonable excuse, to obey an order, duly served upon him, made by the
court or a judge, in an action, before or after final judgment therein, requir
ing him to attend, and be examined, or so to attend, and bring with him a
book or a paper, is liable, in addition to punishment for contempt, for the
damages sustained by the party aggrieved in consequence of the failure, and
fifty dollars in addition thereto. Those sums may be recovered in one action,
or in separate actions. If he is a party to the action in which he was sub
poenaed, the court may, as an additional punishment, strike out his pleading.
§ 854. Subpoena to be issued by judge, etc. [Amended by Ch. 416 of
1877.] Where a judge, or an arbitrator, referee, or other person, or a board
or committee, has been heretofore, or is hereafter expressly authorized by
law, to hear, try, or determine a matter ; or to do any other act in an official
capacity, in relation to which proofs may be taken, or the attendance of a
Eerson as a witness may be required ; or to require a person to attend, either
efore him or it, or before another judge, or officer, or a person designated
in a commission issued by a court of another State or country, to give testi
mony, or to have his deposition taken, or to be examined ; a subpoena may
be issued, by and under the hand of the judge, arbitrator, referee, or other
person, or the chairman, or a majority, of the board or committee, requiring
the person to attend ; and also, in a proper case, to bring with him a book
or a paper. The subpoena must be served, as prescribed in section eight
hundred and fifty-two of this act. This section does not apply to a matter
arising, or an act to be done, in an action in a court of record.
§ 855. Penalty for disobeying subpoena; warrant for witness.
[Amended bt Ch. 416 op 1877 and by Ch. 542 of 1879.] A person who is
duly subpoenaed, as prescribed in the last section, must obey the subpoena.
If he fails so to do, without a reasonable excuse, he is liable, in addition to
any other punishment which may be lawfully inflicted therefore, for the dam
ages sustained by the person aggrieved, in consequence of the failure, and
fifty dollars in addition thereto, to be recovered as prescribed in section eight
hundred and fifty-three of this act. If he fails to attend, the person issuing
the subpoena if he is a judge of a court of record or not of record, or if not,
then any judge of such a court, upon proof by affidavit of the failure to
attend, must issue a warrant to the sheriff of the county, commanding him
to apprehend the defaulting witness, and bring him before the officer, per
son, or body, before whom or which his attendance was required.
§ 856. When witness to be imprisoned. [Amended by Ch. 542 of
1879.] If the person subpoenaed and attending or brought as prescribed in
the last section, before an officer or other person or a body refuses without
reasonable cause to be examined, or to answer a legal and pertinent question,
or to produce a book or paper, which he was directed to bring by the terms
of the subpoena, or to subscribe his deposition after it has been correctly
reduced to writing, the person issuing the subpoena, if he is a judge of a
court of record, or not of record, may forthwith, or if he is not, then any
judge of such court may upon proof by affidavit of the facts by warrant com
mit the offender to jail, there to remain until he submits to do the act which
he was so required to do or is discharged according to law.
^ 857. Contents of warrant. A warrant of commitment, issued as pre
scribed in the last section, must specify particularly the cause of the commit
ment; and, if the witness is committed for refusing to answer a question,
the question must be inserted in the warrant.
§ 858. To whom directed ; how executed. A warrant to apprehend
or commit a person, issued as prescribed in this title, must be directed to the
sheriff of the county where the person is, and must be executed by him, in
the same manner, as a similar mandate issued, by a court of record, in an
action.
§ 859. Qualification of preceding sections. The foregoing sections of
this title do not apply to a subpoena issued by a justice of the peace; or to
a witness subpoenaed to attend a court held by a justice of the peace ; or to
a case where special provision is otherwise made by law, for compelling the
attendance of a witness.
§ 860. Witness exempt from arrest. A person duly and in good faith
subpoenaed or ordered to attend, for the purpose of being examined, in a
case where his attendance may lawfully be enforced by attachment or by
commitment, is privileged from arrest in a civil action or a special proceed
ing, while going to, remaining at, and returning from, the place where he is
required to attend.
168
§ 861. When to be discharged from arrest. The court from which a
subpoena, served in good faith, was issued, or by which an order was made
requiring a person to attend, for the purpose of being examined ; or a judge
thereof, upon proof, by affidavit, of the facts, must make an order, directing
the discharge of a witness or other person, from an arrest made in violation
of the last section.
§ 862. By whom witness may be discharged. [Amended by Ch. 416
of 1877.] A justice of the supreme court, in any part of the State, or a
county judge, or a judge of a superior city court, within his district, has the
like authority as a judge of the court, to make an order for a discharge, in a
case specified in the last section. Upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit of
the facts, he must also make an order, directing the discharge of a person
arrested, in violation of section eight hundred and sixty of this act, where a
subpoena, served in good faith upon the person arrested, was issued as pre
scribed in section eight hundred and fifty-four of this act.
§ 863. Arrest, when void ; penalty. An arrest made contrary to the
foregoing provisions of this title, is absolutely void, and is a contempt of the
court, if any, from which the subpoena was issued, or by which the witness
was directed to attend. An action may be maintained, by the person
arrested, against the officer or other person making such arrest, in which the
plaintifff is entitled to recover treble damages. A similar action may also be
maintained, in a like case, by the party in whose behalf the witness was
subpoenaed, or the order procured, to recover the damages sustained by him,
in consequence of the arrest.
§ 864. Sheriff not to be liable, unless affidavit is made. [Amended
by Ch. 416 of 1877.J But a sheriff, or other officer, or person, is not so liable,
unless the person claiming an exemption from arrest, makes, if required by
the sheriff or officer an affidavit to the effect that lie was legally subpoenaed,
or ordered to attend, and that he was not so subpoenaed or ordered by his
own procurement, with the intent of avoiding arrest. In his affidavit he
must specify the court or officer, the place of attendance and the cause in
which he was so subpoenaed or ordered. The affidavit may be taken before
the officer arresting him, and exonerates the officer from liability for not
making the arrest.
§ 865. Application of foregoing provisions to judgments. The fore
going provisions of this title, relating to a person required, by an order of a
court, to attend, apply, where such an attendance ia required by the terms
of a judgment.
§ 866. Records not to be removed by virtue of subpoena. The record
of a conveyance of real property, or any other record, or document, whereof
a transcript duly certified may by law be read in evidence, shall not be
removed, by virtue of a subpoena duces tecum, from the office in which it is
kept ; except temporarily, by the clerk having it in custody, to a term or
sitting of the court of which he is clerk ; or by the officer, having it in cus
tody, to a term or sitting of a court, or a trial before a referee, held in the
city or town where his office is situated. Where it is required at any other
place, it may be removed, by order of the supreme court, a superior city
court, or a county court, made in court, and entered in the minutes ; speci
fying that the production of the original, instead of a transcript, is necessary.
§ 867. Production, etc., of books of account. [Amended by Ch. 416
of 1877 and by Ch. 542 of 1879.] A person shall not be compelled to pro
duce, upon a trial or hearing, a book of account, otherwise than by an order
requiring him to produce it, or a subpoena duces tecum. Such a subpoena
must be served at least five days before the day when he is required to
attend. At any time after service of such a subpoena or order, the witness
may obtain, upon such a notice as the judge, referee, or other officer pre
scribes, an order relieving him wholly or partly from the obligations imposed
upon him by the subpoena or the order for production, upon such terms as
justice requires, touching the inspection of the book or any portion thereof,
or taking a copy thereof or extracts therefrom, or otherwise. An order may
be made, as prescribed in this section, by a judge of the court, or, in a special
proceeding, pending out of court before an officer, by the officer, or, in either
case, by a referee duly appointed in the cause, and authorized to hear testi
mony. A justice of the peace, or other judge of a court not of record, may
make such an order in an action brought in his court, at any time after the
commencement thereof.
§ 868. Books, etc., of corporation, how produced. The production,
upon a trial, of a book or paper, belonging to or under the control of a cor
poration, may be compelled, in like manner as if it was in the hands, or
under the control, of a natural person. For that purpose, a subpoena duces
tecum, or an order, made as prescribed in the last section, as the case
requires, must be directed to the president, or other head of the corporation,
or to the officer thereof, in whose custody the book or paper is.
§ 869. When personal attendance not required by subpoena duces
tecum. In a case specified in the last section, or where a subpoena duces
tecum, or an order, made as prescribed in section eight hundred and sixtysix or section eight hundred and sixty-seven of this act, requires a public
officer to attend, and bring a book or paper under his control, the subpoena
or order is deemed to be sufficiently obeyed, if the book or paper is produced
by a subordinate officer or employee of the corporation, or in the public office,
who possesses the requisite knowledge to identify it, and to testify respect
ing the purposes for which it is used. If the personal attendance of a par
ticular officf-r of the corporation or public officer is required, a subpoena,
without duces tecum clause, must also be served upon him.

ARTICLE FIRST.
Depositions, taken and to be used within the State.
Deposition of a party, etc.
Deposition of a witness not a party.
Application ; contents of affidavit.
Order for examination.
Punishment for disobeying order.
Service of order, etc.
Depositions when and where to be taken.
Application to vacate order.
Proceedings upon such application ; new order.
Deposition by consent.
Manner of taking and returning deposition.
When to be read in evidence.
Proof of witnesn's inability to attend.
Effect of deposition.
Original affidavits, evidence.
Deposition to be used on motion.
Where witness may be compelled to attend.
• Stricken out by <jn. tut oi 1877.
§ 870. Deposition of a party, etc. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877 and
by Ch. 299 of 1878.] The deposition of a party to an action pending in a
court of record or of a person who expects to be a party to an action about
to be brought in such a court, other than a court specified in subdivision
sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth or nineteenth of section two of this act,
may be taken at his own instance or at the instance of an adverse party or
of a co-plaintifff or co-defendant at any time before the trial, as prescribed
in this article.
§ 871. Deposition of a witness not a party. [Amended by Ch. 416
of 1877.] The deposition of a person not a party, whose testimony is
material and necessary to a party to an action pending in a court of record,
other than a court specified in subdivision sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth
or nineteenth of section two of this act, or to a person who expects to be a
party to an action, about to be brought in such a court, by a person other
than the person to be examined, may also be taken, as prescribed in this
article.
§ 872. Application ; contents of affidavit [Amended by Ch. 416 or
1877, by Ch. 542 op 1879 and by Ch. 536 of 1880.] The person desiring to
take a deposition, as prescribed in this article, may present to a judge of the
court in which the action is pending ; or, if it is pending in the supreme
court, to a county judge ; or, if an action is not pending, but is expected to
be brought, to a judge of the supreme court, or of a superior city court, or
to a county judge ; an affidavit, setting forth as follows :
1. The names and residences of all the parties to the action, and whether
or not they have appeared ; and, if either of them has appeared by attor
ney, the name, and the residence or office address of the attorney ; or, if no
action is pending, the names and residences of the expected parties thereto.
2. If an action is pending, the nature of the action and the substance of
the judgment demanded, and, if the application is made by the defendant
before answer, or by either party after answer, the nature of the defense.
3. If no action is pending, the nature of the controversy which is expected
to be the subject thereof.
4. The name and residence of the person to be examined, and tha,t the
testimony of such person is material and necessary for the party making
such application, or the prosecution or defense of such action, and, at the
option of the applicant, the place where he is sojourning, or where he regu
larly transacts business.
5. If an action is pending, that the person to be examined is about to
depart from the State ; or that he is so sick or infirm, as to afford reasonable
ground to believe that he will not be able to attend the trial ; or that any
other special circumstances exist, which render it proper that he should be
examined as prescribed in this article. But this subdivision does not apply
to a case, where the person to be examined is a party to the action.
6. If no action is pending, that the person expected to be the adverse
party is of full age, and a resident of the State, or sojourning within the
State ; or that he has an office within the State where he regularly transacts
business in person, specifying the place, and if it is in a city, the street and
street number, or other designation of the particular locality ; or if two or
more persons are expected to be adverse parties, that each is of full age, and
so resident or sojourning, or has such an office ; also the circumstances which
render it necessary for the protection of the applicant's rights, that the wit
ness's testimony should be perpetuated.
7. Any other fact necessary to show that the case comes within one of the
last two sections, and if the party sought to be examined is a corporation,
the affidavit shall state the name of the officers or directors thereof, or any
of them whose testimony is necessary and material, or the books and papers
as to the contents of which an examination or inspection is desired, and the
order to be made in respect thereto shall direct the examination of such per
sons and the production of such books and papers.
§ 873. Order for examination. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877 and by
Ch. 542 op 1879.] The judge, to whom such an affidavit is presented, must
grant an order for the examination, if an action is pending : if no action is
pending, he must grant it, if there is reasonable ground to believe that an
action will be brought, as stated in the affidavit, and that the application is
made in good faith to preserve the expected testimony ; otherwise he must
dismiss the application. Where the person to be examined is a party to a
pending action, or is expected to be a party to an action to be brought, the
order may, in the discretion of the judge, designate and limit the particular
matters as to which he shall be examined. The order must require the party
or person to be examined to appear before the judge, or except where the
person to be examined is a party to a pending action, or is expected to be a
party to an action to be brought, before a referee named in the order, for the
purpose of taking the examination, at a time and place therein specified.
The order must also direct the time of service of a copy thereof; which must
be made within the State, not more than twenty, nor less than five days,
before the time fixed for the examination, unless special circumstances, mak
ing a different time of service necessary, are shown in the affidavit, and that
fact is recited in the order.
§ 874. Attendance, how compelled [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
Witnesses' fees, at the rate prescribed by law in an action in the supreme court,
must be paid or tendered when the order is served upon the party or other person
required to attend. If the party or person so served fails to obey the order,
his attendance may be compelled and he may be punished, in like manner,
and the proceedings thereon are the same, as it he failed to obey a subpoena
issued from the court, in which the action is pending, or, if no action is pend
ing, from the court of which the judge is a member. [Am'd Ch. 397 op 1882.
See § 2.]
§ 875. Service of order, etc. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] A copy
of the order, and of the affidavit upon which it was granted, must be served
upon the attorney for each party to the action in like manner as a paper in
the action ; or, if a party has not appeared in the action, they must be served
upon him, as directed by the order. If no action is pending, they must be
personally served upon each of the persons named therein as expected
adverse parties.
§ 876. Deposition, when and where to be taken [Amended by
Ch. 542 op 1879.] Upon proof by affidavit that service of a copy of the order
and of the affidavit has been duly made, as directed in the order, the
judge or the referee must proceed to take the deposition of the witness, at the
time and place specified in the order. He may, from time to time, adjourn
the examination to another day, and to another place, within the same county.
Sections eight hundred and fifty-six, eight hundred and fifty-seven and eight
hundred fifty-eight of this act apply to the examination of a party or a per
son expected to be an adverse party, taken as prescribed in this article.
§ 877. Deposition of prisoner. Where the parly or other person to be
examined is confined in a prison or jail within the state, under a sentence for a
felony, that fact must be stated in the affidavit, and his deposition may be taken as
prescribed in the foregoing sections, as if he was not so confined, except that in such
a case, the granting or refusing the order, and, if granted, the appointment of a
referee to take the testimony, is always in Oie discretion of the judge. The order
m list require the production of the prisoner by the person in charge of the prison or
jail, at the prison or jail ; but it may prescribe such regulations and restrictions
with respect thereto as the judge deems proper. [Added Ch. 397 op 1882.]
§ 878. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 879. Deposition by consent. The parties to an action may stipulate
in writing that the deposition of a competent witness, to be used therein,
miiy be taken before a judge or referee, at a time and place specified in the
stipulation, either orally, or upon interrogatories, to be agreed upon in like
manner. The witness may be subpoenaed to attend the examination as
upon a trial, and the judge or referee may take his deposition, as if an order
had been made by the court directing it to be so taken. But this section does
not apply to a case specified in section 877 of this act. [Am'd Ch. 397 Of 1882.
See § 2.]
880. Manner of taking and returning deposition [Amended bt Ch
op 1879.J The examination of a party, or an expected party, is subject
to the same rules as if he was examined upon the trial. The judge or refe
ree, upon every other examination taken as prescribed in this article, must
insert therein every answer or declaration of the person examined which
either party requires to be inserted. The deposition, when completed, must
be carefully read to and subscribed by the person examined ; must be certi
fied by the judge or referee taking it ; and, within ten days thereafter, must
be filed in the office of the clerk ; or, if no action is pending, in the office of
the clerk of the county in which it was taken ; together with the stipulation
or order, under which it was taken ; the affidavit upon which the order was
granted ; and proof of the service of a copy of the order and of the affidavit.
If, upon an examination before a referee, the person examined refuses to
answer any question, the referee must report the fact to the court or judge,
who must determine whether the question is relevant, and whether the wit
ness is bound to answer it.
§ 881. When to be read in evidence. The deposition, or a certified
copy thereof, may be read in evidence by either party, at the trial of, or upon
the assessment of damages, by writ of inquiry, or upon a reference, or other
wise, in the action specified in the original affidavit or stipulation; or any other
action thereafter brought, between the same parties, or between any parties
claiming under them, or either of them ; or, if no action is pending, an action
thereafter brought, between the persons named in the original affidavit as
expected parties, or between persons claiming under them or either of them.
§ 882. Proof of witness's inability to attend But such a deposition,
except that of a party, taken at the instance of an adverse party, or a depo
sition taken in pursuance of a stipulation, as prescribed in this article, shall
not be so read in evidence until it has been satisfactorily proved that the
witness is dead, or is unable personally to attend by reason of his insanity,
sickness, or other infirmity, or that he is confined in a prison or jail; or that, he
has been and is absent, from the State, so that his attendance could not,
with reasonable diligence, be compelled by subpoena. [Am'd Ch. 397 op
1882.]
§ 883. Effect of deposition. A deposition, so read in evidence, has the
same effect, and no other, as the oral testimony of the witness would have ;
and an objection to the competency or credibility of the witness ; or to the
relevancy or substantial competency of a question put to him, or of an answer
given by him ; may be made, as if the witness was then personally examined,
and without being noted upon the deposition.
§ 884. Original affidavits, evidence. The original affidavits, filed with
such a deposition, or certified copies thereof, are presumptive evidence of the
facts therein contained to 6how a compliance with the provisions of this article.
§ 885. Deposition to be used on motion [Amended bt Ch. 416 of
1877.1 Where a party intends to make or oppose a motion in a court of
record, other than a court specified in subdivision sixteen, seventeen,
eighteen or nineteen, of section two of this act, and it is necessary for him
to have the affidavit or deposition of a person, not a party, to use upon
the motion, the court, or a judge authorized to make an order, in the cause,
may, in its or his discretion, make an order, appointing a referee to take the
deposition of that person, The order must be founded upon proof, by
affidavit, that the applicant intends to make the motion, or that notice of a
motion has been given, which the applicant intends to oppose. The affidavit
must specify the nature of the motion, and must show that the affidavit or
deposition is necessary thereon, and that such person has refused to make
an affidavit of the facts, which the applicant verily believes are within his
knowledge. The order may be made upon or without notice. The person
to be examined may be subpoenaed, and compelled to attend, as upon the
trial. The deposition when taken, must be delivered to the attorney for
the party who procured the order, unless the order provides for a different
disposition thereof.
§ 886. Where witness may be compelled to attend Where a person
to be examined, as prescribed in this article, is a resident of the State, he
shall not be required to attend in any county, other than that in which he
resides, or where he has an office for the regular transaction of business, in
person. Where he is not a resident, he shall not be required to attend in any
other county, than that wherein he is served with a subpoena, unless, for
special reasons, stated in the affidavit, the order otherwise directs.
888, When commission to issue, etc.
How and upon what terms granted.
Order made by judge.
Interrogatories ; how settled.
Id. ; to be annexed ; directions for return.
Commission to examine upon oral questions.
When open commission may issue, or depositions may be taken.
Last two sections not applicable to infants, etc., or foreign countries.
Notice of examination upon oral questions.
Open commission.
Order directing depositions to be taken.
Before whom depositions may * taken ; notice of taking.
How depositions taken.
Commissions or order to take depositions ; how executed and returned.
Certificate of execution.
Certificate ; a sufficient return.
Return by agent.
If agent is sick or dead.
907. Filing disposition, etc., so returned.
Commission, etc., by consent.
Where return to be kept ; parties may inspect it, etc.
When deposition may be suppressed.
Depositions, etc., evidence.
When interrogatories and deposition may be in a foreign language.
Letters rogatory.
§ 887. When commission to issue, etc. [Amended by Ch. 542 of 1879.]
In a case specified in the next section, where it appears, by affidavit, on the
application of either party, that the testimony of one or more witnesses, not
within the State, is material to the applicant ; a commission may be issued,
to one or more competent persons named therein ; authorizing them, or any
one of them, to examine the witness or witnesses named therein, under oath,
upon the interrogatories* annexed to the commission ; to take and certify
the deposition of each witness, and to return the same, and the commission,
according to the directions given in or with the commission. The applicant,
or any other party to the action, may be thus examined.
§ 888. The same. Such a commission may be issued, in either of the
following cases :
1. Where a party to an action, brought in a court of record, is in default
for want of an appearance or pleading, and the testimony is required upon
the assessment of damages, by a writ of inquiry, or upon a reference ; or
otherwise, to enable the court to render the proper final judgment.
2. Where final judgment has been rendered against the adverse party, in
an action brought in a court of record ; and the testimony is required, in
order to carry the judgment into effect.
3. Where an appeal from a final judgment, rendered in the supreme
court, a superior city court, the marine court of the city of New York, or a
county court, or a motion for a new trial in either of those courts, is pend
ing ; and the testimony will be material and necessary to the applicant in
the prosecution or defense of the action, if a new trial is granted.
4. Where the application is made before the joinder of issue, in an action
brought in either of the courts, specified in the last subdivision ; and there
is reason to apprehend, that before issue is joined, and an application for a
commission can thereafter be made, the witness will die, or become unable
to give his testimony, or remove, so that his testimony cannot be taken.
5. Where an issue of fact has been joined, in an action pending in a
court of record, and the testimony is material to the applicant, in the prose
cution or defense thereof.
§ 889. How and upon what terms granted. In a case specified in
subdivision third of the last section, if the appeal has been taken to another
court, the application must be made to the court in which the judgment was
rendered; and an order, directing the commission to be issued, may be
granted or refused, in the discretion of that court. In a case specified in
either of the other subdivisions of that section, the application may be made
to the court, or a judge thereof, or, in the supreme court, to the county judge
of the county, where the action is triable ; and it must be granted, upon
satisfactory proof of the facts authorizing it, unless the court or judge has
reason to believe, that the application is not made in good faith, or unless
an order for an open commission, or for taking depositions, is made as pre
scribed in this article. Notice of the application must be given to the
adverse party, unless he is in default for want of an appearance. Upon
granting the order, the court or judge may, in any case, impose such terms
as justice requires.
§ 890. Order made by judge. Where the order is made by a judge, out
of court, it must be entered in the office of the clerk. It shall be granted,
only in a case, where the court would grant it, and upon the same terms ;
and it is subject to the control of the court.
So in the original.
§ 891. Interrogatories ; how settled. Unless the interrogate ies, to be
annexed to the commission, are settled by consent of the parties, 1 ley must
be settled, upon notice, by a judge of the court, or, in the supreme court, by
the county judge of the county where the action is triable, as pret eribed. in
the general rules of practice.
§ 892. Id. ; to be annexed ; directions for return. The interrogato
ries, when settled, must be annexed to the commission. Either party must
be allowed to insert therein any question pertinent to the issue which he
proposes. Unless the parties stipulate in writing, or the order granting the
commission prescribes how it shall be returned, the judge must indorse upon
the commission the proper direction for that purpose. Unless the court or
judge thinks proper to direct it to be returned by an agent, it must be re
turned through the post-office.
§ 893. Commission to examine wholly or partly upon oral questions.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where an issue of fact, joined in an action,
is pending in the supreme court, a superior city court, the marine court of
the city of New York, or a county court, the parties may stipulate, in*
writing, or the court to which, or the judge to whom, an application for a
commission is made, may, in its or his discretion, direct, in the order, that
a commission issue without written interrogatories, and that the depositions
be taken upon oral questions ; or that a commission issue to take the deposi
tion of one or more witnesses, designated in the order, partly upon oral
questions and partly upon written interrogatories, or to take the deposition
of one or more witnesses, designated in the order, upon oral questions, and
one or more witnesses, designated in the order, upon written interrogatories.
§ 894. When open commission may issue, or depositions may be
taken. Where an issue of fact, joined in an action, is pending in either of
the courts specified in the last section, the parties may stipulate, in writing,
or the court, or a judge thereof, or, in the supreme court, the county judge
of the county where the action is triable, may in its or his discretion, upon
the applieation of either party, and upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit,
that one or more witnesses, not within the State, are material and necessary
in the prosecution or defense of the action, make an order, upon such terms
as it or he deems proper, directing that an open commission issue, or that
depositions be taken, as prescribed in the following sections of this article.
§ 895. Last two sections not applicable to infants, etc., or foreign
countries. [Amended by Ch. 542 of 1879.] The last two sections are not
applicable where the adverse party is an infant, or the committee of a per
son judicially declared to be incapable of managing his affairs, by reason
of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunkenness ; or where the testimony is to be
taken elsewhere than in the United States, or in Canada. Nor can the
applicant be examined in his own behalf, as prescribed in those sections,
except by consent of the parties.
§ 896. Notice of examination upon oral questions. Where a commis
sion is issued to take testimony without written interrogatories, as pre
scribed in section eight hundred and ninety-three, or section eight hundred
and ninety-four of this act, notice of the time and place of the examination
of a witness, by virtue thereof, naming the witness, must be served as pre
scribed in section eight hundred and ninety-nine of this act.
§ 897. Open commission An open commission must be directed to one
or more persons, named therein, and must authorize them, or any one of
them, to examine any witness who may be produced by either party, on or
before a day specified therein, upon oral questions to be pnt to the witness,
■when he is produced ; to take and certify the deposition of each witness so
examined ; and to return the same, and the commission, immediately after
the expiration of the time limited for the production of witnesses, according
to the directions given in or with the commission.
§ 898. Order directing depositions to be taken. An order directing
that depositions be taken, must specify the time within which they must be
taken, and the manner in which they must be returned. It may also con
tain such additional directions, not inconsistent with the next section, with
respect to the time and manner of giving notice, as the court or judge deema
proper. The order must be entered in the clerk's office ; and a certified copy
thereof must be annexed to each deposition, or set of depositions, returned
as prescribed in the following sections of this article.
§ 899. Before whom depositions may be taken ; notice of taking.
A deposition may be taken, pursuant to such an order, before a person
mutually agreed upon by the parties, or a chancellor, or a judge of a court
of record, or the mayor or other chief magistrate of a city, or a justice of
the peace of the State or Territory, where the witness is ; who is not counsel
or attorney for either party, and would not be disqualified, by reason of
affinity or consanguinity to a party, or interest in the event, from serving
as a juror upon the trial of the action, within the State. Written notice of
the time and place of taking a deposition, specifying the name of the wit
ness, aud the person before whom it will be taken, must be served by the
party, at whose instance it is taken, upon the attorney for the adverse
party. The time for serving such a notice must be, at least, five judicial
days before the deposition is taken ; and one judicial day, in addition, for
each fifty miles, by the usual route of travel, between the residence of the
attorney for the adverse party, and the place where the deposition is to be
taken.
§ 900. How depositions taken Upon the examination of a witness,
without written interrogatories, by virtue of a commission, or of an order to
take depositions, the commissioner, or the person before whom the deposi
tion is taken, must take down, or cause to be taken down, as prescribed in
the next section, the substance of the witness's testimony ; unless he is
directed, in the commission or the order, or required by the person appear
ing for either party, to insert in the deposition any or all of the questions
or answers, word for word. Unless the commission or order otherwise
directs, the person, appearing for either party, may ask any question, which
he deems proper, and the witness's answer must be taken accordingly, the
objections thereto being reserved, without being specified at the time of
examination. A copy of this section must be annexed to each commission
to take testimony without written interrogatories, and to each certified copyof an order to take a deposition.
901. Commission or order to take depositions ; how executed
returned. The person, to whom a commission is directed, or before
whom a deposition is taken, unless otherwise expressly directed in the com
mission, or in the order for taking the depositions, must execute the com
mission, or the order, as follows :
1. He must publicly administer, to each witness examined, an oath or
affirmation to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,
as to the matters respecting which the witness is to be examined.
2. He must reduce the examination of each witness to writing, or cause it to be reduced to writing, by a disinterested person. After it has been
carefully read, to or by the witness, it must be subscribed by the witness.
3. If an exhibit is produced and proved, the exhibit, or, if the witness,
or other person having it in his custody, does not surrender it, a copy
thereof, must be annexed to the deposition to which it relates, subscribed
by the witness proving it, and numbered or otherwise identified, in writing
thereupon, by the commissioner, or person taking the deposition, who must
subscribe his name thereto.
4. The commissioner or person taking the deposition, must subscribe his
name to each half sheet of the deposition ; he must annex all the depositions
and exhibits to the commissions, or to a certified copy of the order for taking
the deposition, with the certificate specified in the next section ; and he
must close them up under his seal, and address the packet to the clerk of
the court, at his official residence.
5. If there is a direction, on the commission, or in the order, to return the
same through the post-office, he must immediately deposit the packet, so
addressed, in the post-office, and pay the postage thereon.
6. If there is a direction, on the commission, or in the order, to return the
same by an agent of the party, at whose instance it was issued or granted,
the packet so addressed must be delivered to the agent.
7. Where a commission is directed to two or more persons, one or more of
them may execute it, as prescribed in this and the next section.
A copy of this and of the next section must be annexed to each commis
sion, or order to take depositions, authorized by this article.
* § 902. Certificate of execution. The commissioner or other person,
before whom one or more depositions are taken, must subscribe, and annex
to each deposition, a certificate, substantially in the following form, the
blanks being properly filled up :
" State " (or " Territory ") " of
" \ sa
" County " or "parish " " of
"/ 1
k "I,
, do certify that
, the witness, personally appeared
before me on the
day of
, at
o'clock in the
noon,
at the
, in the " State " (or " Territory ") " of
,
and after being sworn " (or " affirmed," as the case may be), " to testify the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, did depose to the matters
contained in the foregoing deposition, and did, in my presence, subscribe the
same, and indorsed the exhibits annexed thereto. And I further certify that
I have subscribed my name to each half-sheet thereof, and to each exhibit.
And I further certify that
appeared in behalf of the
,
and that
appeared in behalf of the
§ 903. Certificate a sufficient return. The certificate specified in the
last section, is a sufficient return to a commission.
§ 904. Return by agent. If the packet, specified in section nine hun
dred and one of this act, is delivered to an agent, he must deliver it to the
clerk, to whom it is addressed, or to a judge of the court, either of whom
must receive and open it, upon the agent making affidavit, that he received
it from the hands of the commissioner, or the person who took the deposition,
and that it has not been opened or altered, since he so received it.
§ 905. If agent is sick or dead. If the agent is dead, or, from sick
ness or other casualty, is unable to deliver the packet personally, as pre
scribed in the last section, it must be received, by the clerk or judge, from
the hands of any other person, upon the latter making an affidvit, that he
received it from the agent ; that the agent is dead, or otherwise unable to
deliver it ; that it has not been opened or altered since he received it and
that he believes that it has not been opened or altered, since it came from
the hands of the commissioner, or the person who took the deposition.
§ 906. Filing deposition, etc., so returned. The clerk or judge, who
receives and opens the packet, as prescribed in the last two sections, must
indorse thereupon, and sign, a note of the time of the receipt and opening
thereof, and immediately file it in the office of the clerk, together with the
affidavit of the person who delivered it to him.
§ 907. The same. If the packet is transmitted through the post-office,
the clerk, to whom it is addressed, must receive it from the post-office, open
it, indorse thereupon, and sign, a like note of the time of the receipt and
opening thereof, and immediately file it in his office.
J\ 908. Commission, etc., by consent. A commission may issue, or an
er to take depositions may be made, by consent, in a case where either
may be directed by the court or a judge, as prescribed in this article. On
filing a stipulation to that effect., signed by the attorneys for the parties, the
clerk must enter an order accordingly ; and thereupon the attorney for the
party, procuring the order, may insert in the commission, or indorse upon or
annex to it, or the order, the necessary directions for the execution and
return thereof, according to the stipulation.
§ 909. Where return to be kept ; parties may inspect it, etc. A com
mission, or copy of an order to take depositions, with the certificates, returns,
depositions, and exhibits thereto annexed, must remain on file in the office
of the clerk, unless otherwise provided by the stipulation of the parties, or
unless the court, by a special order, directs them to be filed in the office of
another clerk. They are always open to the inspection of the parties, either
of whom is entitled to a copy of them, or of any part thereof, on payment
of the fees allowed by law.
§ 910. When deposition may be suppressed Where it appears, by
affidavit, that a deposition has been improperly or irregularly taken or
returned ; or that the personal attendance of the witness, upon the trial,
could have been procured, with due diligence, by a subpoena ; or that the
attorney for either party has practiced any fraud, or unfair or overreaching
conduct, to the prejudice of the adverse party, in the course of the proceed
ings ; an order, for the suppression of the deposition, may be made by the
court, upon the application of the party aggrieved, upon notice to the adverse
party.
§ 911. Deposition, etc., evidence. A deposition taken and returned as
prescribed in this article, or an exemplified copy thereof, if the original is
filed in another county, may, unless it is suppressed as prescribed in the last
section, be read in evidence by either party. It has the same effect, and no
other, as the oral testimony of the witness would have ; and an objection to
the competency or credibility of the witness, or to the relevancy, or substan
tial competency, of a question put to him, or of an answer given by him,
may be made, as if the witness was then personally examined, and without
being noted upon the deposition.
§ 912. When interrogatories and deposition may be in a foreign lan
guage. Upon an application, made in the supreme court, a superior city
court, the marine court of the city of New York, or a county court, for a com
mission to be issued to a foreign country, if it satisfactorily appears, by affi
davit, that the witness does not understand the English language, the order
for the commission may, in the discretion of the court or judge, direct that
written interrogatories annexed thereto, by way of direct or cross-examina
tion, be framed in the English language, and also in a foreign language ;
that only the interrogatories framed in the foreign language be put to the
witness; and that his answers be taken, and the certificates be made out in
the same language. Where such an order is made, it must provide for the
payment, by the applicant, to the adverse party, of a reasonable sum, fixed
therein, for the expense of procuring the interrogatories, in his behalf, to be
translated. The judge, who settles the interrogatories, must settle them in
the foreign language, and in the English language ; and, for that purpose,
he may call in the assistance of one or more experts, whose compensation
must be fixed by the judge, and paid by the applicant. When the deposi
tion is read in evidence, it, and the interrogatories, must be interpreted into
the English language, as if the witness, being unable to speak the English
language, was personally present and testifying.
§ 913. Letters rogatory. Letters rogatory may be issued from either of
the courts specified in the last section, in its discretion, in a case where a
commission may be issued, as prescribed in this article, upon satisfactory
proof, by affidavit, that there is good reason to believe, that the ends of jus
tice will be better promoted thereby, than by the issuing of a commission ;
notwithstanding that a commission can be executed, in the country to which
they are sent. Letters rogatory can be issued only to examine one or more
witnesses, upon written interrogatories, annexed thereto ; which must be
framed and settled, and the depositions must be returned, as prescribed in
this article, with respect to the interrogatories annexed to a commission, and
the depositions taken thereunder.
In what cases deposition may be taken.
Subpoena to witness.
Contents of subpoena.
Subpoena, when no commission is issued.
Justice of the peace may subpoena witness.
Taking' and return of deposition.
Penalty for not appearing'.
§ 914. In what cases deposition may be taken. A party to an action,
Buit, or special proceeding, civil or criminal, pending in a court without the
State, either in the United States, or in a foreign country, may obtain, in
the manner prescribed in this article, tho testimony of a witness within the
State, to be used in the action, suit, or special proceeding.
§ 915. Subpoena to witness. Where a commission to take testimony,
within the State, has been issued from the court, in which the action, suit,
or special proceeding is pending ; or where a notice has been given, or any
other proceeding has been taken, for the purpose of taking the testimony,
within the State, pursuant to the laws of the State or country, wherein the
court is located, or pursuant to the laws of the United States, if it is a court
of the United States; the commission, notice, or other paper, authorizing the
testimony to be taken, may be presented, in behalf of the party desiring to
obtain it, to a justice of the supreme court, or a county judge, with proof, by
affidavit, that the testimony of the witness is material to the party. The
judge must thereupon issue a subpoena to the witness, commanding him to
appear before the commissioner named in the commission ; or before a corn
missioner, within the State, for the State, Territory, or foreign country, in
•which the notice was given, or the proceeding taken ; or before the officer
designated in the commission, notice, or other paper, by his title of office ;
at a time and place specified in the subpcBna, to testify in the action, suit,
or special proceeding.
§ 916. Contents of subpoena. The place where the witness is com
manded to attend, must be within the county in which he resides or sojourns,
or, if it is in another county, not more than forty miles distant from his resi
dence or the place of his sojourn.
§ 917. Subpoena, when no commission is issued. [Amended by Ch.
416 of 1877.] Where an action, suit, or special proceeding is pending in a
court of another State, or of a Territory, or of the United States, and proof
is made, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of a justice of the supreme court, or
a county judge, as follows :
1. That a person, residing or sojourning within the State, is a material
witness for either party.
2. That a commission, to take the testimony of the witness, has not been
issued.
3. That, according to the course and practice of the court, in which the
action, suit, or special proceeding is pending, the deposition of a witness,
taken as the one applied for is required to be taken, is authorized to be
received in evidence on the trial or hearing.
The judge must issue a subpoena, commanding the witness to appear
before him, at a specified time, and at a place within the county in which
the witness resides or sojourns, to testify in the action, suit, or special pro
ceeding.
§ 918. Justice of the peace may subpoena witness. [Amended bt
Ch. 416 op 1877.J Where proof is made, by affidavit or otherwise, to the
satisfaction of a justice of the peace :
1. That a civil action, suit, or special proceeding is pending in a court of
another State, or of a Territory, or of the United States.
2. That a person, residing or sojourning in the town or city in which the
justice resides, is a material witness for either party.
3. That according to the practice of the court, in which the action, suit,
or special proceeding is pending, the deposition of a wntness, taken as the
one applied for is required to be taken, is authorized, to be received in evi
dence on the trial or hearing.
The justice must issue a subpoena, commanding the witness to appear
before him, at a specified time, and at a place within the town or city, in
which the witness resides or sojourns, to testify in the action, suit, or special
proceeding.
§ 919. Taking and return of deposition The officer before whom a
witness appears, in a case specified in this article, must take down his testi
mony in writing ; and must certify and transmit it to the court, in which
the action, suit, or special proceeding is pending, as the practice of that
court requires.
§ 920. Penalty for not appearing. A person who fails to appear, at the
time and place specified in a subpeena, issued as prescribed in this article,
and duly served upon him ; or to testify ; or to subscribe his deposition,
when correctly taken down; is liable to the penalties, which would be
incurred in a like case, if he was subpoenaed to attend the trial of an action
in a justices court; and, for that purpose, the officer, before whom he is
required to appear, possesses all the powers of a justice of the peace upon
a trial.
Certain official certificates, evidence.
Certificate, etc., on file, evidence.
Notary's certificate, evidence.
Notary's protest and memorandum ; when evidence.
Proof of presentment, etc., of foreign bills.
Affidavit of printer, etc., evidence.
Id. ; of service of notice.
Marriage certificate, evidence.
Book of foreign corporation ; when evidence.
When a copy thereof is evidence.
How copy to be verified.

§ 921. Certain official certificates, evidence. Where the officer, to
whom the legal custody of a paper belongs, certifies, under his hand and
official seal, that he has made diligent examination, in his office, for the
paper, and that it cannot be found, the certificate is presumptive evidence
of the fact so certified, as if the officer personally testified to the same.
§ 922. Certificate, etc., on file, evidence. Where a public officer is
required or authorized, by special provision of law, to make a certificate or
an affidavit, touching an act performed by him, or to a fact ascertained by
him, in the course of his official duty ; and to file or deposit it in a public
office of the State ; the certificate or affidavit, so filed or deposited, or an
exemplified copy thereof, is presumptive evidence of the facts therein alleged,
except where the effect thereof is declared or regulated, by special provision
of law.
§ 923. Notary's certificate, evidence. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.1
The certificate of a notary public of the State, under his hand and seal of
office, of the presentment by him, for acceptance or payment, or of the pro
test, for non-acceptance or non-payment, of a promissory note or bill of
exchange, or of the service of notice thereof on a party to the note or bill ;
specifying the mode of giving the notice, the reputed place of residence of
the party to whom it was given, and the post-office nearest thereto; is pre
sumptive evidence of the facts certified, unless the party, against whom it
is offered, has served upon the adverse party, with his pleading, or within
ten days after a joinder of an issue of fact, an original affidavit, to the effect,
that he has not received notice of non-acceptance, or of non-payment, of the
note or bill. A verified answer is not sufficient as an affidavit, within the
meaning of this section.
§ 924. Notary's protest and memorandum ; when evidence. In case
of the death or insanity of a notary public of the State, or of his absence
or removal, so that his personal attendance, or his testimony, cannot be pro
cured, in any mode prescribed by law, his original protest, under his hand
and official seal, the genuineness thereof being first duly proved, is pre
sumptive evidence of a demand of acceptance, or of payment, therein stated;
and a note or memorandum, personally made or signed by him, at the foot
of a protest, or in a regular register of official acts, kept by him, is pre
sumptive evidence that a notice of non-acceptance or non-payment was
sent or delivered, at the time, and in the manner, stated in the note or
memorandum.
§ 925. Proof of presentment, etc., of foreign bills. Proof of the pre
sentment, for acceptance or payment, of a promissory note or bill of exchange,
payable in another State, or in a Territory, or foreign country, or of a pro
test of the note or bill, for non-acceptance or non-payment, or of the service
of notice thereof, on a party to the note or bill, may be made, in any manner
authorized by the laws of the State, Territory, or country where it was
payable.
§ 926. Affidavit of printer, etc., evidence. [Amended by Ch. 416 op
1877.] The affidavit of the printer or publisher of a newspaper, published
within the State, or of his foreman or principal clerk, showing the publica
tion of a notice or other advertisement, authorized or required, by a law of
the State, to be published in that newspaper, annexed to a printed copy of
the notice or other advertisement, may be read in evidence ; and is presump
tive evidence of the publication, and, also, of the matters stated therein,
showing that the deponent is authorized to make the affidavit. But this
section does not apply to a case, where the affidavit is required by law to be
filed, unless it has been duly filed; or to a case, where the mode of proving
a publication is otherwise specially prescribed by law.
§ 927. Id ; of service of notice. Where it is necessary, upon the trial
of an action, to prove the service of a notice, an affidavit, showing the
service to have been made by the person making the affidavit, is presump
tive evidence of the service, upon first proving that he is dead or insane, or
that his personal attendance cannot be compelled, with due diligence.
§ 928. Marriage certificate, evidence. [Amended by Ch. 542 of 1879.]
An original certificate of a marriage, within the State, made by the minister
or magistrate by whom it was solemnized ; the original entry thereof, made,
pursuant to law, in the office of the clerk of a city or a town within the
State ; or a copy of the certificate, or of the entry, duly certified, is pre
sumptive evidence of the marriage.
§ 929. Book of foreign corporation ; when evidence. Where a party
wishes to prove an act or transaction of a foreign corporation ; the book or
books of the corporation may be used for that purpose, as presumptive
evidence, whether any or all of the parties are or are not members of the
corporation.
§ 930. When a copy thereof is evidence. If an original book is not
produced at the trial, as prescribed in the last section, a copy thereof, or of
an entry therein, verified as prescribed in the next section, may be used,
with like effect as the original book ; provided that the party, intending to
use the copy, gives the adverse party at least ten days' notice of his intention,
specifying briefly the nature of the evidence proposed to be given. But
this and the next section do not apply, where the foreign corporation is a
party to the action, and seeks to prove its own act or transaction, in its own
behalf.
§ 931. How copy to be verified. The copy must be verified by the
deposition, taken as prescribed by law, or the oral testimony, taken at the
trial, of the person who made it, or of a person who has examined and com
pared it with the original book, or the entry therein. The witness must
testify that the copy produced is correct ; that he made it, or compared it
■with the original ; and that he then knew that the original book so copied,
or containing the entry, was the book of the corporation; or that it was
then acknowledged to him to be such, by an officer or receiver of the corpor
ation, or a person having the custody thereof, naming the person who made
the acknowledgment ; and he must specify where, and in whose custody,
the original was then kept.
A
Statutes, etc. j how proved.
Copies of records and papers in certain offices, presumptive evidence.
Id. ; of papers filed with town clerk.
Conveyance, when acknowledged, or record, or transcript of record, evidence.
Such evidence may be rebutted.
What instruments may be acknowledged.
Justice's docket and transcript evidence before him.
Transcript from justice's docket, evidence generally.
Other proof of proceedings before justice.
Ordinances, etc., of cities and villages.

§ 932. Statutes, etc., how proved. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
A statute or joint resolution, passed by the Legislature of the State, may be
read in evidence from a newspaper, designated as prescribed by law, to
publish the same, until six months after the close of the session at which it
was passed; and at any time, from a volume printed under the direction of
the Secretary of State.
§ 933. Copies of records and papers in certain offices, presumptive
evidence. [Amended by Ch. 542 ok, 1879.J A copy of a paper filed, kept,
entered, or recorded, pursuant to law, in a public office of the State, the
officer having charge of which has, pursuant to law, an official seal ; or with
the clerk of a court of the State, or with the clerk or secretary of either house
of the legislature, or of any other public body or public board created by
authority of a law of the State, and having pursuant to law, a seal ; or a
transcript from a record kept pursuant to law in such a public office or by
such a clerk or secretary, is evidence, as if the original was produced. But
to entitle it to be used in evidence, it must be certified by the clerk of the
court, under his hand and the seal of the court ; or by the officer having the
custody of the original, or his deputy or clerk, appointed pursuant to law,
under his official seal, and the hand of the person certifying ; or by the pre
siding officer, secretary or clerk of the public body or board, appointed
pursuant to law, under his hand, and except where it is certified by the
clerk or secretary of either house of the legislature, under the official seal of
the body or record.
§ 934. Id. ; of papers filed with town clerk. A copy of a paper filed,
ursuant to law, in the office of a town clerk, or a transcript from a record
ept therein, pursuant to law, certified by the town clerk, is evidence, with
like effect as the original.
§ 935. Conveyance when acknowledged, or record, or transcript of
record evidence. A conveyance, acknowledged or proved, and certified,
in the manner prescribed by law, to entitle it to be recorded in the county
where it is offered, is evidence, without further proof thereof. Except as
otherwise specially prescribed by law, the record of a conveyance, duly
recorded within the State, or a transcript thereof, duly certified, is evidence,
with like effect as the original conveyance.
§ 936. Such evidence may be rebutted. The certificate of the acknowl
edgment, or of the proof of a conveyance, or the record, or the transcript of
the record, of such a conveyance, is not conclusive ; and it may be rebutted,
and the effect thereof may be contested, by a party affected thereby. If it
appears that the proof was taken upon the oath of an interested or incompe
tent witness, the conveyance, or the record or transcript thereof, shall not be
received in evidence, until its execution is established by other competent
proof.
§ 937. What instruments may be acknowledged. Any instrument,
except a promissory note, a bill of exchange, or a last will, may be acknowl
edged or proved, and certified, in the manner prescribed by law for taking
and certifying the acknowledgment or proof of a conveyance of real prop
erty; and thereupon it is evidence, as if it was a conveyance of real
property.
§ 938. Justice's docket and transcript evidence before him The
docket-book of a justice of the peace, within the State, or a transcript
thereof, certified by him, is evidence before him, of any matter required by
law to be entered by him therein.
§ 939. Transcript from justice's docket, evidence generally. A
transcript from the docket-book of a justice of the peace, within the State, :
subscribed by him, and authenticated, by a certificate of the clerk of the
county in which the justice resides, under his hand and official seal, to the
effect that the person, subscribing the transcript was, at the date of the
judgment therein mentioned, a justice of the peace of that county ; and that
the clerk is acquainted with his handwriting, and verily believes that the
signature to the transcript is genuine ; is evidence of any matter stated in
the transcript, which is required by taw to* entered by the justice in his
docket-book.
8 940. Other proof of proceedings before justice. [Amended by Ch.
418 op 1877.] The proceedings in an action brought, or a special proceed
ing instituted, before a justice of the peace, within the State, may also be
proved by the oath of the justice. In case of his death or absence, they
may be proved by the original minutes of the proceedings kept by him,
pursuant to law, accompanied with proof of his handwriting ; or by a copy
of the minutes, sworn to by a competent witness, as having been compared
with the original entries, with proof that those entries were in the hand
writing of the justice.
§ 941. Ordinances, etc., of cities, villages, etc. [Amended by Ch. 416
OF 1877.] An act, ordinance, resolution, by-law, rule or proceeding of the
common council of a city, or of the board of trustees of an incorporated
village, or of a board of supervisors, within the State, may be read in evi
dence, either from a copy thereof, certified by the city clerk, village clerk,
clerk of the common council, or clerk of the board of supervisors ; or from
So in the original
a volume printed by authority of the common council of the city, or the board
of trustees of the village, or the board of supervisors.
ARTICLE THIRD.
Proof of a Document remaining in a Coubt or Public Office of the United States, ob
executed or remaining without the state.

Printed copies of laws of another State, etc.
Copies of records of United States courts.
Id. ; of documents on file in departments of United States.
Record of bill of sale, etc., of vessels.
Conveyance of land without the State.
Exemplification of record of conveyance of land without the State.
Transcript of docket, etc., of justice of adjoining State.
Id. j how authenticated.
Other proof.
Proof may be rebutted.
Copies of records of courts of foreign countries ; how authenticated.
Other proof.
This article does not declare effect of record, etc.
Judgments in Canada, presumptive evidence only.
Documents from foreign countries ; how authenticated.

§ 942. Printed copies of laws of another State, etc. A printed copy
of a statute, or other written law, of another State, or of a territory, or of
a foreign country, or a printed copy of a proclamation, edict, decree, or ordi
nance, by the executive power thereof, contained in a book or publication,
purporting or proved to have been published by the authority thereof, or
proved to be commonly admitted, as evidence of the existing law, in the
judicial tribunals thereof, is presumptive evidence of the statute, law,
proclamation, edict, decree, or ordinance. The unwritten or common law
of another State, or of a territory, or of a foreign country, may be proved, as
a fact, by oral evidence. The books of reports of cases, adjudged in the
courts thereof, must also be admitted, as presumptive evidence of the
unwritten or common law thereof.
§ 943. Copies ofrecords of United States courts. A copy of the record,
or any other proceeding, of a court of the United States, is evidence, when
certified by the clerk or officer, in whose custody it is required by law to be.
§ 944. Id. ; of documents on file in departments of United States.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877, and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] A copy of a record
or other paper, remaining in a department of the government of the United
States, is evidence, when certified by the head, or acting chief officer, for
the time being, of that department ; or when certified by the officer in whose
charge it is, pursuant to a statute of the United States, or otherwise in
accordance with a statute of the United States, relating to certifying the
same. The record of the observations of the weather, taken under the direc
tion of the signal service of the United States, 'when certified by the officer
in charge thereof at the place where they were taken and are kept, is pre
sumptive evidence of the matters of fact stated therein.
§ 945. Record of bill of sale, etc., of vessels. The record of a bill of
sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance of a vessel, belonging to a port
or place, within the United States, recorded in the office of the collector of
customs where the vessel is registered or enrolled, which was acknowledged
* Stricken out by Ch. tie of 1877.
or proved, before it was recorded, in like manner as a deed to be recorded
within the State ; or a transcript of such a record, duly certified by the col
lector ; is evidence, with the like effect as the original.
§ 946. Conveyanoe of land without the State. A conveyance of real
property, situated without the State, acknowledged or proved, and certified,
in like manner as a deed to be recorded within the county wherein it is
offered in evidence, is evidence, without further proof thereof, as if it related
to real property situated within the State. A conveyance of real property,
situated within another State, or a Territory of the United States, which has
been duly authenticated, according to the laws of that State or Territory, so
as to be read in evidence in the courts thereof, is evidence in like manner.
§ 947. Exemplification of record of conveyance of land without the
State. An exemplification of the record of a conveyance of real property
situated without the State, and within the United States, which has been
recorded in the State or Territory, where the real property is situated, pur
suant to the laws thereof, when certified under the hand and seal of the
officer, having the custody of the record, is, if the original cannot be pro
duced, presumptive evidence of the conveyance, and of the due execution
thereof.
§ 948. Transcript of docket, etc., of justice of adjoining State. A
transcript from the docket-book of a justice of the peace, within an adjoining
State, of a judgment rendered by him ; a transcript of his minutes of the
proceedings in the cause, previous to the judgment ; or of an execution issued
thereon ; or of the return of an execution ; when subscribed by the justice,
and authenticated as prescribed in the next section, is presumptive evidence
of his jurisdiction in the cause, and of the matters shown by the transcript.
§ 949. Id ; how authenticated Such a transcript must be authenticated
by a certificate of the justice, annexed thereto, to the effect, that it is in all
respects correct, and that he had jurisdiction of the cause ; and also by a
certificate of the clerk or prothonotary of the county, in which the justice
resided at the time of rendering the judgment, under his hand and the seal
of the court of common pleas, or other county court of the county, to the effect
that the person, subscribing the certificate attached to the transcript, was, at
the date of the judgment, a justice of the peace of that county; and that
the signature thereto is in his own handwriting.
§ 950. Other proof The judgment and other proceedings, and the jus
tice's authority to render the judgment, may also be proved, by the produc
tion of the docket, it of a copy of the judgment or other proceedings; and
the oral testimony of the justice, to the truth and correctness thereof^ and. to
his authority to render the judgment.
§ 951. Proof may be rebutted The last three sections do not prevent
the introduction of evidence to controvert any of the proof in relation to the
validity of a judgment therein specified.
§ 952. Copies of records of courts of foreign countries ; how authen
ticated. A copy of a record, or other judicial proceeding, of a court of a
foreign country, is evidence, when authenticated as follows :
1. By the attestation of the clerk of the court, with the seal of the court
affixed, or of the officer in whose custody the record is legally kept, under
the seal of his office.
2. By a certificate of the chief-judge or presiding magistrate of the court
to the effect that the person so attesting the record, is the clerk of the court ;
or that he is the officer in whose custody the record is required by law to be
kept ; and that his signature to the attestation is genuine.
3. By the certificate, under the great or principal seal of the government
under whose authority the court is held, of the Secretary of State, or other
officer having the custody of that seal, to the effect that the court is duly
constituted, specifying generally the nature of its jurisdiction ; and that the
signature of the chief-judge or presiding magistrate, to the certificate speci
fied in the last subdivision, is genuine.
§ 953. Other proof A copy of a record, or other judicial proceeding, of
a court of a foreign country, attested by the seal of the court in which it
remains, must also be admitted in evidence, upon due proof of the following
facts :
1. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness with the original,
and is an exact transcript of the whole of the original.
2. That the original was, when the copy was made, in the custody of the
clerk of the court, or other officer legally having charge of it
3. That the attestation is genuine.
§ 954. This article does not declare effect of record, etc. [Amended
by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Nothing in this articlo is to be construed as declaring
the effect of a record or other judicial proceeding of a foreign country,
authenticated so as to be evidence.
§ 955. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 956. Documents from foreign countries ; how authenticated.
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] A copy of a patent, record, or other docu
ment, remaining of record, in a public office of a foreign country, certified
according to the form in use in that country, is evidence, when authenticated
as follows :
1 . By the certificate under the hand and official seal of a commissioner,
appointed by the Governor, to take proof or acknowledgment of deeds in
that country, to the effect that the patent, record or document is of record in
the public office, and that the copy thereof is correct, and certified in due
form.
2. By a certificate under the hand and official seal of the Secretary of
State annexed to that of the commissioner, to the same effect as prescribed
by law for the authentication of the certificate of such a commissioner, upon
a conveyance to be recorded within the State. The certificate of the com
missioner, thus authenticated, is presumptive evidence that the copy of the
patent, record or document, is certified according to the form in use in the
foreign country.


Form of certificate to copies, etc.
Certificate must be sealed.
Qualification of last section.
Public or corporate seal may be stamped.
Surrogates, clerks, etc., to search files, and to certify, etc..
Saving clause.

8 957. Form of certificate to copies, etc. Where a transcript, exem
plification, or certified copy of record or other paper, is declared by law
to be evidence, and special provision is not made for the form of the certifi
cate, in the particular case, the person, authorized to certify, must state, in
his certificate, that it has been compared by him with the original, and that
it is a correct transcript therefrom, and of the whole of the original.
§ 958. Certificate must be sealed. If the officer, or the court, body, or
board, in whose custody an original paper, specified in the last section, is
required to be, by the laws of the State, or of another State, or of the United
States, or of a Territory thereof, or of a foreign country, has, pursuant to
those laws, an official seal, the certificate must be attested by that seal. If
the certificate is made by the clerk of a county, within the State, it must be
attested by the seal of the county.
§ 959. Qualification of last section. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
The last section does not require the seal of a court to be affixed to a certi
fied copy of an order, or of a paper filed therein, or entry made, where the
copy is used in the same court, or before an officer thereof ; or, in the
supreme court, where it is used in a circuit court, or a court of oyer and
terminer.
§ 960. Public or corporate seal may be stamped. [Amended by Ch.
416 of 1877.J Where a seal of a public officer, or of a corporation, is author- \V
ized or required by law, it may be impressed directly on the paper.
§ 961. Surrogates, clerks, etc., to search files and to certify, etc.
A surrogate, county clerk, register, clerk of a court, or other person, having
the custody of the records or other papers in a public office, within the
8tate, must, upon request, and upon payment of, or offer to pay, the fees
allowed by law, or if no fees are expressly allowed by law, fees at the rate
allowed to a county clerk for a similar service, diligently search the files,
papers, records, and dockets in his office ; and either make one or more
transcripts therefrom, and certify to the correctness thereof, and to the
search, or certify that a document, or paper, of which the custody legally
belongs to him, cannot be found. If he refuses, or unreasonably neglects or
delays, to make such a search, or to furnish such a transcript or certificate,
or makes a false certificate, he is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 962. Saving clause. Nothing in title fourth of this chapter prevents
the proof of a fact, act, record, proceeding, document, or other paper or
writing, according to the rules of the common law, or by any other compe
tent proof.

§ 963. Issues defined ; different kinds of issues. The issues, treated
of in this chapter, are those only which are presented by the pleadings. An
issue arises where a fact, or a conclusion of law, is maintained by one party,
and controverted by the other. Issues are of two kinds :
1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.
§ 964. When issues of law arise ; when issues of fact arise. An
issue of law arises only upon a demurrer. An issue of fact arises, in either
of the following cases :
1. Upon a denial, contained in the answer, of a material allegation of the
complaint ; or upon an allegation, contained in the answer, that the defend
ant has not sufficient knowledge or information to form a belief, with respect
to a material allegation of the complaint.
2. Upon a similar denial or allegation, contained in the reply, with respect
to a material allegation of the answer.
3. Upon a material allegation of new matter, contained in the answer, not
requiring a reply ; unless an issue of law is joined thereupon.
4. Upon a material allegation of new matter, contained in the reply ;
unless an issue of law is joined thereupon.
§ 965. Issues to be judicially examined by a trial [Amended by Ch.
542 op 1879.] An issue, either of law or of fact, must be tried as prescribed
in this chapter, unless it is disposed of as prescribed in chapter sixth of this
act.
§ 966. Issues of law and of fact in the same action. [Amended by
Ch. 416 of 1877.] Where an issue of law and an issue of fact arise in one
action, the issue of law must be first disposed of, except as otherwise pre
scribed in the next section.
§ 967. But court may direct the order, etc., of disposition of the
issues. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] A separate trial, between the
plaintifff and one or more defendants, of some or all of the issues of fact, or
one trial of some or all of the issues of law, or a change in the order of dis
position of the issues, may be directed by the court, in its discretion. Such
a direction may be given, in an order, made upon notice ; or except where
an application for such an order has been denied, it may be given, by the
judge holding the term, where those issues are regularly upon the calendar
for trial, either with or without the entry of an order.
§ 968. What issues of fact are triable by a jury. [Amended by Ch.
416 of 1877.] In each of the following actions, an issue of fact must be tried
by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference is directed :
1. An action in which the complaint demands judgment for a sum of
money only.
2. An action of ejectment ; for dower ; for waste ; for a nuisance ; or to
recover a chattel!
§ 969. What issues are triable by the court. An issue of law, in any
action, and an issue of fact, in an action not specified in the last section, or
wherein provision for a trial by a jury is not expres-ly made by law, mutt
be tried by the court, unless a reference or a jury trial is directed.
4970. Order for trial by jury, of specific questions of feet, when of
t. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1867.) Where a party is entitled, by the
Constitution, or by express provisions of law, to a trial, by a jury, of one or
more issues of fact, in an action not specified in section nine hundred and
sixty-eight of this act, he may apply, upon notice, to the court for an order,
directing all the questions, arising upon those issues, to be distinctly and
plainly stated for trial accordingly. Upon the hearing of the application,
the court must cause the issues, to the trial of which, by a jury, the party is
entitled, to be distinctly and plainly stated. The subsequent proceedings
are the same, as where questions, arising upon the issues, are stated for trial
by a jury, in a case where neither party can, as of right, require such a
trial ; except that the finding of the jury, upon each question so stated, is
conclusive in the action, unless the verdict is set aside, or a new trial is
granted.
§ 971. Id. ; when discretionary. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] In
an action, where a party is not entitled, as of right, to a trial by a jury, the
court may, in its discretion, upon the application of either party, or without
application, direct that one or more questions of fact, arising upon the issues,
be tried by a jury, and may cause those questions to be distinctly and plainly
stated for trial accordingly.
§ 972. Trial of the remainder of the issues. [Amended by Ch. 416 op
1877.] If the questions, directed to be tried by a jury, as prescribed in the
last two sections, do not embrace all the issues of fact in the action, the
remaining issues of fact must be tried by the court, or by a referee.
§ 973. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 974. Counter-claim to be deemed an action, within the foregoing
sections. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.J Where the defendant inter
poses a counterclaim, and thereupon demands an affirmative judgment
against the plaintifff, the mode of trial of an issue of fact, arising thereupon,
is the same, as if it arose in an action, brought by the defendant, against the
plaintifff, for the cause of action stated in the counterclaim, and demanding
the same judgment.
§ 975. Immaterial issues need not be tried An issue, the disposition
of which is not necessary to enable the court to render the appropriate judg
ment, is not required to be tried.
§ 976. What issues to be tried before one judge ; regulation of trial
in the supreme court. An issue of law, or an issue of fact, triable by a
jury or by the court, must be tried at a term held by one judge only, except
as otherwise prescribed in section two hundred ninety-seven of this act. In
the supreme court, an issue of fact, triable by a jnry, must be tried in the
circuit court ; and an issue of fact, triable by the court, or an issue of law,
may be tried in the circuit court, or at a special term of the supreme court,
as prescribed in the general rules of practice.
§ 977. Notice of trial and note of issue. Calendar to be prepared
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.1 At any time after the joinder of issue,
and at least fourteen days before the commencement of the term, either
party may serve a notice of trial. The party serving the notice must file
with the clerk a note of issue, stating the title of action, the names of the
attorneys, the time when the last pleading was served, the nature of the
issue, whether of fact or of law ; and if au issue of fact, whether it is triable
by a jury or by the court without a jury, the note of issue must be filed at
least twelve days before the commencement of the term. The clerk must
thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar, according to the date of the
issue. The clerk must prepare the calendar and have the necessary copies
ready for distribution at least five days before the commencement of the
term. In the city and county of New York and in the county of Kings, where
a party has served a notice of trial, and filed a note of issue for a term, at
■which the cause is not tried, it is not necessary for him to serve a new notice
of trial, or file a new note of issue for a succeeding term : and the action
must remain on the calendar until it is disposed of. [Am'd Ch. 96 op 1882.]
§ 978. Issues, how arranged. Order of disposition at a jury term[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] The issues on the calendar must be
arranged by the clerk, in the following order :
1. Issues of fact.
2. Issues of law.
Where a jury is in attendance, the issues must be disposed of in the same
order; unless, for the convenience of parties, or the dispatch of business,
the judge holding the term otherwise directs.
§ 979. Id. ; when a jury does not attend. "Where a jury is not in
attendance, issues of law have a preference over issues of fact ; unless the
judge holding the term otherwise directs.
§ 980. Either party may bring issue to trial [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877.] Either party, who has served the notice, may bring the issue to
trial ; and, in the absence of the adverse party, unless the judge holding
the term, for good cause, otherwise directs, may proceed with the cause,
and take a dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict, decision or judgment,
as the case requires. An inquest, for want of an affidavit of merits, cannot
be taken where the answer is verified.
§ 981. What papers to be furnished on trial and by whom Where
the issue is brought to trial by the plaintifff, he must furnish the court with
copies of the summons and pleadings, and of the offer, if any has been
made. Where the issue is brought to trial by the defendant, and the plain
tiff does not furnish those papers, they must be furnished by the defendant.
Certain actions to be tried, whei-e the subject thereof is situated,
Other actions, where the cause thereof arose.
Other actions, according to the residence of the parties.
Place of trial, if proper county not designated.
Defendant may demand change ; proceedings thereupon,
When court may change the place of trial.
9
Effect of changing the place of trial.
Effect of order changing place of trial.
Issues of law, where triable.
This article applicable only to the supreme court.

§ 982. Certain actions to be tried, where the subject thereof is situ
ated. Each of the following actions must be tried in the county, in which
the subject of action, or some part thereof, is situated : an action of eject
ment ; for the partition of real property ; for dower ; to foreclose a mortgage
upon real property, or upon a chattel real ; to compel the determination of
a claim to real property ; for waste ; for a nuisance ; or to procure a judg
ment, directing a conveyance of real property ; and every other action to
recover, or to procure a judgment, establishing, determining, defining, for
feiting, annulling, or otherwise affecting, an estate, right, title, lien, or
other interest, in real property, or a chattel real. But where all the real
property, to which the action relates, is situated without the State, the
action must be tried, as prescribed in section nine hundred and eighty-four
of this act.
§ 983. Other actions, where the cause thereof arose. [Amended bt
Ch. 416 op 1877.] An action for either of the following causes, must be
tried in the county, where the cause of action, or some part thereof, arose :
1. To recover a penalty or forfeiture, imposed by statute ; except that,
where the offense, for which it is imposed, was committed on a lake, river,
or other stream of water, situated in two or more counties, the action may
be tried in any county, bordering on the lake, river, or stream, and opposite
to the place where the offense was committed.
2. Against a public officer, or a person specially appointed to execute his
duties, for an act done, in virtue of his office, or for an omission to perform
a duty, incident to his office ; or against a person, who, by the command or
in the aid of a public officer, has done anything touching his duties.
3. To recover a chattel distrained, or damages for distraining a chattel.
§ 984. Other actions, according to the residence of the parties.
An action, not specified in the last two sections, must be tried in the county,
in which one of the parties resided, at the commencement thereof. If
neither of the parties then resided in the State, it may be tried in any
county, which the plaintifff designates for that purpose, in the title of the
complaint.
§ 985. Place of trial, if proper county not designated. If the county,
designated in the complaint, as the place of trial, is not the proper county,
the action may notwithstanding be tried therein ; unless the place of trial
is changed to the proper county, upon the demand of the defendant, fol
lowed by the consent of the plaintifff, or the order of the court.
§ 986. Defendant may demand change ; proceedings thereupon.
"Where the defendant demands that the action be tried in the proper county,
his attorney must serve upon the plaintifff's attorney, with the answer, or
before service of the answer, a written demand accordingly. The demand
must specify the county, where the defendant requires the action to be tried.
If the plaintifff's attorney does not serve his written consent to the change,
as proposed by the defendant, within five days after service of the demand,
the defendant's attorney may, within ten days thereafter, serve notice of a
motion to change the place of trial.
§ 987. When court may change the place of trial. The court may,
by order, change the place of trial, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is not
the proper county.
2. Where there is reason to believe, that an impartial trial cannot be had
in the proper county.
3. Where the convenience of witnesses, and the ends of justice, will be
promoted by the change.
§ 988. Effect of changing the place of trial [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877.] Where the place of trial is changed to another county, the subse
quent proceedings shall be had in the county to which the change is made,
the same as if it had been designated in the complaint, as the place of trial ;
except as otherwise directed by the court, or provided by the written con
sent of the parties, filed with the clerk. And the clerk of the county, from
which it is changed, must forthwith deliver to the clerk of the county, to
which it is changed, all papers filed in the action, and certified copies of all
minutes and entries relating thereto, which must be filed, entered, or
recorded, as the case requires, in the office of the last named clerk.
§ 989. Effect of order changing place of trial [Amended by Ch. 416
of 1877.] An order to change the place of trial takes effect, upon the entry
thereof, in the office of the clerk of the county, from which the place of trial
is changed. But for the purposes of the place of hearing, a motion to set it
aside, or an appeal therefrom, the place of trial is deemed unchanged.
§ 990. Issues of law, where triable. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.]
An issue of law may be tried in any county, within the judicial district
embracing the county wherein the action is triable; but after the trial,
the decision and all other papers relating to the trial must be filed, and
the judgment rendered must be entered, in the last named county.
§ 991. This article applicable only to the supreme court. This arti
cle is applicable to an action in the supreme court only. .
§ 993. Refusal of court or referee, to find upon facts may be
excepted to. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by a referee, or by the
court without a jury, a refusal to make any finding whatever, upon a ques
tion of fact, where a request to find thereupon is seasonably made by either
party, or a finding without any evidence tending to sustain it, is a ruling
upon a question of law, within the meaning of the last section.
§ 994. When and how exceptions may be taken, afcor close of trial
by court or referee. Where an issue of fact is tried by a referee, or by
the court, without a jury, an exception to a ruling, upon a question of law,
made after the cause is finally submitted must be taken, by filing a notice
of the exception in the clerk's office, and serving a copy thereof upon the
attorney for the adverse party. The exception may be so taken, at any
time before the expiration of ten days after service, upon the attorney for
the exceptant, of a copy of the decision of the court, or report of the referee,
and a written notice of the entry of judgment thereupon. If the notice
of exception is filed before the entry of final judgment, it must be inserted
in the judgment-roll; if afterwards, it must be annexed to the judgmentroll. In either case, it constitutes a part of the papers, upon which an
appeal from the judgment must be heard.
§ 995. Id. ; during the trial, or upon trial by jury. In any other case,
an exception must be taken, at the time when the ruling is made, unless it
is taken to the charge given to the jury ; in which case, it must be taken
before the jury have rendered their verdict. It must, at the time when it
is taken, be reduced to writing by the exceptant, or entered in the minutes.
§ 996. Ruling excepted to ; how reviewed. A ruling, to which an
exception is taken, as prescribed in the last four sections, can be reviewed
only upon an appeal from the judgment, rendered after the trial ; except in
a case, where it is expressly prescribed by law, that a motion for a new
trial may be made thereupon.
§ 997. Case, when necessary ; how made and settled [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where a party intends to appeal from a judgment,
rendered after the trial of an issue of fact, or to move for a new trial of such
an issue, he must, except as otherwise prescribed by law, make a case, and
procure the same to be settled and signed, by the judge or the referee, by
or before whom the action was tried, as prescribed in the general rules of
practice; or, in case of the death or disability of the judge or referee, in
such manner as the court directs. The case must contain so much of the
evidence, and other proceedings upon the trial, as is material to the ques
tions to be raised thereby, and also the exceptions taken by the party
making the case. If it afterwards becomes necessary to separate the excep
tions, the separation may be made, and the exceptions may be stated, with
so much of the evidence and other proceedings, as is material to the ques
tions raised by them, in a case, prepared and settled, as directed in the
general rules of practice ; or, in the absence of directions therein, by the
court, upon motion. It is not necessary to state, in a case, that a finding
upon the facts, or a ruling upon the law, was made, where the finding or
ruling appears in a referee's report, or in the decision of the court, upon a
trial by the court, without a jury.
§ 998. When appeal, etc., may be heard without a case. It is not
necessary to make a case, for the purpose of moving for a new trial, upon
the minutes of the judge, who presided at the trial by a jury ; or upon an
allegation of irregularity, or surprise ; or where a party intends to appeal
from a judgment entered upon a referee's report, or a decision of the court
upon a trial, without a jury, and to rely only upon exceptions, taken as pre
scribed in section nine hundred and ninety-four of this act.
t999. Motion for new trial upon judge's minutes; appeal from
er thereupon. The judge, presiding at a trial by a jury, may, in his
discretion, entertain a motion, made upon his minutes, at the same term, to
set aside the verdict and grant a new trial, upon exceptions ; or because the
verdict is for excessive or insufficient damages ; or otherwise contrary to the
evidence, or contrary to law. If an appeal is taken from the order, made
upon the motion, it must be heard, upon a case, prepared and settled in the
usual manner.
§ 1000. When and how exceptions, taken upon a jury trial, heard
at general term. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Upon the application
of a party who has taken one or more exceptions, the judge, presiding at a
trial by a jury, may, in his discretion, at any time during the same term,
direct an order to be entered, that the exceptions so taken be heard, in the
first instance, at the general term; and that judgment be suspended, in the
meantime. At any time before the hearing of the exceptions, the order may
be revoked or modified, upon notice, in court or out of court, by the judge
who made it ; or it may be set aside for irregularity, by the court, set any
term thereof. Unless it is so revoked or 6et aside, the exceptions must be
heard upon a motion for a new trial, which must be decided by the general
term. The motion is deemed to have been made when the order was granted ;
and either party may notice it for hearing at the general term, upon the
exceptions. [Am'd Ch. 29 op 1882.]
§ 1001. Motion for new trial at general term, when trial was by
court or referee. Where the decision or report, rendered upon the trial of
an issue of fact by the court, without a jury, or by a referee, directs an
interlocutory judgment to be entered; and further proceedings must be
taken, before the court, or a judge thereof, or a referee, before a final judg
ment can be entered, a motion for a new trial, upon one or more exceptions,
may be made at the general term, after the entry of the interlocutory judg
ment, and before the commencement of the hearing directed therein. The
time within which the party must except, for that purpose, to a ruling of
law, made, upon such a trial, by the judge or the referee, after the close of
the testimony, is ten days after service of a copy of the decision or report,
and notice of the entry of the interlocutory judgment thereupon.
§ 1002. When motion for new trial to be made at special term
Restrictions thereupon In a case, not specified in the last three sections,
a motion for a new trial must, in the first instance, be heard and decided at
the special term. But where it is founded upon an allegation of error, in a
finding of fact, or ruling upon the law, made by the judge upon the trial, it
cannot be heard at a special term, held by another judge ; unless the judge,
who presided at the trial, is dead, or his term of office has expired, or he
specially directs the motion to be heard before another judge. And a trial by
a referee cannot be reviewed, by a motion for a new trial, founded upon such
an allegation, except in a case specified in the last section.
§ 1003. Application of this article to trials of specific questions by
jury; special provisions applicable thereto. The provisions of this
article, relating to the proceedings to review a trial by a jury, are applicable
to the trial, by a jury, of one or more specific questions of fact, arising upon
the issues, in an action triable by the court. But, except in a case specified
in section nine hundred seventy of this act, a new trial may be granted, as
to some of the questions so tried, and refused as to the others ; and an error,
in the admission or exclusion of evidence, or in any other ruling or direction
of the judge, upon the trial, may, in the discretion of the court which reviews
it, be disregarded, if that court is of opinion, that substantial justice does
not require that a new trial should be granted. Where the judge, who pre
sided at the trial, neither entertains a motion for a new trial, nor directs
exceptions, taken at the trial, to be heard at the general term, a motion for
a new trial can be made only at the term, where the motion for final judg
ment is made, or the remaining issues of fact are tried, as the case requires.
§ 1004. Motion for new hearing, after trial of specific questions by
a. referee. In an action triable by the court, where a reference has been
made, to report upon one or more specific questions of fact, involved in the
issue, a motion for a new hearing hiay De maae at a special term, at any
time before the hearing of a motion for final judgment, or the trial of the
remaining issues of fact. The motion must be made upon affidavits, unless
the court, or a judge thereof, directs a case to be prepared and settled.
§ 1005. Final judgment, etc., not stayed by motion for a new trial.
Motion may be heard afterwards. The entry of final judgment, and the
subsequent proceedings to collect or otherwise enforce it, are not stayed by
an exception, the preparation or settlement of a case, or a motion for a new
trial, unless an order for such a stay is procured and served ; and the entry,
collection, or other enforcement of a judgment does not prejudice a subse
quent motion for a new trial. Where a new trial is granted, the court may
direct and enforce restitution, as where a judgment is reversed upon appeal.
§ 1006. When exception not to prejudice motion for new trial. The
taking of an exception, upon a trial by a jury, or the statement thereof in a
case, as prescribed in this article, does not prejudice a motion for a new trial,
on the ground that the verdict was contrary to evidence ; but such a motion
may be made, before or after the hearing of the exception ; or, in the discre
tion of the court before which the exception is heard, at the time of the
hearing.
§ 1007. Notes of stenographer may be treated as minutes of the
judge. The notes of an official stenographer or assistant-stenographer, taken
at a trial, when written out at length may be treated, in the discretion of
the judge, as minutes of the judge upon the trial for the purposes of this
article. When by provision of law a justice of the supreme court of this
State, by his order, in writing, duly entered in a county clerk's office in the judicial
district of said justice apportions the stenographer's salary among the several coun
ties of said judicial district, or requires the duplication of any stenographic notes
taken in said judicial district, no notice of the application for said order shall be
adjudged necessary upon any board of supervisors in said judicial district. \Am'd

If trial by jury waived, action must be tried by the court.
Trial by jury ; how waived.
Decision upon trial by the court, when to be filed ; consequence of failure.
Reference by consent ; when and how made.
Qualification of the last section.
Compulsory reference for the trial of issues ; in what cases it may be made.
Proceedings where the reference is for trial of part of the issues.
Compulsoi-y reference upon questions incidentally arising.
Referee to be sworn.
W.tnesses may be subpoenaed.
General powers of a referee upon a trial.
Referee's report ; when to be made, consequence of failure.
Double or other increased damages.
Decision of court or report of referee, upon trial of demurrer.
Id. ; upon trial of the whole issue of faet.
Parties may require court or referee to determine particular questions.
Qualifications of a referee.
Several referees may be appointed.
Proceedings regulated where there are several referees.

§ 1008. If trial by jury waived, action must be tried by the court.
[Amended by Ch. 41b' op 1877.] In an action triable by a jury, if the parties
waive the trial, by a jury, of the issue of fact, the action must be tried by the
court, without a jury; unless a reference is directed, in a case prescribed by
law. But such an action, other than to recover damages for breach of a con198
tract, cannot be tried by the court, without a jury, unless the judge, presid
ing at the term where it is brought on for trial, assents to such a trial. His
refusal so to assent annuls a waiver, made as prescribed in subdivision
second, third, or fourth of the next section.
; 1009. Trial by jury ; how waived. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
A party may waive his right to the trial of the issue of fact, by a jury, in
any of the following modes :
1. By failing to appear at the trial.2. By filing with the clerk a written waiver, signed by the attorney for
the party.
3. By an oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
4. By moving the trial of the action, without a jury ; or, if the adverse
party so moves it, by failing to claim a trial by a jury, before the production
of any evidence upon the trial.
§ 1010. Decision upon trial by the court, when to be filed. ; conse
quence of failure. Upon a trial, by the court, of an issue of fact or of law,
its decision, in writing, must be filed in the clerk's office, within twenty days
after the final adjournment of the term, where the issue was tried. If it is
not so filed, either party may move, at a special term, for a new trial upon
that ground. If the decision has not been filed, when the motion is heard,
the court must make an order for a new trial, either absolutely, or unless it
is filed, within a time specified in the order. If an order for a new trial is
made, or a contingent order for a new trial becomes absolute, the costs of the
former trial abide the event.
§1011. Reference by consent , when and how made. [Amended bt
Ch. 542 op 1879.] Except in a case specified in the next section, the whole
issue, or any of the issues in an action, either of fact or of law, must be
referred, upon the consent of the parties, manifested by a written stipula
tion, signed by their attorneys, and filed with the clerk. Where the stipu
lation does not name the referee, he may be designated by the court, on
motion of either party. Where the stipulation names the referee, the clerk
must enter an order, of course, referring the issue or issues for trial, to
that person only. If the referee named in a stipulation refuses to serve, or
if a new trial of an action tried by a referee so named is granted, the court
must appoint another referee, unless the stipulation expressly provides
otherwise.
§ 1012. Qualification of the last section But a reference shall not be
made, of course, upon the consent of the parties, in an action to annul a mar
riage, or for a divorce or a separation ; or an action against a corporation, to
obtain a dissolution thereof, the appointment of a receiver of its property,
or the distribution of its property, unless it is brought by the AttorneyGeneral ; or an action wherein a defendant, to be affected by the result of
the trial, is an infant. In a case specified in this section where the parties
consent to a reference, the court may, in its discretion, grant or refuse a refer
ence ; and, where a reference is granted, the court must designate the referee.
§ 1013. Compulsory reference for the trial of issues ; in what cases
it may be made. The court may, of its own motion, or upon the applica
tion of either party, without the consent of the other, direct a trial of the
issues of fact, by a referee, where the trial will require the examination of a
long account, on either side, and will not require the decision of difficult
questions of law. In an action, triable by the court, without a jury, a refer
ence may be made, as prescribed in this section, to decide the whole issue,
or any of the issues ; or to report the referee's finding, upon one or more
specific questions of fact, involved in the issue.
§ 1014. Proceedings where the reference is for trial of part of the
issues. Where a reference is made, as prescribed in the last section
to report upon a specific question of fact, involved in the issue, and the
determination of one or more other issues is necessary, in order to
enable the court to render judgment, they must be tried, either before or
after the filing of the report, as the court directs, and either by a jury, or
by the court without a jury, as the case requires. Where they are tried by
a jury, application for a judgment must be made upon the verdict and the
report.
§ 1015. Compulsory reference upon questions incidentally arising.
The court may likewise, of its own motion, or upon the application of either
party, without the consent of the other, direct a reference to take an account,
and report to the court thereon, either with or without the testimony, after
interlocutory or final judgment, or where it is necessary to do so, for the
information of the court ; and also to determine and report upon a question
of fact, arising in any stage of the action, upon a motion or otherwise, except
upon the pleadings.
§ 1016. Referee to be sworn. A referee, appointed as prescribed in
either of the foregoing sections of this title, must, before proceeding to hear
the testimony, be sworn faithfully and fairly to try the issues, or to deter
mine the questions referred to him, as the case requires, and to make a just
and true report, according to the best of his understanding. The oath may
be administered by an officer specified in section eight hundred and fortytwo of this act. But where all the parties, whose interests will be affected
by the result, are of age, and present, in person or by attorney, they may
expressly waive the referee's oath. The waiver may be made by written
stipulation, or orally. If it is oral, it must be entered in the referee's
minutes.
§ 1017. Witnesses may be subpoenaed. A witness may be subpoenaed
to attend before a referee, appointed as prescribed in either of the foregoing
sections of this title, to testify, and, in a proper case, to bring with him a
book, document, or other paper, as upon a trial by the court.
§ 1018. General powers of a referee, upon a trial. The trial, by a
referee, of an issue of fact, or of an issue of law, must be brought on upon like
notice, and conducted in like manner, and the papers to be furnished there
upon are the same, and are furnished in like manner, as where the trial is
by the court, without a jury. The referee exercises, upon such a trial, the
same power as the court, to grant adjournments, to preserve order, aud pun
ish the violation thereof. Upon the trial of an issue of fact, the referee
exercises also the same power as the court, to allow amendments to the sum
mons, or to the pleadings ; to compel the attendance of a witness by attach
ment ; aud to punish a witness for a contempt of court, for non-attendance,
or refusal to be sworn, or to testify. Upon the trial of an issue of law, the
referee exercises the same power as the court, to permit a party in fault to
plead anew or amend ; to direct the action to be divided into two or more
actions ; to award costs, and otherwise to dispose of any question, arising
upon the decision of the issue referred to him. The powers conferred by
this section, are exercised in like manner, and upon like terms, as similar
powers are exercised by the court, upon a trial.
§ 1019. Referee's report ; when to be made ; consequence of failure.
Upon the trial, by a referee, of an issue of fact, or an issue of law, or where a reference is made as prescribed in section 1015 of this act, the referee's written
report must be either filed with the clerk, or delivered to the attorney for
one of the parties, within sixty days from the time when the cause or matter
is finally submitted ; otherwise either party may, before it is filed or deliv
ered, serve a notice, upon the attorney for the adverse party, that he elects
to end the reference. In such a case, the action must thenceforth proceed,
as if the reference had not been directed ; and the referee is not entitled
to any fees. [Am'd Ch. 397 op 1882.]
[§ 2 of Ch. 397 of 1882. This act shall take effect immediately. But the
amendment made by this act to section one thousand and nineteen shall not apply
to a reference made before this act takes effect ; nor shall any amendment, made by
this act, invalidate or impair the effect of any proceedings heretofoi-e taken.]
§ 1020. Double or other increased damages. Where the double, treble,
or other increased damages, are given by statute, the decision of the court,
or the report of the referee, must specify the sum awarded as single dam
ages, and direct judgment for the increased damages.
§ 1021. Decision of court or report cf referee, upon trial of demur
rer. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.J The decision of the court, or the
report of a referee, upon the trial of a demurrer, must direct the final or
interlocutory judgment to be entered thereupon. Where it directs an inter
locutory judgment, with leave to the party in fault to plead anew or amend,
or permitting the action to be divided into two or more actions, and no other
issue remains to be disposed of, it may also direct the final judgment to be
entered if the party in fault fails to comply with any of the directions given
or terms imposed.
§ 1022. Id. ; upon trial of the whole issue of fact. [Amended by Ch.
416 op 1877.] The decision of the court, or the report of the referee, upon
the trial of the whole issue of fact, must state separately the facts found,
and the conclusions of law ; and it must direct the judgment, to be entered
thereupon. In an action, where the costs are in the discretion of the court,
the decision or report must award or deny costs ; and, if it awards costs, it
must designate the party to whom costs, to be taxed, are awarded.
§ 1023. Parties may require court or referee to determine particular
questions. Before the cause is finally submitted to the court or the referee,
or within such time afterwards, and before the decision or report is rendered,
as the court or referee allows, the attorney for either party may submit, in
writing, a statement of the facts, which he deems established by the evi
dence, and of the rulings upon questions of law, which he desires the court or
the referee to make. The statement must be in the form of distinct propo
sitions of law, or of fact, or both, separately stated ; each of which must be
numbered, and so prepared, with respect to its length, and the subject and
phraseology thereof, that the court or referee may conveniently pass upon
it. At or before the time, when the decision or report is rendered, the court
or the referee must note, in the margin of the statement, the manner in
which each proposition has been disposed of, and must either file, or return
to the attorney, the statement thus noted ; but an omission so to do does not
affect the validity of the decision or report.
§ 1024. Qualifications of a referee. A referee appointed by the court
must be free from all just objections ; and no person shall be so appointed,
to whom all the parties object, except in an action to annul a marriage, or
for a divorce, or a separation. A judge cannot be appointed a referee, in
an action brought in the court, of which he is a judge, except by the written
consent of the parties ; and, in that case, he cannot receive any compensa
tion as referee.
§ 1025. Several referees may be appointed. Where the court is
authorized to appoint a referee, it may, in its discretion, appoint either one
or three. And where a reference is made by consent of the parties, they
may select any number of referees, not exceeding five.
§ 1026. Proceedings regulated where there are several referees.
Where the reference is to more than one referee, all must meet together, and
hear all the allegations and proofs of the parties; but a majority may
appoint a time and place for the trial, decide any question which arises upon
the trial, sign a report, or settle a case. Either of them may administer an
oath to a witness ; and a majority of those present, at a time and place
appointed for the trial, may adjourn the trial to a future day.
TITLE III.
Trial jurors, except in New York and Kings counties ; mode of selecting them, and
of procuring their attendance.
Abticlb 1 . Qualifications and exemptions of trial jurors.
2. Mode of selecting, drawing, and procuring the attendance of trial jurors, in
ordinary cases.
3. Mode of striking and procuring a special jury, and of procuring a foreign jury.
4. Penalties for non-attendance.

Qualifications of trial jurors.
Additional provision respecting property qualifications.
Certain public officers disqualified.
Persons entitled to claim exemption from service.
Evidence of exemption in certain cases.

1033. When juror to be excused fi-om serving.
1034. Application of this article, as respects New York and Kings counties.
§ 1027. Qualifications of trial jurors. In order to be qualified to serve,
as a trial juror, in a court of record, a person must be :
1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of the county.
2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than sixty years of age.
3. Assessed, for personal property, belonging to him, in his own right, to
the amount of two hundred and fifty dollars ; or the owner of a freehold
estate in real property, situated in the county, belouging to him in his own
right, of the value of one hundred and fifty dollars ; or the husband of a
woman who is the owner of a like freehold estate, belonging to her, in her
own right.
4. In the possession of his natural faculties, and not infirm or decrepit.
5. Free from all legal exceptions ; of fair character ; of approved integ
rity ; of sound judgment ; and well informed.
§ 1028. Additional provision respecting property qualification. But
a person who was assessed, on the last assessment-roll of the town, for land
in his possession, held under a contract for the purchase thereof, upon which
improvements, owned by him, have been made, to the value of one hundred
and fifty dollars, is qualified to serve as a trial juror, although he does not
possess either of the qualifications, specified in subdivision third of the last
section, if he is qualified in every other respect.
§ 1029. Certain public officers disqualified. Each of the following
officers is disqualified to serve as a trial juror :
1. The Governor ; the Lieutenant-Governor ; the Governor's private
secretary.
2. The Secretary of State; the Comptroller; the State Treasurer; the
Attorney-General; the State Engineer and Surveyor; a Canal Commis
sioner ; an Inspector of State Prisons ; a Canal Appraiser ; the Superintend
ent of Public Instruction ; the Superintendent of the Bank Department ; the
Superintendent of the Insurance Department ; and the deputy of each officer,
Bpecified in this subdivision.
3. A member of the Legislature, during the session of the house, of which
he is a member.
4. A judge of a court of record, or a surrogate.
5. A sheriff, under-sheriff, or deputy-sheriff.
6. The clerk or deputy-clerk of a court of record.
§ 1030. Persons entitled to claim exemption from service. [Amended
by Ch. 542 op 1879.] Each of the following persons, although qualified, is
entitled to exemption from service, as a trial juror, upon his claiming exemp
tion therefrom :
1. A clergyman, or a minister of any religion, officiating as such, and not
following any other calling.
2. A resident officer of, or an attendant, assistant, teacher, or other person,
actually employed in a State asylum for lunatics, idiots, or habitual drunk
ards.
3. The agent or warden of a State prison ; the keeper of a county jail ; or
a person actually employed in a State prson or county jail.
4. A practicing physician or surgeon, having patients requiring his daily
professional attention.
5. An attorney or counsellor at law regularly engaged in the practice of
the law, as a means of livelihood.
6. A professor or teacher, in a college or academy.
7. A person actually employed in a glass, cotton, linen, woollen, or iron
manufacturing company, by the year, month, or season.
8. A superintendent, engineer, or collector, on a canal, authorized by the
laws of the State, which is actually constructed and navigated.
9. A master, engineer, assistant-engineer, or fireman, actually employed
upon a steam-vessel, making regular trips.
10. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed by a railroad
comp my, other than a street railroad company ; or an operator, or assistantoperator, employed by a telegraph company ; who is actually doing duty in
an office, or along the railroad or telegraph line of the company, by which
he is employed.
11. An officer, non-commissioned officer, musician, or private of the
national guard of the State, performing military duty ; or a person, who has
been honorably discharged from the national guard, after five years' service,
in either capacity.
12. A person who has been honorably discharged from the military forces
of the State, after seven years' faithful service therein. But in order to
entitle a person to exemption, under this subdivision, his service must have
been performed before the twenty-third day of April, eighteen hundred and
sixty-two, either as a general or staff-officer, or as an officer, non-commis
sioned officer, musician, or private, in a uniformed battalion, company, or
troop of the militia of the State, and armed, uniformed, and equipped,
according to law; or a portion thereof, during that period and in that capacity, and the remainder, since the twenty-third day of April, eighteen
hundred and sixty-two, as a member of the national guard of the State.
13. A member of a fire company, or fire department, duly organized
according to the laws of the State, and performing his duties therein ; or a
person who, after faithfully serving five successive years in such a fire com
pany, or fire department, has been honorably discharged therefrom.
14. A duly licensed engineer of steam boilers, actually employed as such.
15. A person otherwise specially exempted by law. [Am'd Ch. 400 of
1883.]
§ 1031. Evidence of exemption in certain cases. The evidence of the
right to exemption, as prescribed in the last section, is as follows :
1. Under subdivision second thereof, the certificate of the superintendent,
or other principal officer of the asylum.
2. Under subdivision third thereof, the certificate of the warden, or other
principal officer of the State prison, or the sheriff of the county, as the case
requires.
3. Under subdivision eleventh thereof, where the applicant is a non
commissioned officer, musician, or private, in a company or troop of the
national guard, the certificate of the commanding officer of the company or
troop, accompanied with proof, by affidavit, of the genuineness of the signa
ture thereto.
4. Under the last clause of subdivision eleventh, or under subdivision
twelfth thereof, in the discretion of the court, the discharge of the person
from military service, if it shows the facts entitling him to exemption.
5. Under the first clause of subdivision thirteenth thereof, where the
applicant is under the rank of foreman, the certificate of the foreman,
or other chief officer, of the company, to which the applicant belongs,
accompanied with proof, by affidavit, of the genuineness of the signature
thereto.
6. Under the last clause of subdivision thirteenth thereof, the certificate
of the chief engineer of the fire department of the city or village,' where
the service was performed, or of the mayor or president of the city or
village.
A certificate, specified in this section, must be dated within three months
before the time of presenting it, and filed with the clerk of the court, to
which it is presented.
§ 1032. When juror to be discharged from serving. The court must
discharge a person from serving as a trial juror, in either of the following
cases:
1. Where it satisfactorily appears that he is not qualified.
2. Where it satisfactorily appears that he is exempt, and he claims the
benefit of the exemption.
Where a person is discharged, for either of the causes specified in this
section, the clerk must destroy the ballot, containing his name.
§ 1033. When juror to be excused from serving. Upon satisfactory
proof of the facts, a court, at the term to which a person is returned as a
trial juror, must excuse him from serving during the whole, or a portion of
the term, in either of the following cases :
1. Where he is a justice of the peace, or executes any other civil office,
the duties of which are, at the time, inconsistent with his attendance as a
juror.
2. Where he is a teacher in a school, actually employed and serving as
such.
3. Where, for any other reason, the interests of the public, or of the
juror, will be materially injured by his attendance ; or his own health, or
the health of a member of his family, requires his absence ; or he is tempo
rarily incapacitated, for any reason, from properly discharging the duties of
a juror.
Where a person is excused, in either of the cases specified in this section,
the ballot, containing his name, must be returned to the box from which it
was taken.
§ 1034. Application of this article, as respects New York and
Kings counties. Section ten hundred and twenty-nine of this act applies
throughout the State. The remainder of this article does not apply to the
city and county of New York, or the county of Kings.
ARTICLE SECOND.
mods of selecting, drawing and procuring thb attendance of trial jurors, in
ordinary Cases.

Certain town officers to make lists of trial jurors.
Names of jurors to be taken from assessment-roll.
Duplicate jury list to be made and filed.
County clerk to make and deposit ballots.
County clerk to destroy old ballots.
Jurors so returned to serve for three years.
Wards of certain cities to be considered towns ; rule in other cities.
When and how many jurors, for courts of record, to be drawn.
Notice of drawing.
Sheriff and county judge to attend drawing.
Sheriff or county judge, not appearing, to be again notified, etc.
Certain office™ required to be present at drawing.
Mode of drawing jurors ; minute of drawing ; list to be delivered to sheriff.
Sheriff to notify jurors and make return.
Applicants to be furnished with copies of jury lists.
Names of jurors who have served, to be kept in separate box.
Jurors to be drawn from that box, when first box is exhausted.
A third jury box to be kept.
When old ballots therein to be destroyed, and new ballots deposited.
Jurors, when to be drawn from third box,
How such jurors to be notified.
Justice of supreme court, or county judge, may order drawing of additional
jurors.
Proceedings upon such order.
For what courts, and by whom, additional furors may be ordered.
How such additional jurors drawn and notified.
Power of county judge, as to attendance of jurors.
Powers of deputy county clerk, under this article.
This article not applicable to New York and Kings counties.

§ 1035. Certain town officers to make lists of trial jurors. The
supervisor, town clerk and assessors of each town, must meet on the first
Monday of July, in the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-eight,
and in each third year thereafter, at a place within the town, appointed by
the supervisor ; or, in case of his absence, or of a vacancy in his office, by
the town clerk ; for the purpose of making a list of persons to serve as trial
jurors for the then ensuing three years. If they fail to meet on the day
specified in this section, they must meet as soon thereafter as practicable.
§ 1036. Names of jurors to be taken from assessment-roll. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] At the meeting specified in the last section, the officers
present must select from the last assessment-roll of the town, and make a list
of the names of all persons whom they believe to be qualified to serve aa
trial jurors, as prescribed in the last article.
§ 1037. Duplicate jury lists to be made and filed. Duplicate lists of
the names of the persons so selected, showing the place of residence, and
other proper additions, of each of them, as iar as those particulars can be
conveniently ascertained, must be made out and signed by the officers, or a
majority of them. Within ten days after the meeting, one of the lists must
be transmitted by those officers to the county clerk, and filed by liim ; and
the other must be filed with the town clerk.
§ 1038. County clerk to make and deposit ballots. On the first
Monday of August, after the lists have been transmitted to him, the county
clerk must prepare suitable ballots, by writing the name of each person
thus selected, as contained in the lists, with his place of residence, and other
additions on a separate piece of paper. The ballots must be uniform, as
nearly as may be, in appearance ; and the clerk must deposit them in the
box, kept for that purpose.
§ 1039. County clerk to destroy old ballots. [Amended by Ch. 108
of 1880.] Before depositing the ballots, the county clerk must destroy each
ballot, remaining in either of the boxes kept by him, and containing the
name of a resident of a town, for which a new list has been transmitted. If,
for any reason, the list from a town is not received by the county clerk, by
the first Monday of August, he shall give immediate notice thereof to the
town clerk, and it must be transmitted as soon thereafter as practicable ; and
if after the same is received by the county clerk it has been or shall be lost
or destroyed, he must forthwith give notice thereof to the town clerk, and a
copy of the duplicate list on file in the town clerk's office, certified by him
to be correct, or if that duplicate is also lost or destroyed or cannot be found,
a new list to be made forthwith as prescribed for making the original list,
must be transmitted to the county clerk as soon thereafter as practicable ;
and the county clerk must prepare new ballots, and destroy the old ballots,
containing the names of residents of that town immediately after the receipt
by him ot the list therefrom.
§ 1040. Jurors so returned to serve for three years. Each person,
whose name is contained in a list, so transmitted, must, unless he is excused
or discharged, serve, as a trial juror, for three years from the first Monday
of August of that year, and thereafter until another list from his town, is
received and filed.
§ 1041. Wards of certain cities to be considered towns. Rule in
other cities. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Each ward of the city of
Utica is considered a town for the purposes of this article ; and the super
visor and assessor of that ward must execute the duties of the supervisor,
town clerk and assessors of a town, as prescribed in the foregoing sections of
this article ; except that a duplicate of the list of jurors made by them
must be filed in the office of the clerk of the city. In the city of Albany the
recorder of said city shall perform the duties imposed by this title upon the super
visor, town clerk and assessors of towns. In Albany county, grand jurors shall
hereafter be drawn from the box containing the names of petit jurors selected
for said county in the same manner as petit jurors, and hereafter no separate list
of grand jurors shall be prepared for said county. In each of the other cities
of the state the like duties must be performed by the officers, and in the
manner prescribed by law. A city, wherein two or more assessors are
elected for the entire city, is considered a town for the purposes of this article,
except where the officers who are to perform the duties of the supervisor,
town clerk or assessor, as prescribed in this article, are specially designated
by law. [Am'd Ch. 532 of 1881.]
§ 1042. When and how manyjurors, for courts of record to be drawn.
On a day, designated by the county clerk, not less than fourteen, nor more
than twenty days, before the day appointed for holding each term of the
circuit court ; or of the court of oyer and terminer, where a circuit court is
not appointed to be held at the same time ; or of the county court, except a
term designated for the hearing and decision of motions, and trial and other
proceedings, without a jury; or of the court of sessions, where a term of the
county court is not appointed to be held at the same time ; or of a mayor's or
recorder's court at which issues are triable by a jury ; or on the day to which
the drawing is adjourned, as prescribed in section 1045 of this act, the clerk
of the county, in which the term is to be held, must draw the names of
thirty-six persons, and any additional number, ordered according to law, to
serve as trial jurors at the term.
§ 1043. Notice of drawing. At least six days before the drawing, the
county clerk must publish a notice thereof, in a newspaper published in the
county, if there is one ; or, if there is none, he must affix a notice thereof,
on the outer door of the building, where the term, for which the jurors are
to be drawn, is appointed to be held. He must, also, at least three days
before the time appointed for the drawing, cause notice thereof to be served
upon the sheriff of the county, and upon the county judge, or, in case of his
special
special county judge, upon a justice of sessions.
§ 1044. Sheriff and county judge to attend drawing. At the time so
appointed, the sheriff of the county, or his under-sheriff, and the county
judge, or if notice has been served upon another officer, in the absence of
the latter, as prescribed in the last section, either the county judge, or that
officer, or both, must attend at the clerk's office of the county, to witness the
drawing of the jurors.
§ 1045. Sheriff or county judge not appearing, to be again notified,
etc. If the sheriff or under-sheriff, and either the county judge, or, in a
case specified in the last section, an officer in place of the county judge, do
not appear, the clerk must adjourn the drawing of the jurors to the next
day. Thereupon, the clerk must forthwith cause to be served u; on the
absent sheriff or county judge, or two or more justices of the peace of the
county, notice to attend the drawing on the adjourned day.
§ 1046. Certain officers required to be present at drawing. If the
sheriff or under-sheriff, and the county judge, or if the sheriff, under-sheriff,
or county judge, together with two justices of the peace of the county, ap
pear at the adjourned day, but not otherwise, the clerk must proceed, in the
presence of the officers so appearing, to draw the jurors.
8 1047. Mode of drawing jurors ; minute of drawing ; list to be
delivered to sheriff The drawing must be conducted as follows :
1. The clerk must shake the box containing the ballots, so as thoroughly
to mix them.
2. He must then, without seeing the name contained in any ballot, pub
licly draw out of the box one ballot ; and continue to draw, in like manner,
one ballot at a time, until the requisite number has been drawn.
3. A minute of the drawing must be kept, by one of the attending officers,
in which must be entered the name contained in each ballot drawn, before
another ballot is drawn.
4. If, after drawing the requisite number, the name of a person has been
drawn, who is dead, or insane, or who has permanently removed from the
county, to the knowledge of an attending officer, an entry of that fact must
be made in the minute of the drawing, and the ballot, containing that per
son's name, must be destroyed. Whereupon, another ballot must be drawn,
in its place, and the name contained therein must be entered, in like man
ner, in the minute of the drawing.
5. The same proceedings must be had, as often as necessary, until the
requisite pumber of jurors has been obtained.
6. The minute of the drawing must then be signed by the clerk, and the
other attending officers, and filed in the clerk's office.
7. A list of the names of the persons so drawn, showing the place of resi
dence, and other proper additions, of each of them, and specifying for what
court and term they were drawn, must be made and certified by the clerk,
and the other attending officers, and delivered to the sheriff of the county.
5i 1048. Sheriff to notify jurors and make return. The sheriff must,
east six days before the day appointed for holding the term, serve, upon
each person named in the list, personally, or by leaving it at his residence,
with a person of proper age and discretion, a written notice to attend the
term. He must file the list with the clerk of the court, at or before the
opening of the term ; with a return, indorsed thereupon, or annexed thereto,
under his hand, naming each person notified, and specifying the manner in
which he was notified.
§ 1049. Applicants to be furnished with copies of jury lists. The
county clerk, or the sheriff, must furnish a copy of the list of trial jurors,
drawn to attend a term, to any person applying to him therefore, and paying
the fees allowed by law.
§ 1050. Names of jurors who have served to be kept in separate
box. After the adjournment of the term, at which trial jurors have been
returned, as prescribed in the last section but one, the clerk must deposit
the ballots, containing the names of those who attended and served, in
another box, kept by him. The ballots, containing the names of those who
did not appear and serve, which have not been destroyed, as prescribed in
article first of this title, must be returned to the box from which they were
taken.
§ 1051. Jurors to be drawn from that box, when first box is
exhausted. If, at the time of drawing trial jurors for a term, there is not
a sufficient number of ballots remaining in the first box, the clerk, after
drawing all the ballots therein, must draw the necessary number from the
second box, containing the names of those jurors who have before served, as
prescribed in the last section; and must continue to draw from that box,
until new lists of jurors are transmitted by the town officers.
§ 1052. A third jury box to be kept The county clerk must keep, in
addition to the two boxes specified in the last two sections, a third box, in
which he must deposit duplicate ballots, containing the names, with the
proper additions, of all persons, selected and returned as trial jurors, who
reside in the city or town, where a trial term of a court of record is appointed
to be held, pursuant to law.
§ 1053. When old ballots therein to be destroyed and new ballots
deposited The ballots, kept in the third box, must be destroyed by the
clerk, and new ballots must be deposited therein by him, at the same time,
and under like circumstances, as prescribed in this article, with respect to
the destruction of the old ballots, and the depositing of new ballots, in the
first box.
§ 1054. Jurors, when to be drawn from third box If a sufficient
number of trial jurors, duly drawn and notified, do not attend or cannot be
obtained, to form a jury, the. court may, in its discretion, direct the sheriff
to draw from the third box, in the presence of the court, the names of as
many persons as the court deems sufficient for that purpose.
§ 1055. How such juror to be notified. The sheriff must forthwith
notify each person so drawn, and make a return, as prescribed in title fifth
of this chapter, where talesmen are required to attend ; and the provisions
of that title apply to each person so notified.
§ 1056. Justice of supreme court, or county judge, may order draw
ing of additional jurors. A justice of the supreme court, appointed to
hold a term of the circuit court, or to preside at a term of the court of oyer
and terminer, may, by an order under his hand, direct that such a number
of jurors, as he deems necessary, not exceeding twenty-four, be drawn for
hhat term, in addition to the thirty-six jurors, to be drawn as prescribed in
the foregoing sections of this article. A county judge may, in like manner,
direct the drawing of a like additional number of jurors, for a term of the
county court, or of the court of sessions to be held in his county.
§ 1057. Proceedings upon such order. An order, made as prescribed
in the last section, must be delivered to the clerk of the county, in which the
term is to be held, at least twenty days before the day appointed for the
commencement thereof ; and the clerk must forthwith file it. This article
applies to the additional jurors, so required to be drawn.
tl058. For what courts, and by whom, additional jurors may be
ered. At a term of the circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer, or
of the county court, or court of sessions, an order may be made by the court,
requiring the clerk of the county to draw, and the sheriff to notify, any
number of trial jurors, specified in the order, which the court deems neces
sary, to attend that term, or a term thereafter to be held, either by original
appointment or by adjournment, at the commencement thereof, or on a par
ticular day, specified in the order.
§ 1059. How such additional jurors drawn and notified. The clerk
must thereupon forthwith bring into court, all the boxes, wherein ballots,
containing the names of trial jurors are deposited, as prescribed in this
article ; and must, in the presence of the court, publicly draw from such box
or boxes as the court directs, the number of trial jurors specified in the order.
The clerk must make and certify two lists of the persons so drawn ; and
must file one list in his office, and deliver the other to the sheriff. The
sheriff must thereupon immediately notify each person so drawn, to attend,
as specified in the order.
§ 1060. Power of county judge, as to attendance of jurors. The
county judge may, at the time of drawing trial jurors to attend a term of the
county court, or court of sessions, make an order designating a particular
day, during the term when the jurors must attend, or two or more particular
days, upon each of which a portion of the jurors must attend. The sheriff
must thereupon notify them to attend, as specified in the order.
§ 1061. Power of deputy county clerk, under this article. The
deputy county clerk possesses, in the absence of the county clerk from his
office, or from the sitting of a term of the court, the powers conferred by
this article upon the county clerk.
§ 1062. This article not applicable to New York and Kings coun
ties. This article does not apply to the city and county of New York, or to
the county of Kings.
What courts may order a special jury to be struck.
Party obtaining- order to give eight days' notice.
Mode of striking jury.
Jurors so drawn to be notified to attend.
Jury to be formed as in other cases.
Provision where clerk or commissioner of jurors is interested.
Party applying for special juryto pay expenses.
Copy of order for foreign jury to be delivered to sheriff.
Mode of obtaining a foreign jury.
§ 1063. What courts may order a special jury to be struck. Where
it appears to the court, that a fair and impartial trial of an issue of fact,
triable by a jury, joined in an action, pending in the supreme court, or in a
superior city court, cannot be had without a struck jury, or that the im
portance or intricacy of the case requires such a jury, the court must make
an order, upon notice, directing a special jury to be struck, for the trial of
the issue. The order must specify the term, and it may specify a particu
lar day in the term, when the jurors must attend.
§ 1064. Party obtaining order to give eight days' notice. Unless the
order specifies, or directs the officer, who is to strike the jury, to fix, a time
for the parties to attend, the* party obtaining it must give at least eight
days' notice of the time, when he will attend, before the clerk of the county
in which the action is triable, or, if it is triable in the city and county of
New York, or the county of Kings, before the commissioner of jurors, or, if
it is triable in the superior court of Buffalo, before the clerk of that court,
for the purpose of having the jury struck.
§ 1065. Mode of striking jury. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] At
the time appointed, the clerk, or, in his absence, the deputy-clerk, or the
commissioner, as the case requires, must attend at his office, with the original
lists or books, filed or kept in his office, as required by law, containing the
names of the persons who are then liable to serve as trial jurors ; and, in the
presence of the parties, or their attorneys, or counsel, must strike a trial
jury, as follows :
1. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or commissioner, must select from the lists or
books, the names of forty-eight persons, whom he deems most indifferent
between the parties, and best qualified to try the issue ; and must make and
certify a list of those names.
2. The party, on whose application the special jury was directed to be
struck, or his attorney or counsel, may then first strike from the list one
name ; the adverse party or his attorney or counsel may then strike there
from one name ; and so alternately, until each party has stricken out twelve
names.
3. If either party fails to attend, at the time and place of striking the
jury, or neglects to strike out a name, the clerk, deputy-clerk, or commis
sioner, must strike for him.
4. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or commissioner, must thereupon make out a
list of the names of the twenty-four persons not stricken out, and must
certify that it is a correct list of the persons, drawn to serve as jurors,
pursuant to the order of the court. He must immediately deliver the list
bo certified, and a certified copy of the order, to the sheriff of the county.
If the list from any ward or town cannot be found, the clerk must make
a new list from the ballots then in use for jurors of that ward or town, and
must use that list upon striking the jury, in place of the original list.
§ 1066. Jurors so drawn to be notified to attend. The sheriff must
notify the persons whose names are contained in the list, and must return
the names of those notified, to the term, at which they are required to
attend, as prescribed by law for notifying and returning ordinary trial
jurors.
§ 1067. Jury to be formed as in other cases. From the persons so
notified and attending, a jury must be formed for the trial, and the issue
must be tried as prescribed in this chapter with respect to an ordinary
jury trial. The court has the same power to excuse or discharge a juror,
talesmen to attend, as upon
an ordinary jury trial. But the court may, in its discretion, set aside an
additional juror so drawn, or a talesman, upon the objection of either party,
without a formal challenge.
§ 1068. Provision where clerk or commissioner of jurors is inter
ested. If it appears to the court, to which an application for a special jury
is made, that the clerk or commissioner of jurors, as the case may be,
is interested in the action ; or is related to either of the parties ; or is not
indifferent between them ; the court must appoint two disinterested persons
to strike the jury. The persons so appointed possess, for the purposes of
the action, all the powers conferred, by this article, upon the clerk, or the
commissioner of jurors.
§ 1069. Party applying for special jury to pay expenses. The
expense of striking a special jury must be paid by the party applying for
it, and shall not be taxed in the costs of the action.
§ 1070. Copy of order for foreign jury to be delivered to sheriff.
Where an order for a trial by a foreign jury is made, a certified copy thereof
must be delivered to the sheriff of the county, from which it is to be drawn;
who must give notice thereof to the clerk of that county, and also, in the
city and county of New York, or the county of Kings, to the commissioner
of jurors, at least twenty days before the first day of the term, at which the
foreign jury is required to attend.
§1071. Mode of obtaining a foreign jury. The clerk, or, in the county
of Kings, the commissioner, to whom the notice is given, must draw the
names of twenty-four persons, in the same manner, and in presence of the
same officers, as prescribed by law, with respect to ordinary trial jurors ;
except that notice of the drawing need not be published. A. certified list
of the names drawn must be delivered to the sheriff, who must notify each
person drawu, and make a return, as in an ordinary case.

Fine to be imposed for non-attendance.
Order to show cause, when juror was not personally notified.
Id. 5 if default was at circuit.
Duty of clerk, and sheriff.
Proceedings upon return of such order.
When proceeding* to cense.
This article not applicable to New York and Kings counties.
tl072. Fine to be imposed for non-attendance. A person duly noti, as prescribed in this title, to attend a term of a court of record, as a
trial juror, who, without reasonable cause, neglects to attend, according to
the notice, shall be fined a sum, not less than ten dollars nor more than
twenty-five dollars, for each day that he so neglects to attend.
1073. Order to show cause when juror was not personally notified
ere it appears, by the return of the sheriff, that the delinquent was per
sonally notified to attend, the fine may be imposed by the court, at the term
which he was required to attend. But where it appears, by the return, that
he was notified, by leaving the notice at his residence, the court must cause
an order to be entered in its minutes, requiring him to show cause, on the
first day of the next term of the court, why a fine should not be imposed
upon him.
§ 1074. Id ; if default was at circuit. If the order is made at a term
of a circuit court, it may, in the discretion of the court, direct the delinquent
to show cause, on the first day of the next term of the county court of the
same county.
§ 1075. Duty of clerk and sheriff The clerk must immediately deliver
two certified copies of the order to the sheriff of the county, who must serve
one copy on the delinquent personally, and return the other, with his- pro
ceedings thereon, to the term at which the delinquent is required to show
cause.
§ 1076. Proceedings upon return of such order. If the sheriff returns
the copy of the order as personally served, or if the delinquent attends, in
obedience thereto, the court must, unless good cause is shown to the con
trary, impose the proper fine ; otherwise it must make a further order,
requiring the delinquent to show cause at the next term why the fine should
not be imposed. The proceedings under such an order are the same as
under the first order. Similar orders must be made, from term to term, and
similar proceedings taken, until the delinquent is personally served, or attends
in obedience thereto.
§ 1077. When proceedings to Cease. But if it appears from the return
of the sheriff, or from any other evidence, that the juror is dead, or insane,
or has permanently removed from the county ; or if a satisfactory excuse is
rendered by any person, in his behalf, for his default, the court may, in its
discretion, discontinue the proceedings.
§ 1078. This article not applicable to New York and Kings coun
ties. This article does not apply to the city and county of New York, or to
the county of Kings.
Who deemed a resident.
Persons exempt from service.
Evidence of right to exemption in certain cases.
Military officers required to certify to commissioner persons performing1
full military duty.
Jury year ; length of jury service required and allowed.
When court may temporarily excuse juror from attendance.
In other cases, juror to be excused only on showing certain facts.
Juror applying to court to be excused must produce notice, etc.
Service in a court not of record ; when an excuse.
Clerk of court to certify to commissioner as to attendance, excuses, fines,
etc., of jurors.
Commissioner of jurors to select trial jurors; his general jpowers.
Commissioner may appoint assistants, etc , who may administer oaths.
All public officers required to aid the commissioner.
Expenses of commissioner's office ; how paid.
Lists of jurors to be prepared, etc. ; commissioner to decide as to exemptions.
Persons may be required to testify as to juror's liability to serve. Penalty
for disobedience.
Commissioner to return list to county clerk j correction of lists.
Old ballots to be destroyed and new ballots deposited ; supplemental lists ;
new ballots therefore.
Number of jurors to be drawn for each term of court of record.
When jurors to be drawn j what officers to attend drawing.
Notice of drawing.
Proceedings if officers do not appear.
When jury to be drawn on adjourned day.
Mode of drawing ; minute, lists.
Id. ; where term consists of two or more parts.
Commissioner may issue notice to jurors drawn.
Sheriff to notify jurors and make return.
Clerk of court to certify as to mode of service.
Court may order new panel to be drawn during term.
Court of record to fine juror for non-attendance ; power to remit fine.
Juror may also be arrested and compelled to serve.
Jurors for district courts; how selected; punishment for non-attendance ;
clerk's duty ; penalty for neglect.
Sheriff*s jury ; how selected, etc.
(
Proceedings before commissioner, to remit or enforce jury fines.
Board for enforcement of jury fines ; proceedings before it.
General powers of board.
Commissioner to issue warrant to collect fines ; sheriffs powers and duties
thereupon.
Uncollected fines to be docketed, and enforced as judgments.
Commissioner to receive fines, etc. His account ; how rendered and settled.
Corporation attorney to prosecute for penalties ; compromise, etc., of
action.
Penalty for physician giving false certificate.
Persons required to furnish information ; penalty for refusal, etc.
Punishment for bribery of officer, etc., by juror drawn.
Id. ; for officer accepting bribes, etc.
Id. ; for concealing' offer to take bribe, etc.
False swearing ; when perjury.

§ 1079. Qualifications of trial jurors. In order to be qualified to serve,
as a trial juror, in a court in the city and county of New York, a person
must be
1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of that city and county.
2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than seventy years of age.
3. The owner, in his own right, of real or personal property, of the valueof two hundred and fifty dollars ; or the husband of a woman who is the
owner, in her own right, of real or personal property of that value.
4. In the possession of his natural faculties, and not infirm or decrepit.
5. Free from all legal exceptions ; intelligent ; of sound mind and good
character ; and able to read and write the English language understanuingly.
§ 1080. Who deemed a resident. A person dwelling or lodging in the
city and county of New York, for the greater part of the time, between the
first day of October and the thirtieth day of June next thereafter, is a resi
dent of that city and county, for that jury year, within the meaning of the
last section ; and it is not necessary that he should have been assessed, or
should have voted there.
§ 1081. Persons exempt from service. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877
and by Ch. 542 of 1879 and by Ch. 67 of 1880.] Either of the following
persons, although qualified, is entitled to an exemption from service as atrial
juror, upon his claiming an exemption, as prescribed in this acticle :
1. A clergyman, or a minister of any religion, officiating as such, and not
following any other calling.
2. A practicing physician, surgeon, or surgeon dentist having patients
requiring his daily professional attention, and not following any other call
ing, and a licensed pharmaceutist or pharmacist while actually engaged in
his profession as a means of livelihood.
3. An attorney or counsellor at law, regularly engaged in the practice of
the law, as a means of livelihood.
4. A professor or teacher in a college, academy, or public school, not fol
lowing any other calling.
5. The holder of an office, under the United States, or the State, or the
city or county of New York, whose official duties at the time, prevent his
attendance as a juror.
6. A consul of a foreign nation.
7. A captain, engineer, or other officer, actually empioye upon a vessel,
making regular trips ; or a licensed pilot, actually following that calling.
8. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed by a railroad com
pany, other than a street railroad company ; or a telegraph operator, em
ployed by a telegraph company ; who is actually doing duty in an office, or
along the railroad or telegraph line of the company by which he is employed.
9. A grand juror, or a sheriff 's juror, for the year, selected pursuant to law.
10. An officer, non-commissioned officer, musician or private, actually
serving in a brigade regiment, battalion, company, or troop, of the national
guard of the State, uniformed and equipped according to law, and faithfully
performing his duty, by making the parades, and attending the drills, in
spections and reviews required by law ; or a general or staff officer, actually
performing duty as such ; or a person who has been honorably discharged
from the national guard, after five year's service in either capacity.
11. A person who has been honorably discharged from the military forces
of the State, after seven years faithful service therein. But in order to en
title a person to exemption under this subdivision, his service must have
been performed before the 23d day of April, 1862, either as a general or
staff-officer, or as an officer, non-commissioned officer, musician or private,
in a uniformed battalion, company, or troop of the militia of the State, and
armed, uniformed and equipped according to law ; or a portion thereof.
during that period and in that capacity, and the remainder since the 23d
day of April, lb(J2, as a member of the national guard of the State.
12. A person who, after faithfully performing the duties of a fireman, in
a fire company or fire department, duly organized according to the laws of
the State, for five successive years, has been honorably discharged therefrom.
13. A person who is physically incapable of performing jury duty, by
reason of severe sickness, deafness, or other physical disorder.
14. A person holding office under the fire or police department of the city;
or otherwise specially exempted by law.
§ 1082. Evidence of light to exemption in certrin cases. The evi
dence of the right to exemption, as prescribed iu the last section, is as
follows :
1. Under subdivision tenth thereof, where the applicant is a member of a
company or troop, the certificate of the captain, or other commanding officer
thereof, dated within three months of the time of presenting it. Or the
commissioner of jurors may, in his discretion, receive the certified list,
specified in the next section, as sufficient evidence thereof. Where the ap
plicant is a regimental officer, or a staff-officer, the evidence of the right to
exemption is the certificate of the major-general, or other officer, command
ing the first division.
2. Under subdivision tenth thereof, where the applicant has been dis
charged, or under subdivision eleventh or twelfth, the certificate of dis
charge ; and, where it does not show all the facts, the affidavit of the appli
cant, or of another person acquainted with the facts.
3. Under subdivision thirteenth thereof, the certifica'e of a reliable physi
cian, or the affidavit of the applicant, or both ; or any other evidence satis
factory to the commissioner.
4. Under any other subdivision thereof, an affidavit of the applicant, or
an affidavit satisfactory to the commissioner, of another person in his behalf,
stating the facts entitling the applicant to exemption. Each certificate
specified in this section, must be accompanied with satisfactory proof, by
affidavit, of the genuineness of the signature thereto ; and each affidavit
and certificate must be filed with the commissioner of jurors, and must be
kept open by him, at all reasonable times, to public inspection.
§ 1083. Military officers required to certify to commissioner persons
performing fall military duty. The captain, or other commanding officer
of each company or troop, in the first division of the national guard,
must deliver to the commissioner of jurors, on or before the first day
of July in each year, and at any other time when he may require it, a
list, certified by him, containing the full name and residence of each
member and officer of his company or troop, who is uniformed and
equipped, and faithfully performs his duty, as prescribed in subdivi
sion tenth of the last section but one. No other name shall be inserted
in the list. The list must be filed in the commissioner's office. The majorgeneral, or other officer, commanding that division, must, when necessary,
issue orders to carry this section into effect. He must also furnish to the
commissioner of jurors, when so required, a list, certified by him, containing
the name and residence of each officer or other member of that division, not
comprised in the lists of the companies and troops. An officer, who neglects
or refuses to perform the duty, specified in this section ; or who includes, in
a list certified by him, the name of a person who is not described in this
section ; or who gives a false certificate, in a case specified in the last sec
tion ; forfeits the sum of fifty dollars for each offense.
§ 1084. Jury year ; length ol jury service required and allowed
The jury year, in the city and county of New York, commences on the first
day of October. A person who has actually served, as a trial juror, in a
court of record of the State, within that city and county, twelve days within
a jury year, is entitled to be discharged by the court ; except that he shall
not be discharged, until the close of a trial, in which he is serving, when
the twelve days expire. A person discharged, as prescribed in this section,
is, thereafter, during the same jury year, exempt from jury service in any
county of the State. Where the certificates of one or more clerks of the
courts, made as prescribed in section 1089 of this act, show that a person is
entitled to a discharge, as prescribed in this section, the commissioner of
jurors must, upon request, certify to the fact. A person cannot serve as a
trial juror, in courts of record, at more than two terms in a jury year.
§ 1085. When court may temporarily excuse juror from attendance.
The judge, holding a term, may, in his discretion, excuse a trial juror from
service at that term, for not more than three days at a time, where the exi
gencies of his business require his temporary exemption. A judge may
also discharge, for the term, one or more jurors, notified and attending, whose
further attendance is not required for the trial of issues at that term. Or he
may discharge, until a day certain, one or more jurors, notified and attend
ing, whose attendance will not be required, for the trial of issues, until that
day. Each juror, so discharged until a day certain, must attend at the
opening of the court on that day, and thereafter until he is discharged,
without further notice. If he fails so to do, he is liable to the same punish
ment, and the same proceedings must be taken, as if he had failed to
attend, at the time fixed in the notice given to him.
§ 1086. In other cases, juror to be excused only on showing certain
facts. Except as prescribed in the last section, a court or a judge shall not
excuse a person, liable to serve as a trial juror, and duly drawn and noti
fied, unless it is shown, by the oath of the juror, or, if he is unable to
attend, by the oath of another person, acquainted with the facts, that he is
then necessarily absent from the city, and will not return in time to serve ;
or that the interests of the public, or of the juror, will be materially injured
by his attendance ; or that he is physically unable to serve ; or that his wife,
or a near relative of himself or his wife, has recently died or is dangerously
sick. Where a person liable to serve is excused, in a case specified in this
section, or where a person, notified to attend a term, as a trial juror, is
entitled to, and claims an exemption, he can be excused only by the judge,
holding the term, which he has been notified to attend. Such an excuse
does not extend beyond that term.
§ 1087. Juror applying to court to be excused must produce notice,
etc. A person, who has been notified to attend, as a trial juror, and who
applies to be excused, as prescribed in the last section, must bring the notice,
if he has received it, into court, and present it, in open court to the judge ;
or, if he cannot personally attend, he must send it, by a person capable of
making the necessary proof, in relation to his claim to be excused. A note of
the excuse, and of the reason therefore, attested by the judge, who must append
his signature or his initials thereto, must also be made upon the notice to
attend ; or, if the juror has not brought it into court, upon a separate piece
of paper ; which must be transmitted to the commissioner of jurors, by the
clerk, as part of the return, made as prescribed in section 1089 of this act.
§ 1088. Service in a court not of record ; when an excuse. A person,
eerving as a trial juror, elsewhere than in a court of record, is excused from
jury duty in a court of record, only during the time of his actual service
elsewhere.
§ 1089. Clerk of court to certify to commissioner as to attendance,
excuses, fines, etc., of jurors. The clerk of each court of record in the
city and county of New York, must, within ten days after the close of each
term for which trial jurors have been drawn, or after the discharge of the
trial jurors, if they are discharged before the close of the term, return to the
commissioner of jurors, the certified copy of the minute of the drawing of
the jurors, received from the sheriff, and the sheriff's return thereto, or a copy
of each paper, certified by the clerk ; together with each notice or other
paper, attested by a judge, as prescribed in the last section but one. The
clerk must also deliver to the commissioner therewith, his certificate, specify
ing, distinctly and in detail, as follows :
1. The name and residence of each juror, who attended and served; the
number of days the juror attended for the purpose of serving ; and the num
ber of days he actually served.
2. The name and residence of each juror, who was excused or discharged ;
with the reason therefore.
3. The name and residence of each person notified, who did not attend or
serve.
4. The name and residence of each person fined, and the date and amount
of his fine, unless the fine has been remitted, as prescribed in section eleven
hundred and nine of this act.
The return and certificate must be filed in the commissioner's office, and
shall not be altered or corrected, except in pursuance of an order of the
court. If a clerk fails to make a complete return and certificate, as prescribed
in this section, he is guilty of a contempt of the court ; and the commissioner
ofjurors must institute the appropriate proceedings to punish him accordingly. .
§ 1090. Commissioner of jurors to select trial jurors ; bis general
powers. Trial jurors must be selected by the commissioner of jurors, who
must alone decide upon their qualifications, and exemptions, except as other
wise expressly prescribed in this article. But this section does not impair
the right to challenge a particular juror at the trial. The commissioner may
issue, to a person entitled to an exemption, a certificate of that fact, which
exempts the person, to whom it is granted, from jury duty, duriug the time
limited therein. He must keep a record of all proceedings before him, or in
his office. He is entitled to, and must collect, for the benefit of the city, for
a copy of a paper furnished by him, the same fees as the clerk of a court of
Tecord.
§ 1091. Commissioner may appoint assistants, etc., who may
administer oaths. The commissioner of jurors may, from time to time,
appoint, and at pleasure remove, one or more assistants, clerks in his office,
and messengers, and may fix their compensation. He may designate, in
writing, an assistant, to attend, in his place, the drawing of jurors, for a
particular term. The commissioner, or each assistant, whom he designates
for the purpose, by a certificate, filed in the office of the county clerk, may
administer an oath or affirmation, in relation to any matter, embraced within
the provisions of this article.
*
§ 1092. All public officers required to aid the commissioner. The
president and commissioners of the department of taxes and assessments,
the police commissioners, and all other public officers in the city of New
York, must render to the commissioner of jurors, all the assistance in
their power, to enable him to procure the names of persons, liable to serve
as trial jurors.
§ 1093. Expenses of commissioner's office ; how paid. The board
of alderman* of the city of New York must take care, that suitable rooms,
and other accommodations are provided for the use of the commissioner of
jurors. If, by the first day of March, in any year, suitable Tooms have not
been provided for his use, for the year commencing on the first day of May
next ensuing, he may lease suitable rooms, for that year, and may pay the
rent, out of the money received by him for fines and penalties. But a lease
so made shall not take effect, until a majority of the members of the board,
specified in section 1114 of this act, indorse thereupon a certificate, signed
by them, to the effect, that, in their opinion, such a lease is necessary, in
consequence of the omission to make other suitable provision, as prescribed
in this section; that the rooms leased are required, for the proper perform
ance of tho duties of the commissioner ; that the rent payable therefore, by
the terms of the lease, is, in their opinion, reasonable ; and that the lease is
in all other respects, fair, just, and proper. The proper and necessary
expenses of the commissioner's office, including the reasonable compensation
of his assistants, clerks, and messengers, necessary printing and advertising,
books, stationery, and other articles required for the convenient discharge
of his duties, may be paid by him, out of the money, received by him for
fines and penalties. If there is a deficiency, the board of alderman* must
provide for the payment thereof, by the comptroller of city of New York,
out of the city treasury.
§ 1094. Lists of jurors to be prepared, etc., commissioner to decide
as to exemptions The commissioner must commence the preparation of
lists of trial jurors, in the month of May, in each year. For that purpose,
the names of the persons, liable to serve as trial jurors, must be entered in
suitable books, alphabetically, with the occupation, place of business, and
residence of each, as fa" as those particulars can be conveniently ascertained.
After the first day of June, he must publish a notice, for at least ten days,
in not less than six of the newspapers published in the city, that claims for
exemption will be heard by him. He may insert in, or append to the notice,
copies of such portions of the statutes relating to jurors, as he deems expe
dient. He must hear and determine all claims for exemption, and must
keep a record of the persons exempted, and of the period of time for which
the exemption of each is allowed.
§ 1095. Persons may be required to testify as to juror's liability to
serve. Penalty for disobedience. The commissioner may cause to be
personally served, on any person, within the city, a notice, requiring him
to attend, at the commissoner's office, at a specified time, not less than twentyfour hours after service of the notice, for the pur; <^se of testifying concern
ing his own liability, or the liability of any other person, to serve as a
juror. A person so notified must attend, and testify accordingly. If he
fails to attend, as specified in the notice, for any cause, except physical
inability ; or if he refuses to be sworn, or to answer any legal and pertinent
queston, put to him by the commissioner ; he forfeits fifty dollars for each
failure or refusal. One or more successive notices may be served upon the
same person, where he fails to attend, as required by a former notice ; and
he is liable to the same penalty, for each failure so to attend. But the com
missioner may, in his discretion, dispense with the personal attendance of a
person so notified, where another person, cognizant of the facts, is produced
•So in the original.
and testifies in his stead ; and where a person has so attended twice, he
cannot be required to attend again, in the same jury year.
§ 1096. Commissioner to return lists to county clerk ; correction of
lists. On or before the first day of October in each year, the commissioner
must return to the clerk of the city and county of New York, to be filed in
his office, certified copies of the lists, prepared by him, of the persons, liable
to serve as trial jurors in the courts of record, for the ensuing jury year.
He may, from time to time thereafter, strike from the lists kept by him, the
name of a person, who is found by him to be exempt or disqualified. In
that case, he must record the reason why the name is stricken off.
§ 1097. Old ballots to be destroyed and new ballots deposited ; sup
plemental lists ; new ballots therefore. When the certified copies of the
lists have been returned, as prescribed in the last section, the ballots for trial
jurors, used in the previous year, must be returned, by the county clerk, to
the commissioner, who must destroy those which are not required for the cur
rent jury year. The ballots for the current jury year must be prepared by
the commissioner, who may use, for that purpose, so many of the ballots,
prepared for the previous year, as he deems expedient. The ballots, so pre
pared, must be delivered by the commissioner to the county clerk, and
deposited by the county clerk, or his deputy, in a box, as prescribed in arti
cle second of title third of this chapter. The commissioner may, from time
to time thereafter, return certified copies of additional lists, containing the
names of persons liable to serve as trial jurors, which were omitted from the
former lists ; and ballots, containing those names, must be prepared in like
manner, and used for the residue of the jury year.
§ 1098. Number ofjurors to be drawn for each term of court of record.
The number of trial jurors, to be drawn for each term, and each separate
part of a term, of a court of record in the city, at which issues of fact are
triable by jury, must be fixed by a general order of the court, or, if it is not
so fixed for a term, or a separate part of a term, by a written order of the
judge, appointed to hold the same. The order, or a certified copy thereof,
must be filed in the office of the county clerk. If the number has not been
fixed, in either mode, at the time of the drawing, one hundred trial jurors
must be drawn for each term, or for each part, if the term consists of two or
more separate parts.
§ 1099. When jurors to be drawn ; what officers to attend drawing.
On a day, designated by the county clerk, not less than fourteen, nor more
than twenty days, before the day appointed for holding, in the city, a term
of a court of record, at which issues of fact are triable by jury, the commis
sioner of jurors, in person, or by an assistant designated by him ; the sheriff
of the city and county of New York, in person, or by his under-sheriff; and
one or more judges of courts of record, residing in the city, must attend, at
the office of the county clerk, to witness and assist in the drawing of trial
jurors for the term.
§ 1100. Notice of drawing. At least six days before the drawing, the
county clerk must publish notice thereof, in at least three newspapers, pub
lished in the city. He must also cause written notice thereof to be served
upon the sheriff, the commissioner of jurors, and at least three judges of one
or more courts of record, residing in the city.
§ 1101. Proceedings if officers do not appear. If at least one judge of
a court of record, residing in the city, and also the commissioner of jurors,
and the sheriff, in person, or represented, as prescribed in the last section
but one, do not attend, the clerk, or, in his absence, the deputy-clerk, must
adjourn the drawing to the next day. Thereupon the clerk must forthwith
cause to be served, upon the absent commissioner or sheriff, and upon at
least three judges of one or more courts of record, residing in the city, writ
ten notice, to attend the drawing upon the adjourned day.
§ 1102. When jury to be drawn on adjourned day. If the officers,
specified in section 1099 of this act, attend upon the adjourned day, but not
otherwise, the clerk, or, in his absence, the deputy-clerk, must proceed, in
their presence, to draw the jurors.
§ 1103. Mode of drawing ; minute ; lists. The drawing must be con
ducted as follows :
1. The county clerk, or his deputy, must shake the box containing the
ballots, so as thoroughly to mix them.
2. He must then, without seeing the name contained in any ballot, pub
licly draw out of the box, one ballot ; and continue to draw, in like manner,
one ballot at a time, until the requisite number has been drawn.
3. A minute of the drawing must be kept by one of the attending officers,
in which must be entered tho name, contained in each ballot drawn, before
another ballot is drawn.
4. After drawing the requisite number, the minute of the drawing, con
taining the names of the persons drawn, with the proper additions of each,
and specifying for what court and for what term they were drawn, must be
signed by the clerk or his deputy, and the attending officers, and filed iu
the clerk's office.
§ 1104. Id, ; where term consists of two or more parts. If the term
consists of two or more separate parts, the trial jurors for each part must be
drawn, and a minute of the drawing must be made, signed and filed, and
the subsequent proceedings must be the same, as if it was a distinct term.
§ 1105. Commissioner may issue notice to jurors drawn. The com
missioner may issue, to a trial juror so drawn, a printed notice, informing
him that he has been drawn, and will be duly notified by the sheriff, ana
containing copies of such portions of this article, as the commissioner deems
advisable.
§ 1106. Sheriff to notify jurors and make return The clerk must
deliver, to the sheriff, a certified copy of the minute, or of each minute, if
there are two or more. The sheriff must notify each juror, named therein,
to attend the term or part, for which he was drawn, by serving upon him, at
least six days before the commencement thereof, a notice, addressed to him,
stating that he has been drawn as a trial juror for, and is required to attend,
the term or part, specified in the notice. The notice may be served person
ally, or by leaving it at the juror's residence, or usual place of business, with
a person of proper age and discretion. Before the commencement of the
term or part, the sheriff must file with the clerk, the certified copy of the
minute, with a return, under his hand, indorsed thereupon, or annexed
thereto, naming each person notified, and specifying the manner in which
he was notified.
§ 1107. Clerk of court to certify as to mode of service. The clerk of
each court, for a term of which trial jurors are notified to attend, by the
Bheriff, must certify to the clerk of the board of alderman,* each case, where
less than a majority of the persons, named in a minute of a drawing, are
•So in the original.
returned as personally served. The board of aldermen are prohibited from
allowing or paying any fees or charges to the sheriff, for notifying any of
the persons named in that minute, or for making a return thereupon. A
clerk of a court, who omits to notify the clerk of the board of alderman, as
prescribed in this section, is liable to a penalty of one hundred dollars, for
each omission, to be recovered by any person suing therefore.
§ 1108. Court may order new panel to be drawn during term.
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
of a court of record in the city, the court may direct an additional number of
trial jurors to be drawn, for the term, or for the part, at which the order is
made. The order must specify the number to be drawn, and the time of
drawing. The drawing may be made, either in open court, under the direc
tion of the judge ; or in the ordinary manner, except that notice is not
required. The sheriff must forthwith notify the jurors drawn, by such a
notice as the court directs, to attend the term or part, at the time specified
in the order.
§ 1109. Court of record to fine juror for non-attendance ; power to
remit fine. Where a person, duly drawn, and notified to attend a term of
a court of record, as a trial juror, fails to attend, at the time specified in the
notice, or from day to day, the court, at that term, must impose upon him a
fine of not less than fifty nor more than two hundred and fifty dollars. A
fine thus imposed may be wholly or partly remitted, by direction of the
judge, in open court, before the end of the same term, and upon good cause
shown ; otherwise it shall not be remitted, except as prescribed in sections
1113 and 1114 of this act. Each remission, so made by the judge, with the
reason therefore, must be entered in the minutes of the court. This section
applies to a special juror, as well as to an ordinary trial juror.
§ 1110. Juror may also be arrested and compelled to serve. Where
a person, duly drawn and notified, fails to attend and serve, at a term of a
court of record, as required by law, without having been excused, the court
besides imposing a fine, as prescribed in the last section, may direct the
sheriff to arrest him, and bring him before the court ; and, when he has been
so brought, it may, in its discretion, compel him to serve.
§ 1111. Jurors for district courts ; how selected ; punishment for
non-attendance ; clerk's duty ; penalty for neglect. A list of trial
jurors, for each of the district courts, must be selected by the commissioner
of jurors : and must consist of not less than fifty, nor more than one hundred
jurors." A person shall not be placed upon such a list, who does not reside
in the district, in which the court is held. The judge of each district court
must impose a fine of twenty-five dollars, upon each person, duly drawn, and
notified to attend the court, as a trial juror, who fails to attend, as required
by the notice. The clerk of the court must, within ten days thereafter,
transmit to the commissioner of jurors a certificate, showing that the fine has
been so imposed, and stating how the notice to attend was served upon the
delinquent, in order that the same proceedings may be had, as in the case of
a delinquent juror in a court of record. A judge, or a clerk, who violates
this section, forfeits one hundred and fifty dollars for each offense.
§ 1112. Sheriff's jury ; how selected, etc. The board for the selection
of grand jurors must, at the time when it selects the grand jurors for each
jury year, also select, from the list of trial jurors for that year, the names of
not less than one hundred and twenty, nor more than one hundred and fifty
persons, to constitute the sheriff's jurors, for that jury year. The commis
sioner of jurors must forthwith transmit, to the sheriff of the city and
county of New York, a list, certified by him, containing the names of the
persons so selected, with the proper additions of each, and showing that they
have been selected, as prescribed in this section. The sheriff must cause
ballots to be prepared, as prescribed iu article second of title third of this
chapter, and to be deposited in a proper box. Where the sheriff is author
ized or required by law, to empanel a jury for any purpose, the requisite
number of ballots must be drawn from the box, as prescribed in that article,
by the sheriff, or by his under-sheriff, or deputy-sheriff. But the sheriff may,
in his discretion, divide the names contained in the list into three panels, each
containing an equal number of names, as nearly as may be. In that case he
must designate the months in which each panel will be used, so that the jury
duty shall be distributed equally, as nearly as may be, among the jurors ;
and ballots shall be deposited in the box, at the beginning of each month,
containing the names of the jurors designated for that month.
§ 1113. Proceedings before commissioner, to remit or enforce jury
fines. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] The commissioner of jurors must
cause a notice to be served upon each delinquent trial juror, returned as
having been fined, stating the amount of the fine, and the term at which he
was fined, and requiring him to attend before the commissioner at the latter's office, on a specified day and at a specified hour, and show cause, if he
has any, why the fine should be wholly or partly remitted, or why payment
of the fine should not be enforced. The notice must be served at least six
days before the day therein specified. If the sheriff's return shows that
notice to attend, as a trial juror, was personally served upon the person fined,
the notice to show cause, as prescribed in this section, may be served upon
him either personally, or- by leaving it at his residence, or usual place of
business, with a person of suitable age and discretion ; otherwise it must be
served upon him personally. If a person so notified fails to attend, the fine
must be enforced. If he attends, he may demand a hearing before the board
for the enforcement of jury fines; otherwise the commissioner must decide
with respect to the remission of the whole or any part of the fine, and the
sufficiency of the cause shown, if any, and his decision is conclusive, with
respect to that fine, unless the person fined, within ten days thereafter,
serves upon him a written demand of a hearing before the board of enforce
ment. In that case, the commissioner must appoint a time for the hearing ;
and the person fined must then attend without further notice.
§ 1114. Board for enforcement of jury fines ; proceedings before it.
The presiding justice of the supreme court, in the first judicial department,
the chief-judge of the court of common pleas, the chief-judge of the superior
court, the chief-justice of the marine court, the mayor, the recorder, the city
judge, the judge of the court of general sessions, and the commissioner of
jurors, constitute the board for the enforcement of jury fines. The board
must meet at the office of the commissioner of jurors, on the last Monday in
October in each year, and on the last Monday of each month thereafter,
until and including the following month of June; and as much oftener as
the business before it requires. Three members of the board constitute a
quorum. The board, either upon a hearing, or when acting upon the com
missioner's decision, as the case requires, has exclusive power, except as in
this article otherwise prescribed, to remit the whole or any part of a fine.
The board, or the commissioner, may, in its or his discretion, hear testimony,
or determine a case upon affidavits ; and may, from time to time, adjourn
the hearing or final disposition of a particular case.
§ 1115. G-eneral powers of board. The board may compel the attend
ance of any person, required to appear before it, as prescribed in the last
section but one. It may issue a warrant, directed to the sheriff of the city
and county of New York, commanding him to arrest, and bring before the
board, a person who fails to attend at the time appointed for hearing his
case, or to pay a fine imposed upon him, and not remitted by the board. If
a delinquent trial juror, duly drawn, and returned by the sheriff as person
ally notified to attend a term, or personally notified to attend before the
commissioner, as prescribed in the last section but one, is, in the opinion of
the board, able to pay his fine, the board may make an order, directing the
sheriff to arrest him, and imprison him in the county jail, until the fine is
paid, not exceeding thirty days. The sheriff must obey such an order. The
board may make an order, directing that a person, paying a fine imposed
upon him, be excused from jury duty, for a period not exceeding one year.
§ 1116. Commissioner to issue warrant to collect fines ; sheriff's
powers and duties thereupon. After ten days have expired, since the
final decision of the board of enforcement, with respect to a fine, as pre
scribed in the last section but one, if the fine has not been remitted or paid,
the commissioner must issue a warrant, under his hand, directed to the
sheriff of the city and county of New York, reciting the facts, and com
manding the sheriff to collect from each person, named in the schedule
annexed thereto, the sum, set opposite that person's name in the schedule,
and to pay over the same to the commissioner. The schedule must contain
the names of persons, fined and notified to show cause, whose fines have not
been wholly paid or remitted; it must show the amount of each fine, remain
ing remitted or unpaid; and the residence or usual place of business of each
person fined, as far as it can be conveniently ascertained. The sheriff must
collect each fine, by a levy upon and sale of the personal property of the
person fined, as prescribed by law, where an execution against property is
issued upon a judgment, rendered in a court of record. The sheriff is
entitled, in each case, to the same fees a* upon such an execution, to be col
lected in the same manner. He must, return the warrant and schedule,
with his proceedings thereupon, to the commissioner, within thirty days
after the delivery thereof to him ; and must then pay over the money col
lected, less his fees. His return may be compelled by the supreme court, in
the same manner as the return of an execution against property, issued upon
a judgment rendered in that court. For his failure to collect a line, an
action may be maintained against him, in a case where such a case* may be
maintained by a judgment creditor, against a sheriff failing to collect an
execution against property, and with like effect. The provisions of section
1119 of this act apply to such an action.
§ 1117. Uncollected fines to be dooketed, and enforced as judg
ments. The commissioners* must, within thirty days after the return of
the warrant to him, file with the clerk of the court, by which each uncol
lected fine was imposed, a certificate to the effect that the warrant has been
returned, and showing what fines remain uncollected. Thereupon the clerk
must make, in the docket-book of judgments, kept by him, the same entries,
as nearly as may be, with respect to each uncollected fine, as if it was a final
judgment, rendered in an action. If the fine was imposed by a court, other
than the supreme court, the clerk thereof must immediately transmit a
transcript of the entries, to the clerk of the city and county of New York,
who must file it, and make the appropriate entries, in his docket-book of
judgments. The commissioner must pay the clerk's fees, at the rate allowed
for similar services, with respect to judgments. When the entries have been
So in the original.
made, the fine, with interest, becomes a lien upon the real property of the
person fined, as if it was recovered by a judgment in the same court ; and
an execution to collect it may be issued, directed to the sheriff of the city
and county of New York, as upon such a judgment. The commissioner has,
in relation to the execution, and the satisfaction of the fine, all the powers
of the attorney for a party recovering such a judgment, in relation to the
§ 1118. Commissioner to receive fines, etc. His account ; how
rendered and settled. The commissioner of jurors must receive all money,
paid or collected for fines or penalties, as prescribed in this article ; and
he may make all payments therefrom, which he is authorized by this article
to make. lie must give a receipt for any money paid to him, for a fine or
penalty. He must keep a just and faithful account of all receipts and pay
ments, by items, showing the name of the person, from whom each sum of
money was received, and to whom each sum of money was paid ; and must,
at all reasonable times, keep his account open to public inspection. At the
end of each calendar year, his account must be verified by his affidavit, to
the effect, that it is, in all respects, just and true ; and that he has not
received any sum of money, during the year, for which he has not charged
himself in the account. The account, thus verified, must be audited and
certified, by at least three other members of the board for the enforcement
of jury fines; and the commissioner must thereupon pay over, to the cham
berlain of the city, the balance, if any, in his hands. The account, thus
audited and certified, must immediately be transmitted by the commis
sioner, to the clerk of the board of aldermen ; and must be published in the
newspaper, designated, as prescribed by law, for the publication of the
official proceedings of city officers.
§ 1110. Corporation attorney to prosecute for penalties; compro
mise, etc., of action. The corporation attorney of the city of New York
must, when required by the commissioner of jurors, prosecute, in the proper
court, an action for the collection of each penalty, incurred as prescribed in
this article ; unless he is satisfied, upon an examination of the case, that
there is a defense to the action. The action must be maintained in the
name of the mayor, aldermen and commonalty of the city of New York as
plaintifffs. The commissioner, with the assent of the corporation attorney,
may compromise, settle, or discontinue, an action so brought. From the
proceeds of an action, prosecuted to judgment and execution, or compro
mised, as prescribed in this section, the corporation attorney may retain the
taxable or taxed costs. He must pay over the remainder to the commis
sioner.
§ 1120. Penalty for physician giving false certificate. A physician,
who knowingly gives a false certificate, or makes a false representation, for
the purpose of enabling or assisting a person, to be discharged, excused, or
exempted from service as a trial juror in the city and county of New York, is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 1121. Persons required to furnish information ; penalty for refusal,
etc. A person, to whom application is made, within the city of New York,N
by the commissioner of jurors, or by his authority, for information, as to
a fact, upon which the liability of himself, or any other person, to serve
as a trial juror, depends, and who refuses to give information relating
thereto, which he can give, or knowingly gives false information relating
thereto; or a person who knowingly makes to the commissioner of jurors, or
to a person acting by his authority, a false representation, as to the iden
tity, residence, dr any other matter, relating to the liability of himself, or
any other person, to serve as a trial juror, forfeits fifty dollars for each
offense.
§ 1122. Punishment for bribery of officer, etc., by juror drawn. A
person who gives, pays, promises, or offers, money, or any other thing, to
the commissioner of jurors, the sheriff, the county clerk, or other clerk of a
court ; or to the deputy of, or a person employed by, the county clerk or
other clerk of a court ; or to an officer, messenger, or other person, employed
by the sheriff, or the commissioner of jurors ; for the purpose of enabling or
assisting himself, or any other person, named or drawn as a trial juror, to
evade, or to be discharged, exempted, or excused from service; or who
knowingly makes a false statement or representation, to a judge, the com
missioner of jurors, or a member of the board of enforcement of jury fines,
for such purpose ; or who knowingly retains, conceals, suppresses, or willfully
destroys, a notice to attend, before the commissioner of jurors, or at a term
of a court, or any other paper, relating to the liability to serve, or service,
as a trial juror, left at the residence or place of business of another, who has
been named or drawn as a trial juror, is guilty of a misdemeanor. The
district-attorney must prosecute for each offense, specified iu this or the next
two sections, which comes to his knowledge.
§ 1123. Id. ; for officer accepting bribes, etc. An officer, or a person
employed by the sheriff, by the commissioner of jurors, or by the county
clerk, or other clerk of a court, who takes money, or any other thing, as a
gift, bribe, or payment, for the purpose of enabling or assisting a person,
named or drawn as a trial juror, to evade, or to be discharged, exempted, or
excused from jury duty ; or who willfully and knowingly prevents or hinders
the execution of any provision of this article, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 1124. Id. ; for concealing offer to take bribe, etc. A person, named
or drawn as a trial juror, to whom an offer or suggestion to procure his
discharge, exemption, or excuse from jury duty, for or in consideration of a
corrupt inducement or reward, is made by any persons, and who fails, within
twenty-four hours thereafter, to inform the commissioner of jurors thereof,
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 1125. False swearing ; when perjury. A person, who swears falsely
in an affidavit, or testifies falsely upon an inquiry, made as prescribed in
this article, is guilty of perjury, in a case where falsely swearing, in an affi
davit, used upon a motion in a civil action, or falsely testifying, upon the
trial of an issue of fact in such an action, would constitute that crime.

Qualification of trial jurors.
Persons exempt from service.
Evidence of right to exemption in certain cases.
Length of jury service required. Notice to juror to attend.
When court to excuse juror from service.
Clerk of court to certify to commissioner, as to attendance, excuses, fines,
etc., of jurors.
Commissioner of jurors to select trial jurors ; his general powers.
Id. ; to receive fees and fines for benefit of county.
Supervisors to provide for his expenses, etc.
Assessors to return persons liable, and commissioner to select jurors.
When commissioner to publish notice, and receive evidence of exemption.
Commissioner to prepare list, and file transcript
Supplemental lists may be afterwards made.
Ballots to be prepared, and deposited in box.
What officers to attend drawing ; how many jurors to be drawn.
Proceedings preliminary to the drawing.
Drawing; how conducted.
Certificate to be made, and boxes sealed up.
Subsequent drawings ; how conducted.
Proceedings when first box exhausted.
Commissioner to transmit panel to sheriff ; sheriff to notify jurors.
Days for which the jurors are to be notified. Excusing jurors, and chang
ing; days of their attendance.
1148. Sheriff to make return of jurors notified.
1149. Court may at any time order a new panel. How drawn.
1150. Jurors in certain special proceedings.
1151. Compensation to judges, etc., for services under this article.
1152. Court of record to fine juror for non-attendance.
1153. Juror may also be arrested, and compelled to serve.
1154. Commissioner to notify jurors fined to appear; board for remission and
enforcement of fines.
1155. Commissioner to collect fines, and to make return of unpaid fines ; precept
thereupon.
1156. Fines, not collected under precept, to be docketed and enforced as judg
ments.
1157. When lien discharged.
1158. Commissioner, etc., corruptly omitting name, is guilty of felony.
1159. Commissioner's other willful neglect, a misdemeanor.
1160. Giving false information, or suppressing notice a misdemeanor.
1161. Penalty for physician giving false certificate.
1162. Commissioner to report and pay over money.
§ 1126. Qualifications of trial jurors. In order to be qualified to serve,
as a trial juror, in a court of record in the county of Kings, a person must be :
1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of that county.
2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than sixty years of age.
3. The owner, in his own right, of real property, of the value of one hun
dred and fifty dollars, or of personal property, of the value of two hundred
and fifty dollars ; or the husband of a woman, who is the owner, in her own
right, of real or personal property, of that value.
4. In the possession of his natural faculties ; and not infirm or decrepit.
5. Free from all legal exceptions; intelligent; of sound mind and good
character; and able to read and write the English language understandingly.
§ 1127. Persons exempt from service. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.]
Either of the following persons, although qualified, is entitled to an exemp
tion from service, as a trial juror, upon his claiming, an exemption, as pre
scribed in this article :
1. A clergyman or a minister of any religion, officiating as such, and not
following any other calling.
2. A practicing physician, surgeon, or dentist-surgeon, having patients
requiring his daily professional attendance, and not following any other
calling, and a licensed pharmaceutist or pharmacist, while actually engaged in
his profession as a means of livelihood. [Am'd Ch. 358 op 1881.]
3. An attorney or counsellor at law, regularly engaged in the practice of
the law, as a means of livelihood.
4. A professor or teacher in a college, academy, or public school, or in a
private school for the instruction of pupils in the usual branches of educa
tion, not following any other calling.
5. The holder of an office, under the United States, or the State, or the
county, or the city of Brooklyn, or a town of the county ; whose official
duties, at the time, prevent his attendance as a juror.
6. A captain, engineer, or other officer, actually employed upon a vessel,
making regular trips ; or a licensed pilot, actually following that calling.
7. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed by a railroad com
pany, other than a street railroad company ; or a telegraph operator, em
ployed by a telegraph company, who is actually doing duty in an office, or
along the railroad or telegraph line, of the company, by which he is employed.
8. An officer, non-commissioned officer, musician or private, actually serv
ing in a brigade, regiment, battalion, company or troop, of the national guard
of the State, uniformed and equipped, according to law, and faithfully per
forming his duty, by making the parades, and attending the drills, inspec
tions, and reviews required by law ; or a general or staff officer, actually
performing duty as such ; or a person who has been honorably discharged
from the national guard, after five years service, in either capacity.
9. A person, who has been honorably discharged from the military forces
of the State, after seven years' faithful service therein. But, in order to
entitle a person to exemption, under this subdivision, his service must have
been performed before the twenty-third day of April, eighteen hundred and
sixty-two, either as a general or staff officer, or as an officer, non-commis
sioned officer, musician, or private, in a uniformed battalion, company, or
troop, of the militia of the State, and armed, uniformed, and equipped
according to law; or a portion thereof, during that period, and in that
capacity, and the remainder, since the twenty-third day of April, eighteen
hundred and sixty-two, as a member of the national guard of the State.
10. A person, who, after faithfully performing the duties of a fireman, in
a fire company or fire department, duly organized, according to the laws of
the State, for five successive years, has been honorably discharged there
from ; or who is, at the time, an officer or member of a fire company, duly
organized, according to the laws 6f the State, and faithfully performing his
duty therein.
11. A person, who is physically incapable of performing jury duty, by
reason of severe sickness, deafness, or other physical disorder.
12. A person belonging to the army or navy of the United States ; or to
the police force or fire department of the city of Brooklyn.
13. A person otherwise specially exempted by law.
§ 1128. Evidence of right to exemption in certain cases. The evi
dence of the right to exemption, as prescribed in the last section, is as
follows :
1. Under subdivision eight thereof, where the applicant is a member of
the national guard, below the rank of brigadier-general, the certificate of
the commanding officer of the brigade, regiment, battalion, company, or
troop, to which the applicant belongs, dated within three months of the
time of presenting it.
2. Under subdivision eighth, ninth or tenth thereof, where the applicant
has been discharged, the certificate of discharge ; accompanied where it
does not show all the facts, with the affidavit of the applicant, or of another
person, acquainted with the facts.
3. Under subdivision tenth thereof, where the applicant is an officer or
member of a fire company, the certificate of the foreman, or other chief officer,
of the company, to which the applicant belongs, dated within three months
of the time of presenting it.
4. Under any other subdivision thereof, an affidavit of the applicant; or
an affidavit, satisfactory to the commissioner, of another person in his behalf,
stating the facts, entitling the applicant to exemption.
Each certificate, specified in this section, must be accomDanied with satis
factory proof, by affidavit, of the genuineness of the signature thereto ; and
each affidavit and certificate must be filed with the commissioner of jurors,
and must be kept open by him, at all reasonable times, to public inspection.
§ 1129. Length of jury service required ; notice to juror to attend.
A person shall not be required to serve, as a trial juror, more than six days,
at any term, for wnich his name is drawn, as prescribe in this article, unless
the court, for good cause, otherwise specially directs ; except that he shall
not be discharged, until the close of a trial, in which he is serving, at the
time when the six days expire. A person shall not be required to serve, as
a trial juror, except by the special order of the judge presiding at or holding
the term, or as otherwise specially prescribed in this article, unless at least
three days' previous notice to attend has been served upon him, as prescribed
in section 1146 of this act.
§ 1130. When court to excuse juror from service. The judge presid
ing at, or holding a term, may, in his discretion, excuse a trial juror, attend
ing thereat, from service, during the whole or a portion of that term, in
either of the following cases :
1. Where he has actually served as a trial juror, in a court of record in the
county within six months before the commencement of the term, and since
the second Monday of August, preceding the commencement thereof.
2. Where he has actually served in the county, as a grand juror, pursuant
to law, since the first Monday of September, preceding the commencement
of the term.
3. Where the interests of the public, or of the juror, will be materially
injured by his attendance ; or his own health, or the health of a member of
his family, requires his absence ; or his wife, or a near relative of himself or
his wife, has recently died.
§ 1131. Clerk of court to certify to commissioner, as to attendance,
excuses, fines, etc., of jurors. The clerk of each court of record in the
county of Kings, must, within one week after the close of each term, for
which trial jurors have been drawn, or after the discharge of the trial jurors,
if they are discharged before the close of the term, return to the commis
sioner of jurors, the panel of trial jurors, with the sheriff's return, received
from the sheriff, as prescribed in section 1148 of this act, or a copy of each
of those papers, certified by the clerk. The clerk must also deliver to the
commissioner therewith, a certificate, specifying, distinctly and in detail, as
follows :
1. The name and residence of each juror, who attended and served ; and
the number of days he actually served.
2. The name and residence of each juror, who was excused or discharged;
with reason therefore.
3. The name and residence of each person notified who did not attend or
serve.
4. The name and residence of each person fined, and the date and
amount of his fine.
The return and certificate must be filed in the office of the commissioner,
■who must also record therefrom, upon the list originally made by him, the
date and amount of service, performed by each person, as therein set forth.
§ 1132. Commissioner of jurors to select trial jurors ; his general
powers. Trial jurors must be selected by the commissioner of jurors, who
may decide upon their qualifications, and exemptions, as prescribed in this
article. The commissioner may from time to time appoint, and at pleasure
remove, one assistant, and as many more assistants, clerks, and messengers,
as the board of supervisors directs. The commissioner, and each assistant,
whom he designates for the purpose, by a certificate, filed in the office of the
county clerk, may administer an oath or affirmation, in relation to any mat
ter, embraced within the provisions of this article. The commissioner must
keep a record of all proceedings before him or in his office.
§ 1133. Id. ; to receive fees and fines for benefit of county. The com
missioner is entitled to, and must collect, for a copy of a paper furnished by
him, the same fees as the clerk of a court of record. He must furnish a copy
of each paper filed, or proceeding taken, in his office, to any person applying
therefore, and paying the fees. All the money received by him, for fees, or
fines collected from trial jurors, or otherwise in the discharge of his duties as
commissioner, must be accounted for by him, and paid into the treasury of
the county.
§ 1134. Supervisors to provide for his expenses, etc. The board of
supervisors of the county must provide suitable rooms, and other accommo
dations, for the use of the commissioner of jurors, and also for the compen
sation of his assistants, clerks, and messengers ; and for necessary printing
and advertising, books, stationery and other articles, required for the conven
ient discharge of his duties.
§ 1135. Assessors to return persons liable, and commissioner to
select jurors. The assessors in the city of Brooklyn, and of each town in
the county of Kings, or a majority of them, must, after the first day of May,
and on or before she first day of July, in each year, return, to the commis
sioner of jurors, a written list, under his or their hands, containing the names
of all persons in the city or town, as the case may be, who are liable to serve
as trial jurors; and stating the occupation, place of business, and residence,
of each person, as far as those particulars can be conveniently ascertained,
The omission to include the names of one or more persons, so liable, or any
other error or defect in a list, does not affect the validity of any proceeding,
prescribed in this article. The commissioner must, within the same period,
select, from the persons residing in the county, suitable persons to serve as
trial jurors. In making the returns or selections, the assessors and the com
missioner respectively must take the names of these persons only, whom they
believe to be qualified to serve, and not exempt from service, as trial jurors.
A list of the names so selected must be made, by the commissioner, in a book,
specifying, as nearly as he has ascertained the facts, the occupation, the
place of business, and the residence of each person, including the town, or,
in the city of Brooklyn, the ward. In the list, the towns must be arranged
alphabetically, and the wards numerically ; and the names of the jurors must
be arranged alphabetically, according to their surnames, each under the
name of the town or ward, where he resides.
§ 1136. When commissioner to publish notice, and receive evidence
of exemption. As soon after the first day of June, in each year, as the
commissioner has made the list, he must publish a notice, for at least ten
days, in at least six daily newspapers, published in the county, to the effect,
that the list of trial jurors for the year is ready, at his office, for examination
and correction. He must then receive evidence of disqualifications or exemp
tions, and must mark " not qualified," or "exempt," in the list, opposite the
name of each person, found to be disqualified to serve, or exempt from serving
as a trial juror, as the case requires. He must also record therein, the ground
of each disqualification or exemption.
§ 1137. Commissioner to prepare list, and file transcript On the
first Monday of August in each year, or earlier, if the corrections can be
earlier made, the commissioner must prepare the list of trial jurors for the
year, by copying, from his book, the names of all persons, who appear
therein to be liable to serve as trial jurors, with the proper additions of each.
The commissioner must file a transcript of the list, verified by his affidavit,
in the office of the county clerk.
§ 1138. Supplemental lists may be afterwards made. Supplemental
lists, containing the names and proper additions of persons, subsequently
ascertained to be liable to serve as trial jurors, may, from time to time there
after be made ; and transcripts thereof, verified as prescribed in the last sec
tion, must be filed in like manner, by the commissioner. Ballots, containing
those names, must be prepared, as prescribed in the next section, and used,
in like manner as the other ballots therein specified, for the residue of the
jury year.
§ 1139. Ballots to be prepared, and deposited in box. The commis
sioner must prepare ballots, by writing the names, contained in the list, a
transcript of which was filed in the office of the county clerk, with the proper
additions of each person, on separate pieces of paper, which must be uni
form, as nearly as may be, in appearance. On the second Monday of
August in each year, he must deposit the ballots, in the box kept by him
for that purpose, and must place his seal upon the box ; whereupon all jury
ballots, previously in use, must be destroyed. The box must be constructed
with an aperture, large enough only to conveniently admit the hand of the
person, by whom the ballots are to be drawn ; and the aperture must be
provided with a cover, so arranged as to be conveniently sealed, when closed.
§ 1140. What officers to attend drawing; how many jurors to be
drawn. The commissioner must seasonably notify the justices of the
supreme court, residing in the county, the judges of the city court of Brook
lyn, the county judge, and the justices of sessions of the county, to attend,
at his office, on a day designated by him, not less than fourteen nor more
than twenty days, before the day appointed for holding a term of a court of
record in the county, at which issues of fact are triable by jury, in order to
witness and assist in the drawing of trial jurors, for that term. The number
of trial jurors, to be drawn for each term, may be fixed by the judge who is
to preside at or hold the term, by an order under his hand, delivered to the
commissioner. If the number has not been so fixed, at the time of the
drawing, one hundred and thirty-two trial jurors must be drawn for the
term.
§ 1141. Proceedings preliminary to the drawing. [Amended by Ch.
542 op 1879.] If two or more of the judges, specified in the last section,
attend with or without one or more justices of sessions, the commissioner
must break the seal of the box containing the ballots, open it, and exhibit
the ballots for their inspection ; together with his original and each supple
mental list of trial jurors, and also the verified transcripts thereof, filed in
the county clerk's office. The ballots, containing the names of trial jurors,
excused from service for the whole or a portion of a previous term of a court
of record in the county, which have not already been replaced in the box, to
be redrawn, and then be replaced therein ; and the judges attending the
drawing, must take care, when the seal is broken, that they are so replaced.
If a supplemental list has been made, and a transcript filed since the last
drawing, ballots containing the names appearing therein must, at the same
time, be placed in the box. The judges and the commissioner, or a majority
of them, must appoint one of the attending officers to draw the ballots from
the box, and another to checkmark the drawing' as it proceeds, upon a copy
of the lists, transcripts of which have been filed with the county clerk.
§ 1142. Drawing ; how conducted. The commissioner must then shake
the box containing the ballots, so as thoroughly to mix them. The person,
appointed for that purpose, must then, without seeing the name contained
in any ballot, publicly draw one ballot from the box, and read aloud the
contents thereof. If the drawing is for trial jurors, to serve in the city court
of Brooklyn, and the person drawn does not reside in that city, the ballot
must be returned to the box; but if he resides in that city, or if the drawing
is for trial jurors to serve in another court, the person appointed to check
mark the drawing, must place, opposite the name of the person drawn, upon
the copy of the lists, the figure one. The ballot must then be deposited in
a second box, provided for that purpose, and constructed like the first box.
Another ballot must then be drawn, in like manner, from the first box ; and
the same process must be repeated, until the requisite number has been
drawn, except that each name must be checkmarked in its numerical order.
§ 1143. Certificate to be made, and boxes sealed up. When the
drawing is completed, the commissioner, and the judges by whom it was
conducted, must sign a minute, at the end of the copy of the lists, upon
which the checkmarks have been made, setting forth that the trial jurors,
whose names are contained therein, were duly drawn by them, for the court
and the term therein specified, in the order denoted by the figures. The
judges must then close each box ; and place upon the cover thereof, their
seals, which must not be broken, except when necessary for a subsequent
drawing.
§ 1144. Subsequent drawings ; how conducted. The proceedings,
upon each subsequent drawing, are the same ; but the list must be checkmarked with numbers, commencing with the number next in order, after
the last number used at the preceding drawing.
§ 1145. Proceedings when first box exhausted. After all the ballots
have been drawn from the first box, and deposited in the second box, the
commissioner must make a new list, by copying the lists used upon the pre
ceding drawings, omitting the checkmarks. He must then correct it, by
properly indicating each person who has been found to be disqualified,
exempt, dead, or not a resident within the county ; and each person, who has
been excused, and for what time. Thereafter, when trial jurors are drawn,
the ballots must be drawn from the second box ; the names must be checkmarked on the corrected list ; and the ballots not used must be deposited in
the first box ; except that where a ballot is drawn, containing the name of a
person indicated on the corrected list, as disqualified, exempt, dead, or non
resident, it must be destroyed; and a ballot, containing the name of a per
son who has been excused, for a period then unexpired, must be returned
to the box from which it was drawn, without checkmarking.
§ 1146. Commissioner to transmit panel to sheriff ; sheriff to notify
jurors. Immediately after each drawing of trial jurors, the commissioner
must prepare a panel, verified by his affidavit, containing the names of the
jurors drawn, with the proper additions of each, and stating for what court
and for what term, they were drawn. He must transmit the panel to the
sheriff of the county, who must keep it on file, in his office, for public inspec
tion. The sheriff' must forthwith notify each juror named therein, to attend
the term for which he was drawn, by serving upon him a notice to that
effect, addressed to him. The notice may be served personally, or by leav
ing it at the juror's residence, or usual place of business, with a person of
proper age and discretion. It must specify the days, during which the
juror is required to be present ; and it may contain copies of such portions
of this article, as the sheriff deems proper.
§ 1147. Days for which the jurors are to be notified. Excusing
jurors, and changing days of their attendance. The thirty-six trial
jurors, first drawn for a term, or such other number as the judge, appointed
to hold or preside at the term, directs, must be notified to be present during
the first six days of the term; and the thirty-six trial jurors next drawn, or
such other number as the judge directs, must be notified to be present during
the next six days of the term ; and a like number during each succeeding
six days. The judge, holding or presiding at the term, may, in his discre
tion, on the application of a trial juror, excuse him, from the whole or a part
of the time of service required of him. The judge may also change the
time of service of a juror to a later day, during the same, or a subsequent
term of the court. Each juror, whose time of service is changed to a day
certain, must attend, at the opening of the court on that day, and thereafter
until discharged, without further notice. If he fails so to do, he is liable to
the same punishment as if he had been personally notified by the sheriff
to attend the term, and to be present on that day. The clerk of the court
must enter in a book, kept for that purpose, the name of each juror who is
so excused, or whose time of service is changed.
§ 1148. Sheriff to make return of jurors notified. Before the com
mencement of each term of a court, for which trial jurors have been drawn,
as prescribed in this article, the sheriff must file, with the clerk, the panel,
or a copy of the panel, with a return, under his hand, indorsed thereupon,
or annexed thereto, showing the name and additions of each juror notified,
the days during which he was notified to attend, and the manner in which
he was notified.
§ 1149. Court may at any time order a new panel. How drawn
At any time during a sitting of a term of a court of record in the county,
the court may direct an additional number of trial jurors to be drawn for
that term. The order must specify the number to be drawn, and the time
of drawing. The drawing must be conducted as prescribed in sections
1141, 1142, and 1143 of this act, except that notice is not required. The
sheriff must forthwith notify each juror drawn, by such a notice as the court
directs, to attend the term, at the time specified in the order.
§ 1150. Jurors in certain special proceedings. In a special proceed
ing, pending before the county judge of Kings county, in which a trial jury
is necessary, the judge may empanel a jury from the trial jurors, who are
serving, at the time, in the court of sessions of the county. In a special
proceeding, pending before a judge of the city court of "Brooklyn, in which
a trial jury is necessary, the judge may empanel a jury, from the trial
jurors who are serving at the time in that court. If there are no jurors
serving in the court of sessions, or in the city court, as the case may be,
the judge may make an order, requiring the commissioner of jurors to
draw the number of trial jurors designated therein ; whereupon the com
missioner must draw the requisite number, and the sheriff must notify
them, as prescribed in this article, for drawing and notifying other trial
jurors.
§ 1151. Compensation to judges, etc., for services under this article.
The board of supervisors of the county must allow to each judge, including
each justice of the supreme court, for the services performed by him, as
prescribed in this article, such compensation, as the board deems reasonable
and proper.
§ 1152. Court of record to fine juror for non-attendance. Where
a person, duly drawn and notified to attend a term of a court of record, as a
trial juror, fails to attend, at the time specified in the notice, or from day
to day, the court, at that term, must impose upon him a fine of twenty-five
dollars, for each day that he fails so to attend. This section applies to a
special juror, as well as to an ordinary trial juror.
§ 1153. Juror may also be arrested, and compelled to serve. Where
a person, duly drawn an notified, fails to attend and serve, at a term of a
court of record, as required by law, without having been excused, the court,
besides imposing a fine, as prescribed in the last section, may direct the
sheriff to arrest him, and bring him before the court ; and, when he has
been so brought, it may, in its discretion, compel him to serve.
§ 1154. Commissioner to notify jurors fined to appear ; board for
remission and enforcement of fines. The commissioners of jurors must
cause a notice to be served upon each delinquent trial juror, returned as
having been fined, stating the sum in which, and the term at which he was
fined, and requiring him to show cause, if he has any, before the board,
specified in this section, at the commissioner's office, on a day, not less than
three days thereafter, an 1 at an hour specified in the notice, why the fine
should be remitted. The commissioner must notify the justices of the
supreme court, residing in the county, the county judge, and the chief-judge
of the city court of Brooklyn, to attend at the same time and place, and act
with him as a board, for the remission and enforcement of jury fines. It is
their duty to attend, and act accordingly. The commissioner, and two of
those justices or judges, constitute a quorum. The board may, in its dis
cretion, hear testimony ; and it may, from time to time, adjourn the meet
ing, or the hearing, or final disposition of a particular case. It may remit
the whole or any part of a fine ; but a fine shall not be remitted or reduced,
unless the person, upon whom it has been imposed, or, if a reason satisfac
tory to the board is given, why his affidavit cannot be furnished, another
person in his behalf, makes, and files with the commissioner, an affidavit,
stating the grounds, upon which a remission or reduction is claimed. Each
affidavit, so filed, must be kept open to public inspection.
§ 1155. Commissioner to collect fines, and to make return of unpaid
fines ; precept thereupon. The commissioner of jurors must receive each
fine, x>aid or collected, as prescribed in this article. When ten days have
expired, since the final disposition of a case by the board, the commissioner
must file, in the office of the clerk of the court, a return, containing the
name of each juror fined, whose fine remains unpaid, and a statement of
the sum remaining unpaid. The clerk must thereupon issue to the commis
sioner, a precept, under the seal of the court, specifying the name of each
person fined, and the amount of his fine remaining unpaid ; and command
ing the commissioner to levy and enforce collection of each fine, and to
return the precept with his doings thereupon, within ninety days after the
receipt thereof. For the purpose of collecting a fine, the commissioner must
levy upon and sell the personal property of a person fined, with like effect,
and subject to the same provisions of law, as where a sheriff levies upon and
Bells personal property, by virtue of an execution, issued upon a judgment
of a court of record.
J 1156. Fines, not collected under precept, to be docketed and
breed as judgments. The commissioner must return the precept,
according to its command, to the clerk of the court issuing it. If he fails
so to do, the court may enforce the return, by attachment for contempt.
When the precept is returned, the clerk must make, in the docket of judg
ments kept by him, the same entries, as nearly as may be, with respect to
each uncollected fine, as if it was a final judgment, rendered in an action.
If the fine was imposed at a term of the city court of Brooklyn, the clerk
thereof must immediately transmit a transcript of the entries, to the clerk
of the county of Kings ; who must file it, and make the appropriate entries
in his docket of judgments. When the entries have been made, the fine,
with interest, becomes a lien upon the real property of the person fined, as
if it was recovered by a judgment in the same court ; and an execution to
collect it may be issued, directed to the sheriff of the county of Kings, as
upon a judgment. The commissioner has, in relation to the execution, and
the satisfaction of the fine, all the powers of the attorney for a party recov
ering such a judgment, in relation to the judgment, and the execution issued
thereupon.
§ 1157. When lien discharged. The lien, created by such a docket,
must be discharged by the county clerk, on filing with him the commission
er's certificate of payment.
§ 1158. Commissioner, etc., corruptly omitting name, is guilty of
felony. If the commissioner of jurors, or either of his assistants, or a clerk
or other person, employed by him, corruptly and without sufficient cause,
omits the name of a person, duly drawn, from a panel of trial jurors, or the
ballot, containing the name of such a person, from either of the boxes pre
scribed in this article ; or directly or indirectly receives a fee, reward, com
pensation, or advantage, in consideration of, or as an inducement to such an
omission ; he is guilty of a felony, and shall on conviction, be punished by
imprisonment in a State prison, for a term not less than two, nor more than
five years.
8 1159. Commissioner's other willful neglect, a misdemeanor. A
willful omission, by the commissioner, of a duty required of him by this ar
ticle, other than that specified in the last section, is a misdemeanor.
§ 1160. Giving false information, or suppressing notice, a misde
meanor. A person to whom application is made, within the county of
Kings, by an assessor, or by the commissioner of jurors, or either of his
assistants, for information, as to a fact, upon which the liability of himself,
or any other person, to serve as a trial juror, depends, and who refuses to
give information relating- thereto, which ho can give, or knowingly gives
false information relating thereto ; or a person who knowingly makes to an
assessor, or to the commissioner of jurors, or a person acting by his authority,
a false representation as to the identity, residence, or any other matter, re
lating to a juror, duly drawn, and placed on a panel to be notified; or who
knowingly retains, conceals, suppresses or willfully destroys, a notice to at
tend, left at the residence or place of business of another, who has been
drawn as trial juror, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 1161. Penalty for physician giving false certificate. A physician,
who knowingly gives a false certificate, or makes a false representation, for
the purpose of enabling or assisting a person to be discharged, excused, or
exempted from service, as a trial juror in the county of Kings, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
§ 1162. Commissioner to report and pay over money. The commis
sioner of jurors must make a yearly report to the board of supervisors, of all
proceedings had before him, or by him, in the discharge of his duties ; and
he must pay over to the county treasurer, at least once in each three months,
all money in his hands, which he has received as commissioner.
Clerk to prepare ballots of jurors for trial.
Clerk to draw ballots.
Mode of drawing ballots.
Persons drawn, etc., to form the jury.
Ballots drawn, when to be deposited in a second box.
Id. ; when to be returned to the first box.
Ballots of absentees, etc., to be returned to first box.
New jury may be drawn while first is empaneled.
When talesmen to be procured, or jurors drawn from third box.
When talesmen to be procured.
If sheriff is a party, court may appoint a person to act for him
Duty of sheriff and of talesmen.
Jury competent, although containing only part or none of original panel.
Two peremptory challenges in a civil action.
No challenge allowed because officer drawing is a party, etc.
No challenge allowed because officer notifying is a party, etc.
Challenges in penal actions.
Challenges how tried. Exceptions to and review of the determination of
the court, in reference thereto.

§ 1163. Clerk to prepare ballots of jurors for trial At the opening of
a term of a court of record at which issues of fact are to be tried by jury, the
clerk must cause ballots, uniform, as nearly as may be, in appearance, to be
prepared, by writing the name of each person, returned to the term as a
trial juror, with his proper additions, on a separate piece of paper. He
must roll up or fold each ballot, in the same manner, as nearly as may be, so
as to resemble the others, and so that the name is not visible. The ballots
must be deposited in a sufficient box, from which they must be drawn, as
prescribed in this article.
§ 1164 Clerk to draw ballots. When an issue of fact to be tried by a
jury, is brought to trial, the clerk, under the direction of the court must
openly draw, out of the box, as many of the ballots, one after another, as are
sufficient to form a jury.
§ 1165. Mode of drawing ballots. Before the first ballot is drawn, the
box must be closed and well shaken, so as thoroughly to mix the ballots ;
and the clerk must draw each ballot, without seeing the name written on
any of them, through an aperture, made in the lid of the box, large enough
only to admit his hand conveniently
§ 1163. Persons drawn, etc., to form the jury. The first twelve per
sons who appear, as their names are drawn and called, and are approved as
indifferent between the parties, and not discharged or excused, must be
sworn : and constitute the iury to try the issue. Persons shall be disquali
fled from sitting as jurors if related by consanguinity or affinity to a party to the
issue in the same cases in which judges are disqualified. The party related to
the juror must raise the objection before the case is opened ; but any other party to
the issue may raise the objection within six months from the date of verdict. [Am'd
Ch. 234 op 1883.J
§ 1167. Ballots drawn, when to be deposited in a second box. The
ballots, containing the names of the jurors so sworn, must be then deposited
in another box, and there kept, apart from the other ballots, until that juryis discharged.
§ 1168. Id. ; when to be returned to the first box. After that jury is
discharged, the ballots containing their names must be again rolled up or
folded, as prescribed in section 1163 of this act, and returned to the box,
from which they were first taken ; and the same course must be pursued, as
often as an issue is brought to trial by a jury.
§ 1169. Ballots of absentees, etc., to be returned to first box. The
ballot containing the name of a juror, who is absent, when his name is
drawn or called, or is set aside, or excused from serving on that trial, must
be again rolled up or folded, in the same maimer as before, and returned to
the box containing the undrawn ballots, as soon as the jury is sworn.
§ 1170. New jury may be drawn while first is empaneled. If an
issue is brought to trial by a jury, while a jury is empaneled in another
cause, at the same term, and not then discharged, the court may order a
jury, for the trial of that issue, to be drawn out of the box containing the
ballots then undrawn ; but, in any other case, the ballots, containing the
names of all the trial jurors, returned at, and attending the term, must be
placed together in the same box, before a jury is drawn therefrom.
§ 1171. When talesmen to be procured, or jurors drawn from third
box [Amended by Ch. 542 of 1879.] If a sufficient number of jurors, duly
drawn and notified, do not attend, or cannot be obtained, to form a trial jury,
the court may in any county except Westchester, direct the sheriff to require
the attendance of such a number of talesmen, from the bystanders, or from
the county at large, qualified to serve as trial jurors, as it deems sufficient
for the purpose. In Westchester county, the court must direct the sheriff to
draw a sufficient number of ballots from the first box, specified in section ten
hundred and thirty-eight of this act if there is not a sufficient number of
ballots remaining therein, to draw the residue from the second box, specified
in section ten hundred and fifty-one of this act. In any other county, ex
cept New York and Kings, it may, in its discretion, instead of directing him
to require talesmen to attend, direct him to draw a sufficient number of bal
lots from the third box, specified in section ten hundred and fifty-two of this
act. In either case, the sheriff must notify the persons thus drawn to at
tend forthwith, or upon a day fixed by the court. If, for any reason a suffi
cient number of jurors to try the issue is not obtained, from the persons
notified ; under an order made as prescribed in this section, the court may
make another order, or successive orders, until a sufficient number is ob
tained ; and in making each order, the court may exercise the same discre
tion, as in making the first order.
§ 1172. When talesmen to be procured. In any county, except New
York, Kings, or Westchester, the court may also direct the sheriff to require
the attendance of such a number of qualified talesmen, for the trial of an
issue of fact, as it deems sufficient, where, by reason of one or more juries
being empaneled, or for any other reason, no ballot remains undrawn ; or
•where, in consequence of jurors being set aside, a juror cannot be obtained,
for the trial of that issue, from the list of those returned.
§ 1173. If sheriff is a party court may appoint a person to act for
him. If, in a case specified in the last two sections, the sheriff is a party to
the issue, the court must appoint a disinterested person, to act in place of
the sheriff. For that purpose the person so appointed possesses all the
powers, and is subject to all the duties and liabilities of the sheriff, with re
spect to the matters specified in those sections.
§ 1174. Duty of sheriff and of talesmen. The sheriff, or person ap
pointed by the court, must notify the requisite number of persons to attend,
and make return thereof, as prescribed in section 1048 of this act ; except
that each person must be required to attend forthwith. Each person so noti
fied must attend forthwith, and unless excused by the court or set aside,
must serve as a juror upon the trial. For a neglect or refusal so to do he
may be fined in the same manner as a trial juror, regularly drawn and
notified, as prescribed in this chapter ; and he is subject to the same excep
tions and challenges, as any other trial juror.
$ 1175. Jury competent although containing only part or none of
original panel. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] It is not a valid objection
to a jury, procured as prescribed in the last four sections, that it contains
none of the jurors originally returned to the term, or is only partially com
posed of such jurors.
§ 1776. Two peremptory challenges in a civil action. Upon the trial
of an issue of fact, joined in a civil action, in a court of record, or not of
record, each party may peremptorily challenge not more than two of the
persons, drawn as jurors for the trial.
<$ 1177. No challenge allowed because officer drawing is a party, etc.
It is not a good cause of challenge to the panel or array of trial jurors, in
an action in a court of record, that the officer who drew them is a party to,
or interested in the action, or counsel or attorney for, or related to, a party.
§ 1178. No challenge allowed because officer notifying is a party,
etc. It is not a good cause of challenge to the panel or array of trial
jurors in an action in a court of record, that they were notified to attend by
an officer who is a part}'' to, or interested in, the action, or related to a party ;
unless it is alleged in the challenge, and is established, that one or more of
the jurors drawn were not notified, and that the omission was intentional.
§ 1179. Challenges in penal actions. In a penal action, in a court of
record, or not of record, to recover a sum of money, it is not a good cause of
challenge to a trial juror, or to an officer who notified the trial jurors, that
the juror or the officer is liable to pay taxes, in a city, town or county, which
may be benefited by the recovery.
§ 1180. Challenges how tried Exceptions to and review of the de
termination of the court, in reference thereto. [Amended bt Ch. 416
of 1877.] An objection to the qualifications of a juror is available only upon a
challenge. A challenge of a juror, or a challenge to the panel or array of
jurors, must be tried and determined by the court only. Either party may
except to the determination, and it may be reviewed, upon a question of fact,
or a question of law, or both, as where an issue of fact presented by the
pleadings is tried by the court ; except that where one or more exceptions
are taken to the rulings of the court, made after the jury is empaneled,
an exc eption to the determination of a challenge must be heard at the same
time ; and the case must contain the matter necessary to present it, upon
the facts, or the law, or both.
Discharge of jury failing- to agree.
Plaintiff cannot submit to nonsuit after jury retires.
In action to recover money, jury to assess damages.
How double, treble, or increased damages, found and awarded.
"When verdict to be taken, subject to the opinion of the court.
General and special verdict defined.
General or special verdict when rendered ; special finding with general
verdict.
§ 1181. Discharge of jury failing to agree. Where a jury is empan
elled to try an issue, to make an inquiry, or to assess damages, in an action
in a court of record, or not of record, or in a special proceeding before an
officer, if the jurors cannot agree, after being kept together, for such a time
as is deemed reasonable, by the court before which, or the officer before
whom they were empaneled, the court or officer may discharge them, and
issue a precept for a new jury, or order another jury to be drawn, as the
case requires ; and the same proceedings must be had before the new jury,
as if it was the jury first empaneled.
§ 1182. Plaintiff cannot submit to nonsuit after jury retires. It is
not necessary, in an action in a court of record, to call the plaintifff, when
the jurors are about to deliver their verdict ; and the plaintifff, in such an
action, cannot submit to a nonsuit after the cause has been committed to
the jury, to consider of the verdict.
§ 1183. An action to recover money, jury to assess damages. In an
action to recover a sum of money only, if a verdict is found, either in favor
of the plaintifff, or in favor of the defendant, who has set up a counterclaim
for a sum of money, the jury must assess the amount of damages. The jury
may also, under the direction of the court, assess the amount of the damages,
where the court directs judgment for the plaintifff, on the pleadings.
§ 1184. How double, treble or increased damages found and
awarded Where double, treble or other increased damages are given by
statute, single damages only are to be found by the jury, except in a case
where the statute prescribes a different rule. The sum so found must be
increased by the court, and judgment rendered accordingly.
§ 1185. When verdict to be taken, subject to the opinion of the
court. [Amended by Ch 542 op 1879.J Where, upon the trial of an issue
by a jury, the case presents only questions of law, the judge may direct the
jury to render a verdict, subject to the opinion of the court. Notwithstand
ing that such a verdict has been rendered, the judge holding the trial term
may, at the same term, set aside the verdict, and direct judgment to be
entered for either party, with like effect and in like manner, as if such a direc
tion had been given at the trial. An exception to such a direction may be
taken as prescribed in section nine hundred and ninety-four of this act.
§ 1186. General and special verdict defined A general verdict is one
by which the jury pronounces, generally, upon all or any of the issues in
favor of either the plaintifff, or of the defendant. A special jury is one by
which the jury finds the facts only, leaving the court to determine which
party is entitled to judgment thereupon.
§ 1187. General or special verdict, when rendered ; special finding
with general verdict In an action to recover a sum of money only, or real
property, or a chattel, the jury may render a general or a special verdict, in
its discretion. In any other action, except where one or more specific ques
tions of fact, stated under the direction of the court, are tried by a jury, the
court may direct the jury to find a special verdict, upon all or any of the
issues. Where the jury finds a general verdict, the court may instruct it to
find also specially, upon one or more questions of fact, stated in writing.
The special verdict or special finding must be in writing ; it must be filed
with the clerk, and entered in the minutes.
§ 1188. Special finding controls general verdict Where a special
finding is inconsistent with a general verdict, the former controls the latter,
and the court must render judgment accordingly.
§ 1189. Entry of verdict ; subsequent proceedings. [Amended by
Ch. 416 op 1877.] When the jury renders a verdict, or finds upon one or
more specific questions of fact, stated under the direction of the court, the
clerk must make an entry in his minutes, specifying the time and place of
the trial ; the names of the jurors and witnesses ; the verdict or the ques
tions and findings thereupon, as the case requires ; and the direction, if any,
which the court gives, with respect to the subsequent proceedings. Upon
the application of the party in whose favor a general verdict is rendered, the
clerk must enter judgment, in conformity to the verdict, unless a different
direction is given by the court, or it is otherwise specially prescribed by law.
Trials by jury to be as herein provided ; juries of part aliens abolished.
Venire not necessary.
Jurors not to l>e questioned for their verdict.
Penalty where juror takes gift, etc.
Embracery; penalty therefore.
Penalty for juror's non-attendance in special proceeding.
Sheriff, etc., to keep jury in special proceedings j penalty.
Notice of imposition of hne.
Special return of delinquency and fine to county court.
Collection or remission of fine.

§ 1190. Trials by jury to be as herein provided ; juries of part
aliens abolished. A trial by a jury, of an issue of fact, joined in a civil
action in a court of record, must be had as prescribed in this chapter ; ex
cept in a case where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law. An alien is
not entitled to a jury composed in part of aliens or strangers, in an action
or special proceeding, civil or criminal.
§ 1191. Venire not necessary. A venire to procure jurors cannot be
issued in a civil action, brought in a court of record, except as specially pre
scribed by law.
§ 1192. Jurors not to be questioned for their verdict A juror shall
not be questioned, and is not subject to an action, or other liability, civil or
criminal, for a verdict rendered by him, in an action in a court of record, or
not of record, or in a special proceeding before an officer, except by indict
ment, for corrupt conduct, in a case prescribed by law.
§ 1193. Penalty where juror takes gift, etc. A person, drawn or
notified to attend, as a trial juror, in an action in a court of record, or not of
record, or in a special proceeding before an officer, who takdB any thing to
render his verdict, or receives, from a party to the action or special pro
ceeding, a gift or gratuity, forfeits ten times the sum, or ten times the value
of that, which he took or received, to the party to the action, or special pro
ceeding, aggrieved thereby ; and is also liable to that party, for his damages
sustained thereby ; besides being subject to the punishment, prescribed
by law.
§ 1194. Embracery ; penalty therefore. An embraceor, who procures a
person, drawn or notified to attend, as a trial juror, to take gain or profit,
contrary to the last section, forfeits ten times the sum, or ten times the value
of that, which was so taken, to the party aggrieved thereby ; and is also
liable to that party for his damages sustained thereby ; besides being sub
ject to the punishment, prescribed by law.
§ 1195. Penalty for juror's non-attendance in special proceedings.
A person, who has been lawfully and personally notified to attend, as a trial
juror, to inquire into a matter or thing, or to hear and try a controversy, in
a special proceeding, pending before a judge, justice of the peace, commis
sioner, or other officer, and who willfully neglects to attend, as required by
the notice, may be fined by the officer, in a sum not exceeding twenty-five
dollars. But this section does not extend to a case, where special provision
is made by law, for punishing the default of a trial juror.
§ 1196. Sheriff, etc., to keep jury in special proceeding ; penalty.
A sheriff, constable, or other officer, who notified jurors to attend, in a case
specified in the last section, must, when directed by the officer, before whom
the special proceeding is pending, attend, and take charge of the jury. For
a willful neglect to obey such a direction, or for any misconduct, while at
tending the jury, by which a right or remedy of a party to the special pro
ceeding may be impaired or prejudiced, he must be fined, by that officer, in
a sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars.
§ 1197. Notice of imposition of fine. Where a fine is imposed, in a
case specified in the last two sections, written notice thereof must be served
upon the person fined, to the end that he may apply to the officer imposing
it, for the remission of the whole or a part thereof, upon proof that he had a
reasonable excuse for his neglect or misconduct, or that other good cause
exists for the remission.
§ 1198. Special return of delinquency and fine to county court. If,
within thirty days after the service of the notice, the fine has not been re
mitted by the officer imposing it, he must make a special return of the delin
quency or misconduct, for which the fine was imposed, and of the amount of
the fine, accompanied with proof, by affidavit of service of the notice speci
fied in the last section, to the next term of the county court of the county, in
which the delinquent resides.
1199. Collection or remission of fine. The county clerk must deliver
to the district-attorney, a copy of the return and of the affidavit at the time
when he delivers to him copies of the minutes of fines imposed by the
county court. The fine must be collected, or it may be remitted or reduced,
in the same manner as a fine imposed by the county court, upon a default
ing trial juror.
Judgment to be entered at a term held by one judge.
Judgment may be for or against any of the party.
When a several judgment may be taken.
Judgment for or against a married woman.
When judgment for plaintifff not to exceed judgment demanded.
Rate of damages.
Effect of judgment dismissing the complaint.
Judgment against a dead person.
Judgment to bear interest.
§ 1200. Definition of final judgment. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
A judgment is either interlocutory, or the final determination of the rights
of the parties in the action.
§ 1201. [Stricken out by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
§ 1202. When judgment may be entered. Judgment may be entered
in term or vacation.
§ 1203. Judgment to be entered at a term held by one judge. Judg
ment must be entered, in the first instance, pursuant to the direction of the
court, at a term held by one judge ; except where special provision is other
wise made by law.
• Stricken oat by Ch. 416 of 1877.
§ 1204. Judgment may be for or against any of the parties. Judg
ment may be given for or against one or more plaintifffs, and for or against
one or more defendants. It may determine the ultimate rights of the par
ties on the same side, as between themselves ; and it may grant, to a de
fendant, any affirmative relief, to which he is entitled.
§ 1205. When a several judgment may be taken. "Where the action
is against two or more defendants, and a several judgment is proper, the
court may, in its discretion, render judgment, or require the plaintifff to
take judgment, against one or more of the defendants; and direct that the
action be severed, and proceed against the others, as the only defendants
therein.
§ 1206. Judgment for or against a married woman. Judgment for or
against a married woman, may be rendered and enforced, in a court of
record, or not of record, as if she was single.
§ 1207. When judgment for plaintifff not to exceed judgment demanded. Where there is no answer, the judgment shall not be more favor
able to the plaintifff, than that demanded in the complaint. Where there is
an answer, the court may permit the plaintifff to take any judgment, con
sistent with the case made by the complaint, and embraced within the issue.
§ 1208. Rate of damages. Where either party is entitled to recover
damages, he may recover any rate of damages, which he might have here
tofore recovered, for the same cause of action.
§ 1209. Effect of judgment dismissing the complaint. [Amended bt
Ch. 416 op 1877.] A final judgment, dismissing the complaint, either before
or after a trial, rendered in an action hereafter commenced, does not pre
vent a new action for the same cause of action, unless it expressly declares,
or it appears by the judgment-roll, that it is rendered upon the merits.
§ 1210. Judgment against a dead person. Where a judgment for a
Bum of money, or directing the payment of money, is entered against a
party, after his death, in a case where it may be so taken, by special pro
vision of law, a memorandum of the party's death must be entered, with
the judgment, in the judgment-book, indorsed on the judgment-roll, and
noted on the margin of the docket of the judgment. Such a judgment does
not become a lien upon the real property, or chattels real, of the decedent ;
but it establishes a debt, to be paid in the course of administration.
§ 1211. Judgment to bear interest. A judgment for a sum of money,
rendered in a court of record, or not of record, or a judgment rendered in a
court of record, directing the payment of money, bears interest from the
time when it is entered. But where a judgment directs that money paid
out shall be refunded or repaid, the direction includes interest from the
time when the money was paid, unless the contrary is expressed.


Judgment by default, in certain actions on contract ; how taken.
Amount of judgment in such cases ; how determined.
Application to court for judgment by default ; when necessary.
Proceedings on such an application.
Application for judgment, in case of service by publication.
Attachment and undertaking for restitution, required in certain actions.
When judgment cannot be taken against infant.
When a defendant in default is entitled to notice.
When action may be severed, if issues of law and issues of fact presented.
Judgment how taken, after trial of issues of law and issues of fact, in the
same action.
Id. ; after trial of issue of law only.
Proceedings upon application under the last two sections.
Id. ; upon interlocutory judgment, affirmed on appeal to the general term.
Judgment, after trial by jury of specific questions of fact.
Id. ; after reference to determine specific questions of fact
Id. ; upon motion for new trial, heard at general term.
Id. ; upon trial by court or referee of the whole issue of fact.
In matrimonial causes, judgment can be rendered only by the court.
Pinal judgment upon decision or report awarding' interlocutory judgment,
etc.
Id. j how final judgment entered and settled in certain cases.
Interlocutory reference or inquisition ; how reviewed.
Motion for judgment upon a special verdict, etc.
Id. ; upon verdict subject to opinion of court
Interest on verdict, etc., to be included in recovery.
Clerk to keep judgment-book; judgment to be entered therein.
Judgment-roll to be filed ; of what it consists.
Id. ; by whom prepared.
Time of filing judgment-roll to be noted.
When a judgment may be enforced by execution.
When a judgment may be enforced by punishment for disobeying it.
Real property ; how sold. Effect of conveyance.
Security upon sale by referee.
Conveyance to state name of party.

8 1212. Judgment by default in certain actions on contract ; how
taken. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877 and by Ch. 542 of 1879.] In an
action specified in section four hundred and twenty of this act, where the
summons was personally served upon the defendant, and a copy of the com
plaint, or a notice stating the sum of money for which judgmentwill .be
taken, was served with the summons ; or where the defendant has appeared,
but has made default in pleading, the plaintifff may take judgment by
default, as follows :
1. If the defendant has made default in appearing, the plaintifff must file
proof of the service of the summons, and of a copy of the complaint or the
notice, and also proof, by affidavit, that the defendant has not appeared ;
whereupon the clerk must enter final judgment in his favor.
2. If the defendant has seasonably appeared, but has made default in
pleading, the plaintifff must file proof of the service of the summons and of
the appearance, or of the appearance only, and also proof, by affidavit, of the
default ; whereupon the clerk must enter final judgment in his favor.
If the defendant has made default in appearing or pleading, and the case
is not one where the clerk can enter final judgment, as prescribed in either
of the foregoing subdivisions of this section, the plaintifff must apply to the
court for judgment, as prescribed in section twelve hundred and fourteen of
this act.
§ 1213. Amount of judgment in such cases ; how determined. Where
final judgment may be entered by the clerk, as prescribed in the last sec
tion, the amount thereof must be determined as follows :
1. If the complaint is verified, the judgment must be entered for the sum,
for which the complaint demands judgment ; or, at the plaintifffs option, for
a smaller sum ; and if a computation of interest is necessary, it may be
made by the clerk.
2. If the complaint is not verified, the clerk must assess the amount due
to the plaintifff, by computing the sum due upon an instrument for the pay
ment of money only, the non-payment of which constitutes a cause of action,
stated in the complaint ; and by ascertaining, by the examination of the
plaintifff, upon oath, or by other competent proof, the amount due to him for
any other cause of action, stated in the complaint. If an instrument speci
fied in this subdivision, has been lost, so that it cannot be produced to the
clerk, he must take proof its loss and of its contents. Either party may
require the clerk to reduce to writing and file the assessment, and the oral
proof, if any, taken thereupon.
§ 1214. Application to court for judgment by default ; when neces
sary. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where the summons was person
ally served upon the defendant, within the State, and he has made default
in appearing, or where the defendant has appeared, but has made default in
pleading ; and the case is not one where the clerk can enter final judgment,
as prescribed in the last two sections, the plaintifff must apply to the court for
judgment. Upon the application he must file, if the default was in appear
ing, proof of service of the summons ; or, if the default was in pleading,
proof of appearance, and also if a copy of the complaint was demanded
proof of service thereof, upon the defendant's attorney; and in either
case, proof by affidavit, of the default which entitles him to judgment.
§ 1215. Proceedings on such an application. [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877.J The court must thereupon render the judgment, to which the
plaintifff is entitled. It may, without a jury or with a jury, if one is present
in court, make a computation or assessment, or take an account, or proof of
a fact, for the purpose of enabling it to render the judgment, or to carry it
into effect ; or it may, in its discretion, direct a reference, or a writ of inquiry,
for either purpose ; except that where the action is brought to recover dam
ages for a personal injury, or an injury to property, the damages must be
ascertained by means of a writ of inquiry. Where a reference or a writ of
inquiry is directed the court may direct, that the report or inquisition be
returned to the court for its further action ; or it may, in its discretion,
except where special provision is otherwise made by law, omit that direc
tion; in which case, final judgment may be entered by the clerk, in accord
ance with the report of the referee, or for the damages ascertained by the
inquisition, without any further application.
§ 1216. Application for judgment, in case of service by publication,
etc. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Where the summons was served
upon the defendant, without the State, or otherwise than personally, if the
defendant does not demand a copy of the complaint or plead as the case
requires, within twenty days after the service is complete, the plaintifff may
apply to the court, for the judgment demanded in the complaint. Upon such
an application he must, file proof that the service is complete, and proof by
affidavit of the defendant's default. The court must require proof of the
cause of action, set forth in the complaint, to be made, either before the court,
or before a referee, appointed for that purpose. If the defendant is a non
resident, or a foreign corporation, the court must require the plaintifff, or hi&
agent, or attorney, to be examined on oath, respecting any payments to the
plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on account of his demand, and must ren
der the judgment, to which the plaintifff is entitled. But before rendering
judgment, the court may, in any case, in its discretion, require the plaintifff
to file an undertaking, to abide the order of the court, touching the restitu
tion of any estate or effects which may be directed by the judgment to be
transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any money that may be col
lected under or by virtue of the judgment, in case the defendant or his
representative applies and is admitted to defend the action, and succeeds in
his defense.
§ 1217. Attachment and undertaking for restitution, required in
certain actions. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] A judgment shall not be
rendered for a sum of money only, upon an application made pursuant to
the last section, except in an action specified in section 635 of this act.
Where the defendant is a non-resident, or a foreign corporation, and has not
appeared, the plaintifff, upon the application for judgment in such an action,
must produce and file the following papers :
1. Proof, by affidavit, that a warrant of attachment, granted in the action
has been levied upon property of the defendant.
2. A description of the property, so attached, verified by affidavit ; with a
statement of the value thereof, according to the inventory.
3. The undertaking mentioned in section 1216, if one has been required.
§ 1218. When judgment cannot be taken against infant [Amended
by Ch. 542 op 1879.] A judgment by default shall not be taken against an
infant defendant, until twenty days have expired since the appointment of
a guardian ad litem for hini.
§ 1219. When a defendant is entitled to notice. [Amended by Ch. 542
op 1879.] A defendant, against whom judgment is taken, pursuant to the
foregoing sections of this article, is entitled to notice as follows :
1. If he has appeared generally, but has made default in pleading, he is
entitled to at least five days' notice of the time and place of an assessment
by the clerk, and to at least eight days' notice of the time and place of an
application to the court for judgment.
2. In a case where an application for judgment must be made to the court,
the defendant may serve upon the plaintifff's attorney, at any time before
the application for judgment, a written demand of notice of the execution
of any reference, or writ of inquiry, which may be granted upon the appli
cation. Such a demand is not an appearance in the action. It must be
subscribed by the defendant, iu person, or by an attorney or agent, who
must add to his signature his office address, with the particulars, prescribed
in section four hundred and seventeen of this act, concerning the office
address of the plaintifff's attorney. Thereupon at least five days' notice of
the time and place of the execution of the reference, or writ of inquiry, must
be given to the defendant, by service thereof upon the person, whose name
is subscribed to the demand, in the manner prescribed in this act, for service
of a paper upon an attorney in an action.
§ 1220. When action may be severed, if issues of law and issues of
fact presented. Where an issue of law and an issue of fact arise, with
respect to different causes of action, set forth in the complaint, and final
judgment can be taken, with respect to one or more of the causes of action,
without prejudice to either party in maintaining the action, or a defense or
counterclaim, with respect to the other causes of action, or in the recovery of
final judgment upon the whole issue, the court may, in its discretion, and at
any stage of the action, direct that the action be divided into two or more
actions, as the case requires.
§ 1221. Judgment how taken, after trial of issues of law and issues
of fact, in the same action. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where one
or more issues of law, and one or more issues of fact, arise in the same action,
and all the issues have been tried, final judgment upon the whole issue must
be taken as follows :
ENTERING A JUDGMENT.
1. "Where an application must be made to the court, for judgment upon
the issue last tried, the application must be for judgment, upon the whole
issue ; and judgment must be rendered accordingly.
2. Where the action is triable by a jury, and the issue last tried is tried
at a term of the court, the application for judgment, upon the whole issue,
may be entertained, in the discretion of the court, at that term, and with or
without notice ; if not so entertained, it must be heard as a motion.
3. Where the issue last tried is tried before a referee, his report must
award the proper judgment upon the whole issue, unless otherwise pre
scribed in the order of reference.
§ 1222. Id. ; after trial of issue of law only. [Amended bt Ch. 41(3 op
1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] Final judgment upon an issue of law, where
no issue of fact remains to be tried, and final judgment has not been directed
as precribed* in section ten hundred and twenty-one of this act, may be
entered upon application to the court, or by the clerk in an action specified
in section four hundred and twenty of this act.
§ 1223. Proceedings upon application under the last two sections.
[Amended by Ch. 416 of liS77.] Upon an application, by either party, to
the court, for final judgment, after the decision of an issue of law, as pre
scribed in the last two sections, the court has the powers specified in section
1215 of this act, upon an application for judgment by the plaintifff. Where
final judgment may be awarded in a referee's report, as prescribed in
section twelve hundred and twenty-one of this act, the referee may make
a computation, or an assessment, or take an account, or proof of a fact, for
the purpose of enabling him to award the proper judgment, or enabling
the court to carry it into effect ; and he may ascertain and fix the damages,
as a jury may do, upon the execution of a writ of inquiry.
§ 1224. Id ; upon interlocutory judgment, etc., affirmed at general
term. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] When an order or judgment is
wholly or partly affirmed upon an appeal to the general term, and no issue
of fact remains to be tried, the general term may, in its discretion, render
final judgment, unless it permits the appellant to amend or plead over.
§ 1225. Judgment after trial by jury of specific questions of fact
In an action triable by the court, where one or more specific questions of fact,
arising upon the issues, have been tried by a jury, judgment may be taken,
upon the application of either party, as follows :
1. If all the issues of fact in the action are determined by the findings of
the jury, or the remaining issues of fact have been determined by the
decision of the court, or the report of a referee, an application for judgment,
upon the whole issue, may be made as upon a motion.
2. If one or more issues of fact remain to be tried, judgment may be ren
dered upon the whole issue, at the term of the court where, or by direction
of the referee by whom, they are tried.
§ 1226. Id ; after reference to determine specific questions of fact.
Where a reference has been made, to report upon one or more specific ques
tions of fact, arising upon the issue, and the remaining issues have been
tried, judgment must be taken, upon the application of either party, as pre
scribed in section 1221 of this act.
§ 1227. Id; upon motion for new trial, heard at general term Where
amotion for a new trial, made at the first instance at a general term is denied,
judgment may be taken, as if the motion for anew trial had not been made,
• So in the original.
after the expiration of four days from the entry of the order, and the service,
upon the attorney for the adverse party, of a copy thereof, and notice of the
entry; but not before.
§ 1228. Id. ; upon trial by court or referee of the whole issue of fact
[Amended by Ch. 542 op lb79.] Where the whole issue is an issue of fact,
which was tried by a referee, the report stands as a decision of the court.
Except where it is otherwise expressly prescribed by law, judgment upon
such a report, or upon the decision of the court, upon the trial of the whole
issue of fact without a jury, may be entered by the clerk, as directed therein,
upon filing the decision or report.
§ 1229. In matrimonial causes, judgment can be rendered only by
the court. In an action to annul a marriage, or for a divorce or separation,
judgment cannot be taken, of course, upon a referee's report, as prescribed
in the last section, or where the reference was made, as prescribed in section
1215 of this act. Where a reference is made in such an action, the testi
mony and the other proceedings upon the reference, must be certified to
the court, by the referee, with his report ; and judgment must be rendered
by the court.
§ 1230. Final judgment upon decision or report awarding interlocutoryjudgment, etc. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] In a case not provided
for in the foregoing sections of this article, where the decision, upon a trial
by the court, without jury, or the report, upon a trial by a referee directs an
interlocutory judgment to be entered, and the party afterward becomes enti
tled to a final judgment, an application for the latter may be made, as upon
a motion. And where a judgment requires the appointment of a referee, to
do any act thereunder, the referee must be appointed by the judgment or by
the court, upon motion, except as otherwise prescribed in the next section.
§ 1231. Id ; how final judgment entered and settled in certain cases.
In an action triable by the court, an interlocutory judgment rendered upon
a default in appearing or pleading, or pursuant to the direction contained in
a decision or report, may state the substance of the final judgment, to which
the party will be entitled. It may also direct, that the final judgment be
settled by a judge, or a referee. In that case, final judgment shall not be
entered until a settlement thereof, subscribed by the judge or referee, is
filed. Where an interlocutory judgment awards costs, they may be awarded
generally, without specifying the amount thereof. Where the final judg
ment is directed to be settled, and the costs have not been taxed, when the
settlement thereof is filed, a blank for the amount of the costs must be left
in the settlement ; and the costs must be taxed, and the blank filled up ac
cordingly, by the clerk, when the final judgment is entered.
§ 1232. Interlocutory reference or inquisition ; how reviewed. Where
a reference, or a writ of inquiry, directed as prescribed in section 1015, or
section 1215, of this act, has been executed, either party may apply for an
order, directing a new hearing, or a new writ of inquiry, upon proof, by
affidavit, that error was committed, to his prejudice, upon the hearing, or in
the report, or upon the execution of the writ or in the inquisition. In a
proper case, the application may be granted, after judgment has been
entered. In that case, the judgment may be set aside, either then or after
the new hearing, or the execution of the new writ, as justice requires.
§ 1233. Motion for judgment upon a special verdict, etc. A motion*
for judgment, upon a special verdict, may be made by either party ; and
must, in the first instance, be heard and decided, at a term held bv one
judge.
§ 1234. Id ; upon verdict subject to opinion of court. A motion for
judgment, upon a verdict subject to the opinion of the court, may be made
by either party ; and must be heard and decided at the general term.
§ 1235. Interest on verdict, etc., to be included in recovery. Where
final judgment is rendered for a sum of money, awarded by a verdict, report
or decision, interest upon the sum awarded, from the time when the verdict
was rendered, or the report or decision was made, to the time of entering
judgment, must be computed by the clerk, added to the sum awarded, and
included in the amount of the judgment.
§ 1236. Clerk to keep judgment-book ; judgment to be entered
therein. The clerk must keep, among the records of the court, a book for
the entry of judgments, styled the "judgment-book." Each interlocutory
or final judgment must be entered in the judgment-book, and attested by
the signature of the clerk; who must note, in the margin of the entry, the
day and year of entering it. It must specify clearly the relief granted, or
other determination of the action, or of the issue.
§ 1237. Judgment-roll to be filed ; of what it consists. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] The clerk upon entering final
judgment, must immediately file the judgment-roll; which must consist,
except where special provision is otherwise made by law of the following
papers : the summons ; the pleadings, or copies thereof ; the final judgment,
and the interlocutory judgment, if any, or copies thereof ; and each paper
on file, or a copy thereof, and a copy of each order, which in any way
involves the merits, or necessarily affects the judgment. If judgment is
taken by default, the judgment-roll must also contain the papers required to
be filed, upon so taking judgment, or upon making application therefore;
together with any report, decision or writ of'inquiry, and return thereto.
If judgment is taken after a trial, the judgment-roll must contain the ver
dict, report, or decision ; each offer, if any, made as prescribed in this act ;
and the exceptions or case then on file.
§1238. Id; by whom prepared. The judgment-roll must be prepared,
and furnished to the clerk, by the attorney for the party, at whose instance
the final judgment is entered ; except that the clerk must attach thereto the
necessary original papers, on file. But the clerk may, at his option, make
up the entire judgment-roll.
§ 1239. Time of filing judgment-roll to be noted The clerk must
make a minute, upon the back of each judgment-roll, filed in his office, of the
time of filing it, specifying the year, month, day, hour, and minute. A pro
ceeding to enforce or collect a final judgment, cannot be taken, until the
judgment-roll is filed.
§ 1240. When a judgment may be enforced by execution In either
of the following cases, a final judgment may be enforced by execution :
1. Where it is for a sum of money, in favor of either party; or directs the
payment of a sum of money.
2. Where it is in favor of the plaintifff, in an action of ejectment, or for
dower.
3. In an action to recover a chattel, where it awards a chattel to either
party.
§ 1241. When a judgment may be enforced by punishment for dis
obeying it. In either of the following cases, a judgment may be enforced,
by serving a certified copy thereof, upon the party against whom it is ren
dered, or the officer or person, who is required thereby, or by law, to obey it ;
and if he refuses or willfully neglects to obey it, by punishing him for a con
tempt of the court.
1. Where the judgment ia final, and cannot be enforced by execution, as
prescribed in the last section.
2. Where the judgment is final, and part of it cannot be enforced by exe
cution, as prescribed in the last section ; in which case the part or parts,
which cannot be so enforced, may be enforced as prescribed in this section.
3. Where the judgment is interlocutory, and requires a party to do, or
to refrain from doing, an act ; except in a case specified in the next sub
division.
4. Where the judgment requires the payment of money into court, or to
an officer of the court ; except where the money is due upon a contract,
express or implied, or as damages for non-performance of a contract. In a
case specified in this subdivision, if the judgment is final, it may be
enforced as prescribed in this section, either simultaneously with, or before
or after the issuing of a'n execution thereupon, as the court directs.
§ 1242. Real property ; how sold. Effect of conveyance. [Amended
by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Except where special provision is otherwise made by
law, real property adjudged to be sold, must be sold in the county where
it is situated, by the sheriff of the county, or by a referee, appointed by
the court for that purpose, who must execute a conveyance to the purchaser.
The conveyance is effectual, to pass the right, title, or interest of a party
adjudged to be sold ; but nothing contained in this section shall be deemed,
to repeal or modify the provisions of any law specially regulating the sale of
real property under a judgment or decree of any court, in any particular
county of the State.
§ 1243. Security upon sale by referee. [Amended by Ch. 416 of
1877.] Where a referee is appointed by the court, to sell real property, the
court may provide for his giving such security, as the court deems just, for
the proper application of the money received upon the sale ; or for the pay
ment thereof by the purchaser, directly to the person or persons entitled
thereto, or their attorneys.
§ 1244. Conveyance to state name of party. [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877 and by Ch. 542 op 1879.] A conveyance of property sold by virtue
of an execution, or sold pursuant to a judgment, which specifies the par
ticular party or parties, whose right, title or interest is directed to be sold,
must distinctly state, in the granting clause thereof, whose rierrit, title or
interest was sold, and is conveyed, without naming, in that clause, any of
the other parties to the action ; otherwise, the purchaser is not bound to
accept the conveyance, and the officer executing it is liable for the damages,
which the purchaser sustains by the omission, wheth * he accepts or refuses
to accept it.
ARTICLE THIRD.
docketing a judgment ; effect thereof as a lleif upon real property j suspending
amd Discharging the Lien ; Satisfaction and Assignment of a Judgment.
Section 1245.
Certain clerks to keep docket-books.
Id. ; to docket judgments.
Filing1 transcripts, and docketing judgments thereon.
Penalty for clerk's neglect.
• So in the original .
§ 1246. Id. ; to docket judgments. Each clerk, specified in the last
section, must, when he files a judgment-roll, upon a judgment, rendered in
a court of which he is clerk, docket the judgment, by entering, in the proper
docket-book, the following particulars, under the initial letter of the sur
name of the judgment-debtor, in its alphabetical order :
1. The name, at length, of the judgment-debtor; and also his residence,
title, and trade or profession, if any of them are stated in the judgment.
2. The name of the party, in whose favor the judgment was rendered.
3. The sum recovered or directed to be paid, in figures.
4. The day, hour, and minute, when the judgment-roll was filed,
5. The day, hour, and minute, when the judgment was docketed in his
office.
6. The court in which the judgment was rendered, and if it was rendered
in the supreme court, the county where the judgment-roll is filed.
7. The name of the attorney for the party recovering the judgment.
If there are two or more judgment-debtors, those entries must be repeated,
under the initial letter of the surname of each.
§ 1247. Filing transcripts, and docketing judgments thereon, A
clerk, with whom a judgment-roll is filed, upon a judgment docketed as
prescribed in the last section, must furnish to any person applying therefore,
and paying the fees allowed by law, one or more transcripts of the docket
of the judgment, attested by his signature. A county clerk to whom such
a transcript is presented, must, upon payment of his fees therefore, imme
diately file it, and docket the judgment, as prescribed in the last section, in
the appropriate docket-book, kept in his office.
• stricken out by Ch. 642 of 1879.
§ 1248. Penalty for clerk's neglect. A clerk who omits, as soon as
practicable, to docket a j udgment required to be docketed, or to furnish a
transcript of a judgment, so docketed in his office, as prescribed in the last
two sections, forfeits, to the person aggrieved, two hundred and fifty dollars,
in addition to the damages sustained by reason of the omission.
§ 1249. Dockets to be public. A docket-book, kept by a clerk, must be
kept open, during the business hours fixed bv law, for search and examina
tion by any person.
§ 1250. Judgment not to be a lien until docketed. A judgment,
required to be docketed, as prescribed in this article, neither affects real
property or chattels real, nor is entitled to a preference, until the judgmentroll is filed, and the judgment docketed.
§ 1251. Real property bound for ten years by a judgment thus
docketed. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by law, a judgment
here;ut,er rendered, which is docketed iu a county clerk's office, as prescribed
in this article, binds, and is a charge upon, for ten years after filing the
judgment-roll, and no longer, the real property and chattels real in that
county, which the judgment debtor has at the time of so docketing it, or
which he acquires at any time afterwards, and within the ten years.
§ 1252. Real property may be levied upon after ten years. When
ten years after filing the judgment-roll have expired, real property or a chat
tel real, which the judgment debtor, or real property which a person, deriv
ing his right or title thereto, as the heir or devisee of the judgment debtor,
then has, in any county, may be levied upon by virtue of an execution
against property, issued to the sheriff of that county, upon a judgment here
after rendered, by filing, with the clerk of that county, a notice, subscribed
by the sheriff, describing the judgment, the execution, and the property
levied upon ; and, if the interest levied upon is that of an heir or devisee,
specifying that fact, and the name of the heir or devisee. The notice must
be recorded and indexed by the clerk, as a notice of the pendency of an
action. For that purpose, the judgment debtor, or his heir or devisee,
named in the notice, is regarded as a party to an action. The judgment
binds, and becomes a charge upon, the right and title thus levied upon, of
the judgment debtor, or of his heir or devisee, as the case may be, only
from the time of recording and indexing the notice, and until the execution
is set aside or returned.
§ 1253. Land held under contract not bound by judgment The
interest of a person holding a contract for the purchase of real property, is
not bound by the docketing of a judgment ; and cannot be levied upon or
sold, by virtue of an execution issued upon a judgment.
§ 1254. Preference of mortgages for purchase-money. Where real
property is sold and conveyed, and, at the same time, a mortgage thereupon
is given by the purchaser, to secure the payment of the whole or a part of
the purchase- money, the lien of the mortgage, upon that real property, is
superior to the lien of a previous judgment against the purchaser.
§ 1255. Certain time not to be included in the ten years. The time
during which a judgment creditor is stayed, by an injunction or other order,
or by the operation of an appeal, or by express provision of law, from enforc
ing a judgment, is not a part of the ten years to which the lien of a judg
ment is limited by this article. But this section does not extend the time of
the lien, as against a purchaser, creditor, or mortgagee in good faith.
251
§ 1256. Court may order lien of judgment to be suspended upon
appeal Where an appeal from a judgment has been perfected, and an
undertaking has been given, sufficient to entitle the appellant to a stay of
the execution of the judgment, without an order for that purpose, the court
in which the judgment was recovered, may, in its discretion and upon such
terms as justice requires, make an order, upon notice to the attorney for the
respondent, and to the sureties in the undertaking, exempting from the Hen
of the judgment, as against judgment creditors, and purchasers and mort
gagees in good faith, the real property or chattels real, upon which the judg
ment is a lien, or a portion thereof, specifically described in the order. If
all the property, subject to the lien, is so exempted, the order must direct
the clerk in whose office the judgment-roll is filed, to make an entry, on the
docket of the judgment, in each place where it appears in the docket-book,
substantially as follows : " Lieu suspended upon appeal. See order entered ;"
adding the proper date. If a portion only is exempted, the order must
direct the clerk to make, in like manner; an entry, substantially as follows :
" Lien partially suspended upon appeal. See order entered;" adding the
proper date. The clerk must, when he files the motion papers, and enters
the order, make the entry or entries in the docket book, as required by the
order.
§ 1257. From what time order suspends the lien. Where an order is
made, as prescribed in the last section, by the supreme court or by a county
court, it operates as a suspension of the lien upon property situated in the
county, where the judgment-roll is filed, from the time when the order is
entered, and the proper entry made in the docket-book. If the property
exempted is situated in another county, or if the order was made by a court,
other than the supreme court or a county court, the order operates as a sus
pension, from the time, when the proper entry is made in the docket-book,
kept by the clerk of that county, as prescribed in the next section.
§ 1258. How lien suspended in any other county. The clerk, with
whom the order is entered, must, upon payment of his fees therefore, furnish
to the party who obtained the order, one or more transcripts, attested by his
signature, of the docket of the judgment, including the entry made upon the
docket. A county clerk, in whose office the judgment is docketed, must,
upon payment of his fees therefore, immediately file such a transcript; and
make an entry upon the docket of the judgment, in each place where it
appears in his docket-book, substantially as follows : " Lion suspended," or,
" Lieu partially suspended," according to the entry upon the original docket,
and also, "See transcript filed;" adding the proper date.
§ 1259. When and how lien restored. At any time after a judgment,
which has ceased to be a lien, as prescribed in the last three sections, is
affirmed, or the appeal therefrom is dismissed, the lien thereof may be
restored, as follows :
1. The clerk, in whose office the judgment of affirmance, or the order dis
missing the appeal, is entered, must, upon the request of the judgment cred
itor, docket the judgment anew, as it was originally docketed, but in the
order of priority of the new docket ; and he must write upon the new docket,
the words, " Lien restored by redocket ;" adding the date of redocketing.
2. A transcript of the new docket must be furnished to a county clerk, in
whose office an entry of the suspension of the lien has been made, as pre
scribed in the last two sections ; and thereupon the judgment must be dock
eted by him anew, in the order of the priority of the new docket. The clerk
who so redockets the judgment, must make an entry upon the new docket,
substantially as follows : " Lien restored by redocket. See transcript filed ; "
adding the date of redocketing in his county.
The lien of the judgment is thereupon restored, for the unexpired period
thereof, as if the order had not been made; but with like effect only, as
against judgment creditors, purchasers, and mortgagees in good faith, as if
the judgment had then been first docketed.
§ 1260. Docket of judgment, how cancelled. The docket of a judg
ment must be cancelled and discharged by the clerk, in whose office the
judgment-roll is filed, upon filing with him a satisfaction-piece, describing
the judgment, and executed as follows :
1. Except as otherwise prescribed in the next subdivision, the satisfac
tion-piece must be executed by the party, in whose favor the judgment was
rendered, or his executor or administrator; or, if it is made within two
years after the filing of the judgment-roll, by the attorney of record of the
party. But where the authority of the attorney has been revoked, a satis
faction by him is not conclusive, against the person entitled to enforce the
judgment, in respect to a person, who had actual notice of the revocation,
before a payment on the judgment was made, or a purchase of property
bound thereby was effected.
2. If an assignment of the judgment, executed by the party in whose
favor it was rendered, or his executor or administrator, has been filed in the
clerk's office, the satisfaction-piece must be executed by the person, who
appears, from the assignment, or from the last of the subsequent assign
ments, if any, so filed, showing a continuous chain of title, to be the owner
of the judgment ; or by his executor or administrator.
3. If the satisfaction-piece is executed by an attorney in fact, in behalf
of a person authorized to execute it, other than the attorney of record, an
instrument, containing a power to acknowledge the satisfaction, must be
filed with the satisfaction-piece, unless it has been recorded in the proper
book for recording deeds, in that or another county ; in which case, the
satisfaction-piece must refer to the record, and the clerk may, for his own
indemnity, require evidence of a record remaining in another office.
The execution of each satisfaction-piece or power of attorney must be
acknowledged, before the clerk, or his deputy, and certified by him there
upon ; or it must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner
as a deed to be recorded in the county where it is filed.
§ 1261. Satisfaction-piece to be given on payment of judgment.
The person, entitled to enforce a judgment, must execute, and acknowledge
before the proper officer, a satisfaction-piece thereof, at the request of the
judgment debtor, or of a person interested in property bound by the judg
ment, upon presentation of a satisfaction-piece, and payment of the sum
due upon the judgment, and the fees allowed by law for taking the acknowl
edgment of a deed.
§ 1262. Assignor must acknowledge assignment A person, who has
heretofore executed, or hereafter executes, a written assignment of a judg
ment, owned by him, without acknowledging the executed* thereof, before
an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment of a deed, must so
acknowledge it, at the request of his assignee, or of a subsequent assignee
thereof, or of the judgment debtor, upon presentation of the assignment,
and payment of the officer's fees.
§ 1263. Assignee who is a receiver, etc., may file notice. A resident
of the State, or a person having an office within the State, for the regular
• So in the original.
transaction of business, in person, who becomes the owner of a judgment, by
virtue of a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or of an appoint
ment as a receiver, or trustee or assignee of an insolvent debtor or bankrupt,
may file with the clerk, in whose office the judgment-roll is filed, a notice
of the assignment, or of his appointment, and of his ownership of the
judgment. The notice must be subscribed by him, adding to his signature
his place of residence, and also, if he resides without the State, his office
address. A notice so filed has the same force and effect, for the purposes
of this article, as if it was an assignment of the judgment.
§ 1264. Entry in docket, upon return of execution satisfied. Where
an execution is returned, wholly or partly satisfied, the clerk must make an
entry of the satisfaction, or partial satisfaction, in the docket of the judg
ment, upon which it was issued. Thereupon the judgment is deemed satis
fied, to the extent of the amount returned as collected, unless the return is
vacated by the court.
§ 1265. Id ; where execution returned unsatisfied Where an execu
tion is returned wholly unsatisfied, the clerk must immediately make, in
the docket of the judgment, upon which it was issued, an entry of the fact,
stating the time when the execution was returned.
§ 1266. Sheriff to give copy of satisfied execution ; clerk to enter
satisfaction A sheriff, upon being paid the full amount due upon an
execution in his hands, must immediately indorse thereupon a return of
satisfaction thereof. He must also deliver to the person making the pay
ment, upon the latter's request, and payment of the fees allowed by law
therefore, a certified copy of the execution, and of the return of satisfaction
thereupon ; which may be filed with the clerk of the same county, who must
thereupon cancel and discharge the docket of the judgment, as if the judg
ment-roll was filed in his office, and the execution was returned to him, as
satisfied. But this section does not exonerate the sheriff, from his duty to
return the execution, to tho clerk with whom the judgment-roll is filed.
§ 1267. Docket ; when to be discharged and cancelled The clerk
of a county, with whom a judgment has been docketed, must cancel and
discharge the docket thereof, upon the filing, with him, of a certificate of
the clerk, with whom the judgment-roll is filed, showing that the judgment
has been reversed, vacated, or satisfied of record ; or the certificate of the
clerk of the county, with whom a copy of an execution, and of a return of
satisfaction thereupon, have been filed, as prescribed in the last section,
showing that they have been so filed, and the docket cancelled and dis
charged accordingly.
§ 1268. Discharge of a judgment against a bankrupt At any time
after two years have elapsed, since a bankrupt was discharged from his
debts, pursuant to the acts of Congress relating to bankruptcy, he may
apply, upon proof of his discharge, to the court in which a judgment was
rendered against him, for an order, directing the judgment to be cancelled
and discharged of record. If it appears that he has been discharged from
the payment of that judgment, an order must be made accordingly ; and
thereupon the clerk must cancel and discharge the docket, thereof, as if the
proper satisfaction-piece of the judgment was filed. Notice of the applica
tion, accompanied with copies of the papers upon which it is made, must be
given to the judgment creditor, unless his written consent to the granting
of the order, with satisfactory proof of the execution thereof, and, if he is
not the party in whose favor the judgment was rendered, that he is the
•wner thereof, is presented to the court, upon the application.
§ 1269. Power of courts respecting docket A court of record has the
same power and jurisdiction, concerning the docket of its judgments, kept
by a county clerk, which it has concerning the docket kept by its own clerk.
It may direct that such a docket be amended ; or that its judgment, there
docketed, be docketed nunc pro tunc.
§ 1270. Clerk to file and note assignment of judgment. Upon the
presentation to the clerk of a court of record, of an assignment of a judg
ment, entered in his office, executed by a person entitled to satisfy the judg
ment, as prescribed in section 1260 of this act, and otherwise executed as
prescribed in that section, with respect to a satisfaction-piece, and upon
payment of the fees, allowed by law, for tiling a transcript, and docketing
ajudgment thereupon, the clerk must forthwith file the assignment in his
office, and make, upon the docket of the judgment, an entry of the fact, and
of the day of filing ; or, if he keeps a separate book for the entry of assign
ments of judgments, an entry, referring to the page of the book, where the
filing of the assignment is noted.
§ 1271. [Stricken out by Ch. 542 of 1879.]
§ 1272. To what judgments and executions this article applies.
This article applies only to a judgment, wholly or partly for a sum of money,
or directing the payment of a sum of money ; and to an execution issued
upon such a judgment.

Judgment may be confessed. When married women may confess.
Statement ; form thereof.
Statement to be filed, and judgment entered.
Judgment-roll ; docketing and enforcing the judgment.
Execution, where the judgment is not all due.
Confession by one of several joint debtors.

§ 1273. Judgment may be confessed When married woman may
confess. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] A judgment by confession may
be entered, without action, either for money due or to become due, or to
secure a person against contingent liability in behalf of the defendant, or
both, as prescribed in this- article. A married woman may confess such a
judgment, if the debt was contracted for the benefit of her separate estate,
or in the course of any trade or other business carried on by her on her sole
and separate account.
tl274. Statement ; form thereof A written statement must be made,
signed by the defendant, to the following effect :
1. It must state the sura, for which judgment may be entered and author
ize the entry of judgment therefore.
2. If the judgment to be confessed is for money due or to become due, it
must state concisely the facts, out of which the debt arose ; and must show,
that the sum confessed therefore is justly due, or to become due.
3. If the judgment to be confessed is for the purpose of securing the plain
tiff, against a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts, consti
tuting the liability ; and must show, that the sum confessed therefore does
not exceed the amount of the liability.
The statement must be verified by the oath of the defendant, to the effect,
that the matters of fact therein set forth are true.
§ 1275. Statement to be filed, and judgment entered. At any time
within three years after the statement is verified, it may be filed with a
county clerk, or with the clerk of a superior city court, or, where the sum for
which judgment is confessed, does not exceed two thousand dollars, exclusive
of interest from the time of making the statement, with the clerk of the
marine court of the city of New York. Thereupon the clerk must enter, in
like manner as a judgment is entered in an action, a judgment for the sum
confessed, with costs 'which he must tax, to the amount of fifteen dollars, be
sides disbursements taxable in an action. If the statement is filed with a
county clerk, the judgment must be entered in the supreme court ; if it is filed
with the clerk of another court specified in this section, the judgment must
be entered in the court of which he is clerk. But a judgment shall not be
entered upon such a statement, after the defendant's death.
§ 1276. Judgment-roll; docketing and enforcing the judgment
[Amended by Ch. 542 of 1879.] The clerk immediately after entering the
Judgment must attach togather* and file the statement, as verified, and a
copy of the judgment; which constitute the judgment-roll. The judgment
may be docketed, and enforced against property, in the same manner, and
with the same effect, as a judgment in an action, rendered in the same court;
and each provision of law, relating to a judgment in an action and the pro
ceedings subsequent thereto, apply to a judgment thus taken.
§ 1277. Execution, where the judgment is not all due. Where the
debt, for which the judgment ia rendered, is not all due, execution may be
issued, upon the judgment for the collection of the sum which has become
due. The execution must be in the form prescribed by law, for an execution
upon a judgment for the full amount recovered; but tne person, whose name
is subscribed to it, must indorse thereupon a direction to the sheriff, to collect
only the sum due, stating the amount thereof, with interest thereon, and the
costs of the judgment. Notwithstanding the issuing and collection of such
an execution, the judgment shall remain, as security for the sum or sums to
become due, after the execution is issued. When a further sum becomes
due, an execution may, in like manner, be issued for the collection thereof ;
and successive executions may be issued, as further sums become due.
§ 1278. Confession by one of several joint debtors. One or more
joint debtors may confess a judgment for a joint debt, due or to become due.
Where all the joint debtors do not unite in the confession, the judgment
must be entered and enforced against those only who confessed it ; and it is
not a bar to an action against all the joint debtors, upon the same demand.
*So in the original.
§ 1279. Controversy, how submitted without process. The parties
to a question in difference, which might be the subject of an action, being
of full age, may agree upon a case, containing a statement of the facts, upon
which the controversy depends ; and may present a written submission thereof
to a court of record, which would have jurisdiction of an action, brought for
the same cause. The case must be accompanied with the affidavit of one of
the parties, to the effect, that the controversy is real ; and that the submis
sion is made in good faith, for the purpose of determining the rights of the
parties. The submission must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in
like manner as a deed, to be recorded in the county where it is filed.
§ 1280. Papers to be filed ; controversy thereupon becomes an
action. The case, submission, and affidavit, must be filed in the office of
the clerk of the court, to which the submission is made. If the submission
is made to the supreme court, they must be filed in the office of the county
clerk, if any, specified in the submission ; if no county clerk is so specified,
they may be filed in the office of any county clerk. The filing is a presen
tation of the submission ; and thenceforth the controversy becomes an action;
and each provision of law, relating to a proceeding in an action, applies to
the subsequent proceedings therein, except as otherwise prescribed in the
next section.
§ 1281. Subsequent proceedings regulated An order of arrest, an
injunction, or a warrant of attachment, cannot be granted in such an action ;
the costs thereof are always in the discretion of the court, but costs cannot
be taxed, for any proceedings before notice of trial ; the action must be tried
by the court, upon the case alone ; and the case, submission, affidavit, and
a certified copy of the judgment, and of any order or paper, necessarily
affecting the judgment, constitute the judgment-roll. If the action is in the
supreme court, a superior city court, or the marine court of the city of New
York, it must be tried, and judgment rendered, at the general term. If the
statement of facts, contained in the case, is not sufficient to enable the court
to render judgment, an order must be made dismissing the submission,
without costs to either party; unless the court permits the parties, or, in a
proper case, their representatives, to file an additional statement, which it
may do, in its discretion, without prejudice to the original statement.
To whom notice of the motion must be given.
Id. ; when real property recovered by the judgment has been conveyed.
How notice given under this title.
Within what time motion to be made.
Exceptions in cases of disability.
Restitution ; when directed.

§ 1282. Motion to set aside judgment for irregularity ; when it may
be heard A motion to set aside a final judgment, for irregularity, shall
not be heard, after the expiration of one year since the filing of the judgmentroll ; unless notice thereof is given for a day within the year, and either the
hearing is adjourned, by one or more orders, until after the expiration of the
year ; or the term for which it is thus noticed, is not held. In the latter
event, the motion may be re-noticed for, and heard at, the next term at
which it can be made, held not less than ten days after the day, when the
first term was appointed to be held.
§ 1283. Motion to set aside judgment for error in fact ; when it
may be made by party. A motion to set aside a final judgment, rendered
in a court of record, for error in fact not arising upon the trial, may be made
by the party against whom it is rendered ; or, if an execution has not been
issued thereon, and the judgment has not been wholly or partly satisfied or
enforced, by the party in whose favor it is rendered.
§ 1284. Id. ; after a party's death. A like motion may be made, after
the death of a party entitled to make it, as prescribed in the last section,
by the following persons :
1. "Where the judgment awards a sum of money, or a chattel, or an inter
est in real property, which is declared by law to be assets, the motion may
be made by his executor or administrator.
2. "Where the judgment awards real property, or the possession thereof, or
where the title to or an estate or interest in real property is determined or
affected thereby, the motion may be made by the heir of the decedent, to
whom the real property descended, or might have descended, or by the
person to whom he devised it.
3. Where the judgment is rendered against or in favor of two or more
persons, the motion may be made, jointly, by the survivor, and the person
who would have been entitled to make it, if the judgment had been rendered
in favor of or against the decedent only.
S\ 1285. Id ; by a person not a party. A motion may be made, either
ore or after the death of the defendant, by a person, who is not a party,
to set aside, for error in fact, not arising upon the trial, a judgment, rendered
in an action against a tenant for life, or for years, awarding real property,
or the possession of real property, in which the person making the motion
has an estate, or interest, in reversion or remainder.
§ 1286. Id ; when several parties are entitled to move. Where two
or more persons are entitled to move to set aside a judgment, as prescribed
in the last three sections, one or more of them may move separately ; but,
in that case, notice of the motion must be given to those who do not join
therein, in like manner as if they were adverse parties.
§ 1287. To whom notice of the motion must be given. Notice of a
motion to set aside a final judgment, for error in fact not arising upon the
trial, must be given to the adverse party, or, in a case of his death, to each
person who might have moved, as against the moving party, to set aside
the judgment for the same cause, as prescribed in this title. Where the
motion is made by the party against whom the judgment is rendered, or by
his heir, devisee, executor, or administrator, service of the notice, upon the
attorney of record for the party, in whose favor the judgment is rendered,
has the like effect, as if it was served upon the party.
§ 1288. Id. ; when real property recovered by the judgment has
been conveyed Where the judgment awards real property, or the pos
session thereof, or where the title to, or an estate or interest in, real prop
erty is determined or affected thereby, and the real property, or estate or
interest therein, has been conveyed, by the adverse party, more than eight
days before the hearing of the motion, notice of the motion must also be
given to each actual occupant of the property, claiming under the con
veyance.
§ 1289. How notice given under this title. Notice must be given, in
a case specified in this title, by personal service of a written notice, or of an
order to show cause why the motion should not be granted ; or, if a person
entitled to notice cannot, with due diligence, be found within the State, in
any manner which the court, or a judge thereof, directs in an order to show
cause, or which the court directs in a subsequent order.
§ 1290. Within what time motion to be made. A motion to set aside
a final judgment, for error in fact, not arising upon the trial, shall not be
heard, except as specified in the next section, after the expiration of two
years since the filing of the judgment-roll, unless notice thereof is given, for
a day within the two years ; and either the hearing is adjourned, by one or
more orders, until after the expiration of the two years ; or the term, for
which it is thus noticed, is not held. In the latter event, the motion may be
re-noticed for, and heard at, the next term at which it can be made, held
not less than ten days after the day, when the first term was appointed to
be held.
§ 1291 . Exceptions in cases of disability. If the person, against whom
the judgment is rendered, is, at the time of filing the judgment, either
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution, upon conviction of a
criminal offense, for a term less than for life ;
The time of such a disability is not a part of the time, limited by the last
section ; except that the time, within which the motion may be heard, can
not be extended more than five years by such a disability, nor, in any case,
more than one year after the disability ceases.
§ 1292. Restitution ; when directed Where a judgment is set aside
for any cause, upon motion, the court may direct and enforce restitution, in
like manner, with like effect, and subject to the same conditions, as where a
judgment is reversed upon appeal.
Writs of error abolished.
When party may appeal.
Parties to appeal ; how designated. Title of cause.
When a person entitled to become a party may appeal.
Proceedings, when party dies pending appeal.
Order of substitution.
Appeal, how taken.
When notice of appeal to specify interlocutory judgment, etc.
Proceedings, if attorney or party not found.
Defects in proceedings may be supplied.
Order appealed from must be entered. Proceedings to compel en
Security may be waived.
Deposit, in lieu of undertaking.
Undertaking must be filed.
New undertaking to be given, when sureties are insolvent, etc.
Action upon undertaking, when not to be brought.
When appeal stays prooeedings ; effect thereof.
Levy upon personal property, when superseded by appeal.
Court may limit amount of security in certain cases.
No security necessary, on appeal by the people, etc.
Id. ; on appeal by domestic municipal corporation.
Papers to be transmitted to appellate court.
Interlocutory judgment, or intermediate order, may be reviewed.
Judgment or order on appeal.
When no appeal lies from judgment of reversal.
Mode of enforcing affirmed or modified judgment.
Id. ; aa-to order.
Mode of cancelling docket of reversed or modified judgment.
Id. ; when reversal, etc., was by court of appeals.
Restitution ; when awarded.

§ 1293. Writs of error abolished. The ■writ of error in a civil action or
special proceeding has been abolished.
§ 1294. When party may appeal. A party aggrieved may appeal, in a
case prescribed in this chapter, except where the judgment or order, of which
he complains, was rendered or made upon his default.
§ 1295. Parties to appeal ; how designated. Title of cause. The
party or person appealing is designated as the appellant, and the adverse
party as the respondent. After an appeal is taken to another court, the
name of the appellate court must be substituted, for that of the court below,
in the title of the action or special proceeding, and in any case, the name of
the county, if it is mentioned, may be omitted ; otherwise the title shall not
be changed, in consequence of the appeal.
§ 1296. When a person entitled to become a party may appeal A
person aggrieved, who is not a party, but is entitled by law to be substituted,
in place of a party ; or who has acquired, since the making of the order, or
the rendering of the judgment appealed from, an interest, which would have
entitled him to be so substituted, if it had been previously acquired, may
also appeal, as prescribed in this chapter, for an appeal by a party. But
the appeal cannot be heard, until he has been substituted in the place of the
party ; and if he unreasonably neglects to procure an order of substitution,
the appeal may be dismissed, upon motion of the respondent.
§ 1297. Appeal when adverse party has died. Where the adverse
party has died, since the making of the order, or the rendering of the judg
ment appealed from, or where the judgment appealed from was rendered,
after his death, in a case prescribed by law, an appeal may be taken, as if
he was living ; but it cannot be heard, until the heir, devisee, executor, or
administrator, as the case requires, has been substituted as the respondent,
In such a case, an undertaking required to perfect the appeal, or to stay the
execution of the judgment or order appealed from, must recite the fact of
the adverse party's death ; and the undertaking enures, after substitution,
to the benefit of the person substituted.
§ 1298. Proceedings, when party dies, pending appeal. [Amended by
Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where either party to an appeal dies, before the appeal
is heard, or has heretofore died and the appeal has not been heard, if an
order, substituting another person in his place, is not made, within three
months after his death, or where he has heretofore died within three months
after this section takes effect, the court, in which the appeal is pending, may,
in its discretion, make an order, requiring all persons interested in the
decedent's estate, to show cause before it, why the judgment or order
appealed from should not be reversed or affirmed, or the appeal dismissed,
as the case requires. The order must specify a day when cause is to be
shown, which must be not less than six months after making the order ; and
it must designate the mode of giving notice to the persons interested. Upon
the return day of the order, or at a subsequent day, appointed by the court,
if the proper person has not been substituted, the court, upon proof, by affi
davit, that notice has been given, as required by the order, may reverse or
affirm the judgment or order appealed from, or dismiss the appeal, or make
such further order in the premises, as justice requires.
§ 1299. Order of substitution. Where the appeal is from one court to
another, an application for an order of substitution, as prescribed by the last
three sections, must be made to the appellate court. Where personal service
of notice of application for an order has been made, within the State, upon
the proper representative of the decedent, an order of substitution may be
made, upon the application of the surviving party.
§ 1300. Appeal how taken. An appeal must be taken by serving, upon
the attorney for the adverse party, as prescribed in article third of title sixth
of chapter eighth of this act, and upon the clerk, with whom the judgment
or order appealed from is entered, by filing it in his office, a written notice,
to the effect, that the appellant appeals from the judgment or order, or from
a specified part thereof.
§ 1301. When notice of appeal to specify interlocutory judgment,
etc. Where the appeal is from a final judgment, or from a final order in a
special proceeding, and the appellant intends to bring up, for review there
upon, an interlocutory judgment, or an intermediate order, he must, in the
notice of appeal, distinctly specify the interlocutory judgment, or inter
mediate order, to be reviewed.
§ 1302 Proceedings, if attorney or party not found. If the attorney
for the adverse party is dead ; or if he has been removed, and notice of the
removal has been served upon the appellant's attorney, and another attorney
has not been substituted in his place ; or if, for any reason, service of a notice
of appeal, upon the proper attorney for the adverse party, cannot, with due
diligence, be made within the State, the notice of appeal may be served
upon the respondent, in the manner prescribed by law for serving it upon an
attorney. If personal service upon the respondent cannot, with due dilifence, be so made within the State, the notice of appeal may be served upon
im, and notice of the subsequent proceedings may be given to him, as
directed by a judge of the court, in or to which the appeal is taken.
§ 1303. Defects in proceedings may be supplied. Where the appel
lant, seasonably and in good faith, serves the notice of appeal, either upon
the clerk or upon the adverse party, or his attorney, but omits, through mis
take, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, to serve it upon the other, or to do
any other act, necessary to perfect the appeal, or to stay the execution of the
judgment or order appealed from ; the court in or to which the appeal is
taken, upon proof, by affidavit, of the facts, may, in its discretion, permit
the omission to be supplied, or an amendment to be made, upon such terms
as justice requires.
S 1304. Order appealed from must be entered. Proceedings to com
pel entry. An appeal cannot be taken from an order made by a judge, out
of court, until it is entered in the office of the proper clerk. Where such an
order has not been so entered, or the papers, upon which it was founded have
not been filed in the same clerk's office, the judge who made it, or if he is
absent, or unable or disqualified to act, a judge of the co:irt, in or to which
an appeal therefrom may be taken, must, upon the application of a party or
other person, entitled to take such an appeal, make an order, requiring the
omission to be supplied, within a specified time after service of a copy of the
order made by him. Upon proof, by affidavit, that a copy of the latter order
has been served, and that the omission has not been supplied, the same
judge may make, upon notice, an order revoking and annulling the original
order. The provisions of the last section but one apply to the service of an
order, or a notice, as prescribed in this section.
§ 1305. Security may be waived. An undertaking, which the appel
lant is required, by this chapter, to give, or any other act which he is so
required to do, for the security of the respondent, may be waived by the
written consent of the respondent.
§ 1306. Deposit in lieu of undertaking. Where the appellant is required,
by this chapter, to give an undertaking, he may, in lieu thereof, deposit
with the clerk, with whom the judgment or order appealed from, is entered,
a sum of money, equal to the amount, for which the undertaking is required
to be given. The deposit has the same effect, as filing the undertaking;
and notice that it has been made, has the same effect, as notice of the filing
and service of a copy of the undertaking. The court, wherein the appeal is
pending, may direct the mode, in which the money shall be kept and dis
posed of, during the pendency, or after the determination of the appeal.
§ 1307. Undertaking must be filed. An undertaking, given as pre
scribed in this chapter, must be filed with the clerk, with whom the judgment
or order appealed from is entered.
§ 1308. New undertaking to be given, when sureties are insolvent,
etc. The court, in which the appeal is pending, upon satisfactory proof, by
affidavit, that since the execution of an undertaking, given as prescribed in
this chapter, one or more of the sureties therein have become insolvent ; or
that his or their circumstances have become so precarious, the* there is rea
son to apprehend, that the undertaking is not sufficient for the security of
the respondent ; may make an order, requiring the appellant to file a new
undertaking, and to serve a copy thereof, as required with respect to the
original undertaking. If the appellant fails so to do, within twenty days after
the service of a copy of the order, or such further time as the court allows, the
appeal must be dismissed, or the order or judgment, from which the appeal is
taken, must be executed, as if the original undertaking had not been given.
§ 1309. Action upon undertaking, when not to be brought An
action shall not be maintained, upon an undertaking, given upon an appeal,
taken as prescribed in title third, fourth or fifth of this chapter, until ten
days have expired, since the service, upon the attorney for the appellant, of
a written notice of the entry of a judgment or order, affirming the judgment
or order appealed from, or dismissing the appeal. Where an appeal to the
court of appeals, from that judgment or order, is perfected, and security is
given thereupon, to stay the execution of the judgment or order appealed
from, an action shall not be maintained upon the undertaking, given upon
the preceding appeal, until after the final determination of the appeal to the
court of appeals.
§ 1310. When appeal stays proceedings ; effect thereof Where an
appeal has been perfected as prescribed in this chapter, and the other acts,
if any, required to be done, to stay the execution of the judgment or order
appealed from, have been done, the appeal stays all proceedings to enforce
the judgment or order appealed from; except that the court or judge, from
whose determination the appeal is taken, may proceed in any matter,
included in the action or special proceeding, and not affected by the judg
ment or order appealed from, or not embraced within the appeal ; or may
cause perishable property to be sold, pursuant to the judgment or order
appealed from. The proceeds of such a sale must be paid, to abide the
result of the appeal, into the court, from or in which the appeal is taken ;
or if it was taken as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter, into the supreme
court.
•
§ 1311. Levy upon personal property, when superseded by appeal.
Where an appeal, taken, from a final judgment, to the court of appeals, has
been perfected, and the security, required to stay the execution of the judg
ment, has been given ; or where the security, given upon an appeal, taken
from a final judgment of the supreme court, a superior city court, a county
court, or the marine court of the city of New York, is equal to that required
to perfect an appeal to the court of appeals, and to stay the execution of the
judgment ; the court, in which the judgment appealed from was rendered,
may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as justice requires, make an
• So in Hie original.
order, upon notice to the respondent, and the sureties in the undertaking,
discharging a levy upon personal property, made by virtue of an execution,
issued upon the judgment appealed from. But this section does not author
ize the discharge of a levy, made by virtue of a warrant of attachment.
§ 1312. Court may limit amount of security in certain cases. Where
an appeal is taken, as prescribed in title second or fourth of this chapter, the
court, in or from which the appeal is taken ; or where an appeal is taken
as prescribed in title third or fifth of this chapter, the court, to which the
appeal is taken ; may, in its discretion, make an order, upon notice to the
respondent, dispensing with or limiting the security, required to stay the
execution of the judgment or order appealed from, as follows :
1. Where the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other
person acting in another's right, the security may be dispensed with or lim
ited, in the discretion of the court.
2. The aggregate sum, in which one or more undertakings are required
to be given, may be limited to not less than fifty thousand dollars, where it
would otherwise exceed that sum.
§ 1313. No security necessary on appeal by the people, etc. Upon
an appeal, taken by the people of the State, or by a State officer, or board of
State officers, the service of the notice of appeal perfects the appeal, and
stays the execution of the judgment or order appealed from, without an
undertaking, or other security.
§ 1314. Id. ; on appeal by a domestic municipal corporation
[Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Upon an appeal, taken by a domestic munici
pal corporation, the service of the notice of appeal perfects the appeal, and
stays the execution of the judgment or order appealed from, without an under
taking, or other security ; except that, where an appeal is t.iken, as pre
scribed in title second, third or fourth of this chapter, the court, in or from
which the appeal is taken, may, in its discretion, require security to be given.
In that case, the form, nature, and extent of the security, not exceeding that
which is required in a like case, from a natural person, and the time and
manner in which it must be given, must be prescribed by the order of the
court ; and the mayor, comptroller, or counsel to the corporation, may exe
cute, in behalf of the corporation, an undertaking, so required to be given.
§ 1315. Papers to be transmitted to appellate court. Where an appeal
is taken from a final judgment, as prescribed in title second or third of this
chapter, the appellant must, within twenty days after it is perfected, cause
a certilied copy of the notice of appeal, of the judgment-roll, and of a case
or notice of exceptions, if any, filed after the entry of judgment, to be trans
mitted to the appellate court, by the clerk, upon whom the notice of appeal
was served. Where an appeal from an order, or a part of an order, is taken
as prescribed in title second, third, or fifth of this chapter, the appellant
must, within the same time, cause a certified copy of the juotice of appeal, of
the order, and of the papers upon which the order was founded, to be trans
mitted to the appellate court, by the same clerk. If the appellant fails so
to do, the respondent may cause those papers to be so transmitted ; and he
is entitled to tax the expense thereof, as a disbursement, where he recovers
costs. The clerk of the appellate court must file the papers so transmitted ;
and, except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, the appeal
must be heard upon them.
§ 1316. Interlocutory judgment, or intermediate order, may be
reviewed. An appeal, taken from a final judgment, brings up for review,
an interlocutory judgment, or an intermediate order, which is specified in
the notice of appeal, and necessarily affects the final judgment ; and which
has not already been reviewed, upon a separate appeal therefrom, by the
court or a term of the court, to which the appeal from the final judgment
is taken. The right to review an interlocutory judgment, or an intermediate
order, as prescribed
time, within which a separate appeal therefrom might have been taken.
§ 1317. Judgment or order on appeal. Upon an appeal from a judg
ment or an order, the court, or the general term, to which the appeal is
taken, may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify, the judgment
or order appealed from, and each interlocutory judgment or intermediate
order, which it is authorized to review, as specified in the notice of appeal,
and as, to any or all of the parties ; and it may, if necessary or proper, grant
a new trial or hearing. A judgment, affirming wholly or partly a judgment,
from which an appeal has been taken, shall not, expressly and in terms,
award to the respondent, a sum of money, or other relief, which was awarded
to him by the judgment so affirmed.
§ 1318. When an appeal lies from judgment of reversal. Where a
judgment, from which an appeal is taken, is reversed upon the appeal, and
a new trial is granted, an appeal cannot be taken from the judgment of
reversal ; but upon an appeal from the order granting a new trial, taken, as
prescribed by law, the judgment of reversal must also be reviewed.
§ 1319. Mode of enforcing affirmed or modified judgment. Where a
judgment, from which an appeal has been taken, from one court to another,
is wholly or partly affirmed, or is modified, upon the appeal, it must be
enforced, by the court in which it was rendered, to the extent permitted by •
the determination of the appellate court, as if the appeal therefrom had not '
been taken.
§ 1320. Id. ; as to order. Where a final order, from which an appeal
has been taken, from one court to another, as prescribed in title fifth of this
chapter, is wholly or partly affirmed, or is modified, upon the appeal, the
appellate court may enforce its order, or may direct the proceedings to be
remitted, for that purpose, to the court below, or to the judge who made the
order appealed from.
§ 1321. Mode of cancelling docket of reversed or modified judg
ment. [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where a final judgment for a
sum of money, or directing the payment of a sum of money, has been re
versed, or has been affirmed as to part only of the sum, upon an appeal,
taken as prescribed in title third or fourth of this chapter ; and an appeal to
the court of appeals is not taken and perfected, and the security required
to stay execution is not given, within ten days after the entry of the
judgment upon the appeal, in the clerk's office where the judgment
appealed from is entered, the clerk must make a minute of the reversal
of the judgment, or of the amount to which it has been reduced, upon
his docket-book, in each place, where the judgment is docketed. A
transcript of the docket, as thus corrected, must be furnished by him, and
may be filed in any county clerk's office, where the original judgment is
docketed, as prescribed by law, with respect to the original docket ; and
thereupon the county clerk must correct his docket accordingly. The lien
of a judgment, the docket of which is not corrected, as prescribed in this
section, remains unaffected by the reversal or modification thereof, until the
decision of the court of appeals, upon an appeal from the judgment reversing
or modifying the same, or the expiration of the time to take such an appeal.
§ 1322. Id. ; -when reversal, etc., was by court of appeals. Where a
final judgment for a sum of money, or directing the payment of a sum of
money, has been reversed, or affirmed as to part only of the sum, upon an
appeal to the court of appeals, the docket may be corrected, as prescribed in
the last section, at any time after the remittitur has been filed in the court
below.
§ 1323. Restitution ; when awarded. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877
and by Ch. 529 of 1880.] When a iinal judgment or order is reversed or
modified, upon appeal, the appellate court, or the general term of the same
court, as the case may be, may make or compel restitution of property, or of
a right, lost by means of the erroneous judgment or order; but not so as to
affect the title of the purchaser in good faith and for value. When property
has been sold, the court may compel the value, or the purchase price; to be
restored, or deposited to abide the event of the action, as j ustice requires.
When the appeal is from a judgment in favor of the owner of real estate, in
an action to compel the specific performance of a contract for the sale thereof,
such owner shall have the same right to sell and dispose of the same as
though no appeal had been taken ; unless the appellant shall file with the
clerk of the court a written undertaking, in a sum fixed by the court, or a
judge thereof, upon a notice to the respondent of at least ten days, and to be
approved by such court or judge, to the effect that the appellant will, incase
the judgment appealed from shall be affirmed, pay to such owner such
damages as he may suffer by reason of such appeal, not exceeding the
amount of the penalty in such undertaking. Such undertaking may be filed
at any time during the appeal, but any sale of such real estate or contract
to sell the same in good faith and for a valuable consideration, after said
judgment and before the filing of such undertaking, shall be as valid as if
such undertaking had not been filed. In case such undertaking shall not
be filed, the respondent shall be entitled, at any time during such appeal, to
an order discharging of record any notice of pendency of action filed in the
action, and also cancelling and discharging of record said contract, in case
the same has been recorded.
What appeals may be taken.
Limitation of time to appeal.
Security to pei-fect appeal.
Security to stay execution on judgment, etc., for money.
Id. j on judgment, etc., for delivery of property.
Id. ; on judgment for a chattel.
Id. ; on judgment, etc., directing conveyance.
Id. ; on judgment, etc., for possession of real property.
Construction of the last five sections.
The last six sections qualified.
Undertakings may be in one instrument ; form and service thereof.
Exception to sureties ; justification.
Appeal from final judgment rendered after affirmance of interlocutory
judgment, or denial of motion for new trial.
1337. What questions are brought tip for review.
1338. When questions of fact to be reviewed.
1339. When a case to be prepared, etc., for the appeal.
§ 1324. What appeals may be taken. An appeal may be taken to the
court of appeals, in a case where that court has jurisdiction, as prescribed in
sections 190 and 191 of this act.
§ 1325. Limitation of time to appeal [Amended by Ch. 416 op 1877.]
An appeal to the court of appeals, from a final judgment, must be taken,
within one year after final judgment is entered, upon the determination of
the general term of the court below, and the judgment-roll filed. An appeal
to the court of appeals, from an order, must be taken within sixty days after
service, upon the attorney for the appellant, of a copy of the order appealed
from, and a written notice of the entry thereof.
§ 1326. Security to perfect appeal. Torender a notice of appeal, to the
court of appeals, effectual, for any purpose, except in a case where it is
specially prescribed by law, that security is not necessary, to perfect the
appeal, the appellant must give a written undertaking, to the effect, that he
will pay all costs and damages, which may be awarded against him on the
appeal, not exceeding five hundred dollars. The appeal is perfected, when
such an undertaking is given and a copy thereof, with notice of the filing
thereof, is served, as prescribed in this title.
§ 1327. Security to stay execution on judgment, etc., for money.
If the appeal is taken from a judgment for a sum of money, or from a judg
ment or order directing the payment of a sum of money, it does not stay the
execution of the judgment or order, until the appellant gives a written
undertaking, to the effect, that if the judgment or order appealed from, or
any part thereof, is affirmed, or the appeal is dismissed, he will pay the sum,
recovered or directed to be paid, by the judgment or order, or the part
thereof, as to which it is affirmed. But where the judgment or order directs
the payment of money in fixed installments, the undertaking must be to the
effect, that the appellant will pay each installment, which becomes payable,
pending the appeal, or the part thereof as to which the judgment or order is
affirmed, not exceeding a sum specified in the undertaking, which must be
fixed by a judge of the court below. The court below may, at any time
afterwards, upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit, that the sum so fixed is
insufficient in amount, make an order, requiring the appellant to give a fur
ther undertaking, to the same effect, in a sum and within a time, specified
in the order. A failure to comply with such an order has the same effect as
if no undertaking had been given, as prescribed in this section.
§ 1328. Id. ; on judgment, etc., for the delivery of property. If the ap
peal is taken from a judgment or order, directing the assignment or deliv
ery of a document, or of personal property, it does not stay the execution of
the judgment or order, until the thing directed to be assigned or delivered,
is brought into the court below, or placed in the custody of an officer or re
ceiver, designated by that court ; or the appellant gives a written under
taking as prescribed in the next section.
8 1329. Id. ; on judgment for a chattel. If the appeal is taken from a
judgment for the recovery of a chattel, it does not stay the execution of the
judgment, until the appellant gives a written undertaking, in a sum fixed
by the court below, or a judge thereof, to the effect that the appellant will
obey the direction of the appellate court upon the appeal.
§ 1330. Id. ; on judgment, etc., directing conveyance. If the appeal
is taken from a judgment or order, directing the execution of a conveyance,
or other instrument, it does not stay the execution of the judgment or order,
until the instrument is executed and deposited with the clerk, with whom
the judgment or order is entered, to abide the direction of the appel ate
court.
§ 1331. Id. ; on judgment, etc., for the possession of real property.
[Amended bt Ch. 542 op 1879.] If the appeal is taken from a judgment
which entitles the respondent to the immediate possession of real property,
or from a judgment or order directing the sale or the delivery of possession
of real property, it does not stay the execution of the judgment or order,
until the appellant gives a written undertaking, to the effect that he will not
while in possession of the property, commit, or suffer to be committed, any
waste thereon ; and that, if the judgment or order is affirmed, or the appeal
is dismissed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property,
or the part thereof, as to which the judgment or order is affirmed from the
time of taking the appeal until the delivery of the possession thereof, pur
suant to the judgment or order, not exceeding a specified sum, fixed by a
judge of the court below. But if the judgment directs a foreclosure and
sale of real property mortgaged, an undertaking is sufficient to stay the exe
cution of the judgment, which is to the effect that if the judgment is affirmed,
or the appeal is dismissed, the appellant will pay any deficiency which may
occur upon the sale, in discharging the sum to pay which the sale is directed,
with interest, and the costs, and all expenses chargeable against the pro
ceeds of the sale, not exceeding a specified sum, fixed by a judge of the
court below.
§ 1332. Construction of the last five sections. Where the judgment or
order from which an appeal is taken to the court of appeals, affirms a judg
ment or order to the effect specified in either of the last five sections, the
undertaking must be the same as if the judgment or order from which the
appeal is so taken, was to the same effect as the judgment or order so
affirmed.
§ 1333. The last six sections qualified. The last six sections do not
extend to a case where it is specially prescribed by law that an appeal may
be taken, or the execution of a judgment or order appealed from may be
stayed, without security, or where the security to be given, for either pur
pose, is specially regulated by law.
§ 1334. Undertakings may be in one instrument ; form and service
thereof. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.J Where two or more undertakings
are required to be given, as prescribed in this title, they may be contained
in the same instrument, or in different instruments, at the option of the ap
pellant. Each undertaking, given as prescribed in this title, must be exe
cuted by at least two sureties, and must specify the residence of each surety
therein. A copy thereof, with a notice showing where it is filed, must be
served on the attorney for the adverse party with the notice of appeal, or
before the expiration of the time of appeal.
§ 1335. Exception to sureties ; justification It it not necessary that the
undertaking should be approved; bat the attorney for the respondent may,
within ten days after a service of a copy of the undertaking, with notice of
the filing thereof, serve upon the attorney for the appellant, a written notice
that he excepts to the .-ufficiency of the sureties. Within ten days there
after, the sureties, or other sureties in a new undertaking to the same effect,
must justify before a judge of the court below or a county judge. At least
five days' notice of the justification must be given; in every other respect
the provisions of sections 578, 579 and 580 of ihis act apply to the justifica
tion. If the judge finds the sureties sufficient he must indorse his allowance
of them upon the undertaking, or a copy thereof ; and a notice of the allow
ance must be served upon the attorney for the exceptant. The effect of a
failure so to justify, and to procure an allowance, is the same, as if the
undertaking had not been given. |Am'd Ch. 397 op 1882. See § 2.]
§ 1336. Appeal from final judgment rendered after affirmance of
interlocutory judgment, or denial of motion for new trial. Where final
judgment is rendered in the court below, after the affirmance, upon an appeal
to the general term of that court, of an interlocutory judgment ; or after the
refusal, by the general term of a new trial, either upon an application
made in the first instance, at the general term, or upon an appeal from an
order of the special term, or of the judge before whom he issues, or questions
of fact, were tried by a jury; the party aggrieved may appeal directly from
the final judgment to the court of appeals, notwithstanding that it was rend
ered at a special term, or at a trial term, or pursuant to the directions, con
tained in a referee's report. But such an appeal brings up, for review, only
the determination of the general term, affirming the interlocutory judgment,
or refusing the new trial.
§ 1337. What questions are brought up for review. An appeal to the
court of appeals from a final judgment, or from an order, granting or refusing
a new trial in an action, or from a final order affecting a substantial right,
made, either in a special proceeding, or upon a summary application after
judgment in an action, brings up for review, in that court every question,
affecting a substantial right, and not resting in discretion, which was deter
mined by the general term of the court below, in rendering the judgment or
making the order, from which the appeal is taken ; except that a question
of fact, arising upon conflicting evidence, cannot be determined upon such
an appeal, unless where special provision for the determination thereof is
made by law.
§ 1338. When questions of fact to be reviewed. Upon an appeal to
the court of appeals from a judgment, reversing a judgment entered upon
a referee's report, or a decision of the court, upon a trial without a jury ; or
from an order granting a new trial, upon such a reversal ; it must be pre
sumed that the judgment was not reversed, or the new trial granted, upon a
question of fact, unless the contrary clearly appears in the body of the
judgment or order appealed from. In that case, the court of appeals must
review the determination of the general term of the court below, upon the
questions of fact, as well as the questions of law.
§ 1339. When a case to be prepared, etc., for the appeal Where an
appeal to the court of appeals, from a judgment, rendered at a general term
of the court below, upon a verdict, subject to the opinion of the court,, has
been perfected, a case, containing a concise statement of the facts, of the
questions of law arising thereupon, and of the determination of those ques
tions by the general term, must be prepared and settled, by or under the
direction of the court below, and annexed to the judgment-roll. An excep
tion is not necessary, to enable the court of appeals to review the determina
tion of a question of law, arising upon the verdict. A certified copy of the
case must be transmitted to the court of appeals, instead of the case, upon
which the judgment of the court below was rendered. The court below, or
a judge thereof, may extend the time, limited by law, within which the
papers must be transmitted to the court of appeals, for the purpose of ena
bling the appellant to procure the case to be prepared or settled.
Appeal from judgment.
Limitation of time ; security.
Appeal from order.
Limitations of time and stay of proceedings.
Appeal, where and how heard.
Judgment or order, where entered.

§ 1340. Appeal from judgment An appeal may be taken, to the
supreme court, from a final judgment rendered by a county court, or by any
other court of record, possessing original jurisdiction, where an appeal there
from to a court, other than the supreme court, is not expressly given by
statute.
§ 1341. Limitation of time ; security. [Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.]
An appeal, authorized by the last section, must be taken within sixty days
after service upon the attorney for the appellant of a copy of the judgment
and notice of the entry thereof. Upon such an appeal, security must be
given to perfect the appeal, or to stay the execution of the judgment, and
the sureties may be excepted to, and must justify, as upon an appeal to the
court of appeals, from a judgment of the same amount, or to the same effect.
§ 1342. Appeal from order. An appeal may also be taken to the
supreme court, from an order affecting a substantial right, made by the
court or a judge, in an action brought in, or taken by appeal to, a court
specified in the last section but one. [Am'd Ch. 135 op 1881.]
§ 1343. Limitation of time and stay of proceedings. [Amended by
Ch. 416 of 1877.] An appeal, authorized by the last section, must be taken,
within sixty days after service upon the attorney for the appellant, of a copy
of the order, and written notice of the entry thereof. Security is not required
to perfect it ; but it does not stay the execution of the order from which it is
taken. The appellate court, or a judge thereof, may direct such a stay, upon
such terms, as to security or otherwise, as justice requires.
§ 1344. Appeal where and how heard An appeal, taken as prescribed
in this title, must be heard at the general term. The provisions of title
fourth of this chapter, relating to the hearing of appeals, taken in the
supreme court, and to the subsequent proceedings thereupon, apply to an
appeal, taken as prescribed in this title, except as specified in the next
section.
§ 1345. Judgment or order, where entered. A judgment of the supreme
court, rendered upon an appeal authorized by this title, must be entered in
the judgment-book, kept in the office of the clerk of the county, wherein the
court below is located. The judgment-roll must be filed in the same office ;
and must consist of a certified copy of the judgment, annexed to the papers
transmitted from the court below. An order of the supreme court, made
upon such an appeal, must be entered, and the papers, upon which the appeal
was heard, must be filed, in the office of the same clerk. The filing of the
judgment-roll, or the entry of the order, as prescribed in this section, is a
sufficient authority for any proceeding in the court below, or before the
judge, who made the order appealed from, which the judgment or order of
the appellate court directs or permits. But where the execution of the
judgment or order of the appellate court is stayed, by an appeal to the court
of appeals, the proceedings in the court below, or before the judge who made
the order, are stayed in like manner.
§ 1346. Appeal from judgment. An appeal may be taken to the gen
eral term of the supreme court, or of a superior city court, from a final judg
ment rendered in the same court, as follows :
1. Where the judgment was rendered upon a trial by a referee, or by the
court without a jury, the appeal may be taken upon questions of law, or upon
the facts, or upon both.
2. Where the judgment was rendered upon the verdict of a jury, the
appeal may be taken upon questions of law.
§ 1347. Appeal from order. An appeal may be taken to the general
term of the supreme court, or of a superior city court, from an order made
in an action, upon notice, at a special term or a trial term of the same court,
or, in the supreme court, at a term of the circuit court, in either of the followingcases :
1. Where the order grants, refuses, continues, or modifies a provisional
remedy.
2. Where it grants, or refuses a new trial ; except that where specific
questions of fact, arising upon the issues, in an action triable by the court,
have been tried by a jury, pursuant to an order for that purpose, as pre
scribed in section 971 of this act, an appeal cannot be taken from an order,
granting or refusing a new trial, upon the merits.
3. Where it involves some part of the merits.
4. Where it affects a substantial right.
5. Where, in effect, it determines the action, and prevents a judgment,
from which an appeal might be taken.
6. Where it determines a statutory provision of the State to be unconsti
tutional ; and the determination appears from the reasons given for the
decision thereupon, or is necessarily implied in the decision.
An order, made upon a summary application, after judgment, is deemed
to have been made, in the action, within the meaning of this section.
§ 1348. Id. ; when made out of court. An appeal may also be taken,
to the general term of either of those courts, from au order, made in an action,
upon notice, by a judge, out of court, in a case where an appeal might have
been taken, as prescribed in the last section, if the order had been made by
the court.
§ 1349. Appeal from interlocutory judgment An appeal may also be
taken, to the general term of either of those courts, from an interlocutory
judgment, rendered at a special term or trial term of the same court, or, in
the supreme court, at a term of the circuit court.
§ 1350. Appeal from final judgment, after affirmance of interlocu
tory judgment, or denial of new trial Review in the court of appeals.
Where final judgment is taken, at a special term or trial term, or pursuant to
the directions of a referee, after the affirmance, upon an appeal to the general
term, of an interlocutory judgment; or after the refusal, by the general
term, of a new trial, either upon an application, made, in the first instance,
at the general term, or upon an appeal from an order of the special term, or
of the judge, before whom the issues, or questions of fact, were tried by a
jury ; an appeal to the general term from the final judgment, brings up, for
review, only the proceedings to take the final judgment, or upon which the
final judgment was taken, including the hearing or trial of the other issues
in the action, if any. If an appeal is taken, to the court of appeals, from the
determination of the general term, upon the appeal from the final judgment,
the determination of the general term, affirming the interlocutory judgment
or refusing the new trial, may, at the election of either party, be reviewed
thereupon. If the respondent elects to bring it up for review, he may take
a cross-appeal therefrom, notwithstanding the expiration of the time to take
an original appeal therefrom.
§ 1351. Limitation of time ; order to stay proceedings. An appeal
authorized by this title, must be taken, within thirty days after service, upon
the attorney for the appellant, of a copy of the judgment or order appealed
from, and a written notice of the entry thereof. Security is not required to
perfect the appeal ; but except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by
law, the appeal does not stay the execution of the judgment or order appealed
from ; unless the court, in or from which the appeal is taken, or a judge
thereof, makes an order, directing such a stay. Such an order may be made,
and may, from time to time, be modified, upon such terms, as to security or
otherwise, as justice requires. If security is given, either as a condition of
granting the order, or as prescribed in the next section, the provisions of
title second of this chapter apply thereto, as if the general term was specified
in those provisions, in place of the appellate court, and a judge of the same
court, in place of a judge of the court below.
§ 1352. Stay of proceedings without order. Upon an appeal from a
final judgment, taken as prescribed in this title, the appellant may give the
security, required to perfect an appeal to the court of appeals, from a judg
ment of the same amount, or to the same effect ; and to stay the execution
thereof. In that case, the execution of the judgment appealed from is stayed,
as upon an appeal to the court of appeals, and subject to the same conditions.
§ 1353. Upon what papers appeal to be heard. An appeal from a
final judgment, taken as prescribed in this title, must be heard upon a cer
tified copy of the notice of appeal, of the judgment-roll, and of the case or
notice of exceptions, if any, filed, as prescribed by law or the general rules
of practice, after the entry of the judgment, and either before or after the
appeal is taken. An appeal from an interlocutory judgment, or from an
order, taken as prescribed in this title, must be heard upon a certified copy
of the notice of appeal, and of the papers used before the court or the judge,
npon the hearing of the demurrer, application for judgment, or motion, as
the case requires.
§ 1354. Entry of judgment or order ; judgment-roll. [Amended b*
Ch. 542 of 1879.] When judgment of affirmance is rendered upon the
appeal, the judgment-roll consists of a copy of the judgment, annexed to
the papers upon which the appeal was heard. Where subsequent pro
ceedings are taken, at the special term or trial term, before the entry of
final judgment, the judgment-roll must also contain the proper papers relat
ing thereto.
§ 1355. Hearing, etc., in the supreme court. An appeal taken to the
general term of the supreme court, as prescribed in this title, must be heard
in the department, embracing the county, in which the judgment or order
appealed from is entered ; unless an order is made, as prescribed in section
231 of this act, directing that it be heard in another department. The
judgment rendered, or the order made, upon the appeal, must be entered,
and the judgment-roll, or the papers upon which the appeal was determined,
as the case requires, must be filed, in the office of the clerk of the county,
where the judgment or order appealed from is entered. If the appeal is
another county, the clerk of that
county must, at the expense of the successful party, transmit a certified
copy of the determination, and the other papers, if any, required to be filed,
to the clerk of the county where the judgment or order is to be entered.
Appeal from order made in the same court.
Id. ; when made by another court or judge.
Preceding order may be reviewed.
Limitation of time to appeal.
Stay of proceedings ; hearing of appeal ; decision thereupon.
This title qualified. Application of provisions relating to actions.
§ 1356. Appeal from order made in the same court. [Amended by
Ch. 416 op 1877.] An appeal may be taken, to the general term of the
supreme court, or of a superior city court, from an order, affecting a sub
stantial right, made in a special proceeding, at a special term or a trial term
of the same court, or, in the supreme court, at a term of a circuit court ; or
made by a judge of the same court, in a special proceeding instituted before
him, pursuant to a special statutory provision ; or instituted before another
judge, and transferred to, or continued before him.
§ 1357. Id. ; when made by another court or judge. [Amended by
Ch. 416 op 1877.] An appeal may also be taken to the supreme court, from
an ordc-r, affecting a substantial right, made by a court of record, possessing
original jurisdiction, or a judge thereof, in a special proceeding instituted
in that court, or before a judge thereof, pursuant to a special statutory pro
vision ; or instituted before another judge, and transferred, to, or continued
before, the judge who made the final order. But this section does not apply
to a case, where an appeal from the order, to a court, other than the supreme
court, is expressly given by statute.
§ 1358. Preceding order may be reviewed [Amended by Ch. 416 of
1877.] An appeal authorized by this title, brings up for review, any pre
ceding order, made in the course of the special proceeding, involving the
merits, and necessarily affecting the final order appealed from, which is
specified in the notice of appeal.
An appeal, authorized by this
title, must be taken within thirty -days after service of a copy of the final
*rder, from which it is taken, with a written notice of the entry thereof,
upon the appellant : or, if he appeared, upon the hearing, by an attorney at
law or an attorney in fact, upon the person who so appeared for him.
§ 1360. Stay of proceedings ; hearing of appeal ; decision thereupon.
The provisions of title fourth of this chapter, relating to perfecting an
appeal from an order, taken as therein prescribed ; to staying the execution
of the order appealed from ; to hearing the appeal ; and to the entry and
enforcement of the order made upon the appeal, apply, were an appeal
is taken, as prescribed in this title, except as otherwise specially prescribed
by law.
§ 1361. This title qualified Application of provisions relating to
actions. This title does not confer the right to appeal from an order, in a
case, where it is specially prescribed by law, that the order cannot be
reviewed. The proceedings upon an appeal, taken as prescribed in this
title, are governed by the provisions of this act, and of the general rules of
practice relating to an appeal in an action, except as otherwise specially
prescribed by law.
To whom execution directed ; provision where sheriff is a party.
Time of receipt to be indorsed on execution.
The different Kinds of execution.
To what counties executions may issue.
General requisites of executions.
Id ; when issued on filing transcript from justice's court, etc.
Requisites of execution for the collection or money.
Id. ; against property.
Id. ; where a warrant of attachment has been issued.
Id. ; against executor, etc.
Id. ; against the person.
Id. ; for delivery of property. How money, recovered by same judgment,
may be collected.
Separate executions, where separate sums awarded.
Execution of course, within five years.
Execution, after death of judgment creditor.
When execution may be issued after five years.
Id. ; leave, how obtained.
No execution against decedent, except, etc.
Leave required to issue execution against decedent's property.
Leave, how obtained.
Time of stay by order, etc., not reckoned under this title.
Execution against surviving judgment debtors.
Sale on execution, etc. ; when and how conducted.
Penalty for taking down or defacing notice of sale.
Validity of sale, when not affected by sheriff's default, etc.
Purchases on such sales, by certain officers, prohibited.
When execution to be enforced by under-sheriff.
§ 1362. To whom execution directed ; provision where sheriff is
a party. An execution must be directed to the sheriff, unless he is a
party or interested; in which case it must be directed as prescribed in
section 173 of this act. But the court may, in its discretion, order an
execution, issued upon a judgment rendered against a sheriff, either alone
or with another, to be directed to a person, designated in the order, instead
of to the coroners, or a particular coroner; in which case it must be so
directed. The person so designated must be of full age, a resident of the
State, and not a party to the action, or interested therein. Where the execu
tion is issued upon a judgment for a sum of money, or directing the payment
of a sum of money, the order does not take effect, until the person so desig
nated executes and files in the clerk's office, a bond to the people, with at
least two sureties, approved by a judge of the court, or a county judge, in a
penal sum, fixed by the order, not less than twice the sum to be collected by
virtue of the execution ; conditioned for the faithful performance of his
duties under the execution. A certified copy of the order, and, where it
requires a bond to be given, the clerk's certificate that a bond has been filed,
as required by the order, must be attached to the execution. The person so
designated is d emed an officer; and, with respect to that execution, he is
subject to the obligations and liabilities, and has the power and authority of
a coroner, and is entitled to fees accordingly.
§ 1363. Time of receipt to be indorsed on execution The sheriff, to
whom an execution is directed and delivered, must, upon the receipt thereof,
indorse thereupon a memorandum of the day, hour, and minute, when he
received it.
§ 1364. The different kinds of execution There are four kinds of
execution, as follows :
1. Against property.
2. Against the person.
3. For the delivery of the possession of real property, with or without
damages for withholding the same.
4. For the delivery of the possession of a chattel, with or without damages
for the taking or detention thereof.
An execution is the process of the court, from which it is issued.
§ 1365. To what counties executions may issue. An execution against
property can be issued only to a county, in the clerk's office of which the
judgment is docketed. An execution against the person may be issued to
any county. An execution for the delivery of the possession of real property,
must be issued to the county, where the property, or a part thereof, is
situated. An execution for the delivery of the possession of a chattel, may
be issued to any cou:ity, where the chattel is found ; or to the sheriff of the
county where the judgment-roll is filed. Executions, upon the same judg
ment, may be issued at the same time, to two or more different counties.
§ 1366. General requisites of executions. An execution must intelli
gibly describe the judgment, stating the names of the parties in whose
favor, and against whom, the time when, and the court in which, the judg
ment was rendered; and, if it was rendered in the supreme court, the
county in which the judgment-roll is filed. It must require the sheriff to
return it to the proper clerk, within sixty days after the receipt thereof.
Except as otherwise prescribed in the next section, it must be made return
able to the clerk, with whom the judgment-roll is filed.
1367. Id ; when issued on filing transcript from justice's court, etc.
ere an execution is issued out of a court, other than that in which the
judgment was rendered, upon filing a transcript of the judgment rendered
in the latter court, it must also specify the clerk, with whom the transcript
is filed, and the time of filing; and it must be made returnable to that clerk.
If the judgment was rendered in a justice's court, it must specify the justice's
name ; and it must omit the specification, respecting the filing of the judg
ment-roll.
§ 1368. Requisites of execution for the collection of money. An
execution, issued upon a judgment for a sum of money, or directing the
payment of a sum of money, must specify, in the body thereof, the sum
recovered, or directed to be paid, and the sum actually due when it is issued.
It may specify a day, from which interest upon the sum due is to be com
puted ; in which case, the sheriff must collect interest accordingly, until the
sum is paid. If all the parties, against whom the judgment is rendered,
are not judgment debtors, the execution must show wrho is the judgment
debtor.
§ 1369. Id. ; against property. An execution against property must, if
the judgment-roll is not filed in the clerk's office of the county to which it is
issued, specify the time when the judgment was docketed in that county,
It must, except in a case where special provision is otherwise made by law,
substantially require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, out of the personal
property of the judgment debtor ; and, if sufficient personal property cannot
be found, out of the real property belonging to him, at the time when the
judgment was docketed in the clerk's office of the county, or at any time
thereafter.
§ 1370. Id. ; where a warrant of attachment has been levied by
sheriff. Where a warrant of attachment, issued in the action, has been levied
by the sheriff, the execution must substantially require the sheriff to satisfy
the judgment, as follows:
1. Where the judgment debtor is a non-resident, or a foreign corporation,
and the summons was served
wise than personally, pursuant to an order obtained for that purpose, as
prescribed in chapter fifth of this act, and the judgment debtor has not
appeared in the action ; out of the personal property attached, and, if that
is insufficient, out of the real property attached.
2. In any other case, out of the personal property attached ; and if that is
insufficient, out of the other personal property of the judgment debtor ; if
both are insufficient, out of the real property attached ; and if that is
insufficient, out of the real property, belonging to him at the time when the
judgment was docketed in the clerk s office of the county, or at any time
thereafter.
§ 1371. Id. ; against executor, etc. An execution against real or per
sonal property, in the hands of an executor, administrator, heir, devisee,
legatee, tenant of real property, or trustee, must substantially require the
sheriff to satisfy the judgment, out of that property.
§ 1372. Id. ; against the person. An execution against the person must
substantially require the sheriff to arrest the judgment debtor, and commit
him to the jail of the county, until he pays the judgment, or is discharged
according to law. Except where it may be issued, without the previous
issuing and return of an execution against property, it must recite the
issuing and return of such an execution, specifying the county to which it
was issued.
§ 1373. Id ; for delivery of property. How money, recovered by
same judgment may be collected An execution for the delivery of the
possession of real property, or a chattel, must particularly describe the prop
erty, and designate the party to whom the judgment awards the possession
thereof; and it must substantially require the sheriff to deliver the posses
sion of the property within his county, to the party entitled thereto. If a
sum of money is awarded by the same judgment, it may be collected, by
virtue of the same execution ; or a separate execution may be issued for the
collection thereof, omitting the direction to deliver possession of the property.
If one execution is issued for both purposes, it must contain with respect to
the money to be collected, the same directions as an execution against prop
erty, or against the person, as the case requires.
§ 1374. Separate executions, where separate sums awarded. Where
a judgment awards different sums of money, to or against different parties,
a separate execution may be issued, to collect each sum so awarded ; subject
to the power of the court, to control the enforcement of the executions, upon
motion, where the collection of one execution will, wholly or partly, satisfy
another.
§ 1375. Execution of coarse, within five years. Except as otherwise
specially prescribed by law, the party recovering a final judgment, or his
assignee, may have execution thereupon, of course, at any time within five
years after the entry of the judgment.
§ 1376. Execution after death of judgment creditor. [Amended bt
Ch. 416 op 1877.] Where the party recovering a final judgment has died,
execution may be issued at any time within five years after the entry of
the judgment, by his personal representatives, or by the assignee of the
judgment, if it has been assigned, and the execution must be endorsed with
the name and residence of the person issuing the same.
§ 1377. When execution may be issued after five years. [Amended
by Ch. 542 op 1879.] After the lapse of five years from the entry of a final
judgment, execution can be issued thereupon, in one of the following cases
only :
1. Where an execution was issued thereupon within five years after the
entry of the judgment, and has been returned wholly or partly unsatisfied
or unexecuted.
2. Where an order is made by the court, granting leave to issue the
execution.
§ 1378. Id. ; leave how obtained. Notice of an application for, an order
granting leave to issue an execution, as prescribed in the last section, must
be served personally upon the adverse party, if he is a resident of the State,
and personal service can, with reasonable diligence, be made upon him
therein ; otherwise, notice must be given in such manner as the court directs.
Where the judgment is for a sum of money, or directs the payment of a sum
of money, leave shall not be granted, except on proof, by affidavit, to the
satisfaction of the court, that the judgment remains wholly or partly
unsatisfied.
«
§ 1379. No execution against decedent, except, etc. An execution
to collect a sum of money cannot be issued, against the property of a judg
ment debtor, who has died since the entry of the judgment, except as pre
scribed in the next two sections.
§ 1380. Leave required to issue execution against decedent's prop
erty. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] After the expiration of one year
from the death of a party, against whom a final judgment for a sum of
money, or directing the payment of a sum of money, is rendered, the judg
ment may be enforced by execution, against any property upon which it is
a lien, with like effect as if the judgment debtor was still living. But such
an execution shall not be issued, unless an order, granting leave to issue it,
is procured from the court, from which the execution is to be issued, and a
decree, to the same effect, is procured from a surrogate's court of the State,
which has duly granted letters testamentary or letters of administration,
upon the estate of the deceased judgment debtor. Where the lien of the
judgment was created as prescribed in section twelve hundred and fifty-one
of this act, neither tne order nor the decree can be made until the expira
tion of three years after letters testamentary or letters of administration
have been duly granted upon the estate of the decedent ; and for that pur
pose such a lien, existing at the decedent's death, continues for three years
and six months thereafter, notwithstanding the previous expiration of ten
years from the filing of the judgment-roll.
§ 13S1. Leave, how obtained. Leave to issue an execution, as pre
scribed in the last section, must be procured as follows :
1. Notice of the application, to the court, from which the execution is to
be issued, for an order, granting leave to issue the execution, must be given
to the person or persons, whose interest in the property will be affected by a
sale by virtue of the execution, and also to the executor or administrator of
the judgment debtor. The general rules of practice may prescribe the man
ner in which the notice must be given ; until provision is so made therein,
it must be served, either personally, or in such manner as the court pre
scribes, in an order to show cause. Leave shall not be granted, except upon
proof, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, that the judgment remains
wholly or partly unsatisfied.
2. For the purpose of procuring a decree from the surrogate's court, grant
ing leave to issue the execution, the judgment creditor must present to that
court, a written petition, duly verified, setting forth the facts, and praying
for such a decree ; and that the persons, specified in the first subdivision of
this section, may be cited, to show cause why it should not be granted.
Upon the presentation of such a petition, the surrogate must issue a citation
accordingly ; and, upon the return thereof, he must make such a decree in
the premises as justice requires.
§ 1382. Time of stay by order, etc., not reckoned under this title.
The time during which the person, entitled to enforce a judgment, is stayed
from enforcing it, by the provision of a statute, or by an injunction or other
order, or in consequence of an appeal, is not a part of the time, limited by
this title, for issuing an execution thereupon, or for making an application
for leave to issue such an execution.
§ 1383. Execution against surviving judgment debtors. The last six
* sections do not affect the right of a judgment creditor to enforce a judgment,
against the property of one or more surviving judgment debtors, as if all the
judgment debtors were living. In that case, an execution must be issued in
the usual form; but the attorney for the judgment creditor must' indorse
thereupon, a notice to the sheriff, reciting the death o# the deceased judg
ment debtor, and requiring the sheriff not to collect the execution, out of
any property which belonged to him.
§ 1384. Sale on execution, etc., when and how conducted A sale
of real or personal property, by virtue of an execution, or pursuant to the
directions contained in a judgment or order, must be made at public auction,
between the hour of nine o'clock in the morning and sunset.
§ 1385. Penalty for taking down or defacing notice of sale. A person
who, before the time fixed for the sale in a notice of the sale of property, to
be made by virtue of an execution, willfully takes down or defaces such a
notice put up by the sheriff, or by his authority, forfeits fifty dollars to the
judgment creditor and the same sum to the judgment debtor ; unless the
notice was defaced or taken down, with the consent of the person seeking to
enforce the forfeiture, or the execution was previously satisfied.
§ 1386. Validity of sale, when not affected by sheriff's default, etc.
Ammiission by the sheriff to give notice, as required by law, or the taking
down or defacing of a notice, when put up, does not *effect the validity of a
sale, made by virtue of an execution, to a purchaser in good faith, without
notice of the omission or offense.
§ 1387. Purchases on such sales, by certain officers, prohibited.
The sheriff, to whom an execution is directed, or the under-sheriff or deputysheriff, holding an execution, and conducting a sale of property by virtue
thereof, shall not, directly or indirectly, purchase any of the property at the
sale. A purchase made by him, or to his use, is void.
§ 1388. When execution to be enforced by under-sheriff Where the
sheriff, to whom an execution is delivered, dies, is removed from office, or
becomes otherwise disqualified to act, before the execution is returned, his
under-sheriff must proceed upon the execution, as the sheriff might have
done. If there is no under-sheriff, the court, from which the execution
issued, may designate a person to proceed thereupon ; who may complete
the same, as an under-sheriff might have done. The person so designated
must give such security as the court directs. He is deemed an officer ; and
is subject to the same obligations and liabilities, and has the same power and
authority in relation to the object of his appointment, as a sheriff, and is
entitled to fees accordingly. But this section does not apply in a case where
special provision is otherwise made by law, for the enforcement of an execu
tion after the death, removal from office, or other disqualification of the
sheriff, or under-sheriff.

TITLE II.
Execution against property.
Abticlb 1. Property exempt from levy and sale.
2. Lien of an execution upon personal property ; levy upon and sale of personal
property. Rights of indemnitors of sheriff.
3. Sale, redemption, and conveyance of real property ; rights and liabilities of
persons interested.
4. Remedies for failure of title to real property sold, and to enforce contribution.
Certain special exemptions not affected by this article.
What personal property is exempt, when owned by a householder.
Additional personal property exempt in certain cases.
Woman entitled to exemption as a householder.
Military pay, rewards, etc., exempt from execution and other legal pro
ceedings.
Right of action for taking, etc., exempt property.
Burying ground ; when exempted.
How exempt burying ground designated.
Homestead ; when exempted.
How exempt homestead designated.
Married woman's homestead ; when exempted.
When exemption to continue after owner's death.
Exemption ; when not affected by temporary suspension of residence.
* So in the original.
Suction 1402. If value of homestead exceeds one thousand dollars, lien attaches to
surplus.
1403. Id. ; how proceeds to be marshalled when property is sold
1404. Exemption of real property ; how cancelled.
§ 1389. Certain special exemptions not affected by this article.
The enumeration, in this article, of the property which is exempt from levy
and sale by virtue of an execution, does not repeal any special provision of
law, relating to such an exemption, which, by its terms, is applicable only
to a particular class of persons, or corporations, or to a particular locality, or
otherwise to a special case.
§ 1390. What personal property is exempt, when owned by a
householder. The following personal property, when owned by a house
holder, is exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an execution ; and each
movable article thereof continues to be so exempt while the family, or any
of them, are removing from one residence to another :
1. All spinning wheels, weaving looms, and stoves, put up, or kept for
use, in a dwelling-house ; and one sewing machine, with its appurtenances.
2. The family bible, family pictures, and school-books, used by or in the
family ; and other books not exceeding in value fifty dollars, kept and used
as a part of the family library.
3. A seat or pew, occupied by the judgment debtor, or the family, in a
place of public worship.
4. Ten sheep, with their fleeces; and the yarn or cloth manufactured
therefrom ; one cow ; two swine ; the necessary food for those animals ; all
necessary meat, fish, flour, and vegetables, actually provided for family use ;
and necessary fuel, oil, and candles, for the use of the family for sixty days.
5. All wearing apparel, beds, bedsteads, and bedding, necessary for the
judgment debtor and the family ; all necessary cooking utensils ; one table ;
six chairs; six knives; six forks; six spoons; six plates; six tea cups, six
saucers ; one sugar dish ; one milk pot ; one tea pot ; one crane and its
appendages ; one pair of andirons ; one coal-scuttle ; one shovel ; one pair
of tongs ; one lamp ; and one candlestick.
6. The tools and implements of a mechanic, necessary to the carrying on
of his trade, not exceeding in value twenty-five dollars.
§ 1391. Additional personal property exempt in certain cases.
[Amended by Ch. 542 of 1879.] In addition to the exemptions, allowed by
the last section, necessary household furniture, working tools and team,
professional instruments, furniture and library, not exceeding in value two
hundred and fifty dollars, together with the necessary food for the team, for
ninety days, are exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an execution, when
owned by a person, being a householder, or having a family for which he
provides, except where the execution is issued upon a judgment, recovered
wholly upon one or more demands, either for work performed in the family
as a domestic, or for the purchase-money, of one or more articles, exempt as
prescribed in this or the last section.
§ 1392. Woman, etc., entitled to same exemption as householder.
[Amended by Ch. 416 of 1877.] Where the judgment debtor is a woman,
she is entitled to the same exemptions, from levy and sale by virtue of an
execution, subject to the same exceptions, as prescribed in the last two sec
tions, in the case of a householder.
8 1393. Military pay, rewards, etc., exempt from execution and
other legal proceedings. The pay and bounty of a non-commissioned
officer, musician, or private, in the military or naval service of the United
States; a land warrant, pension, or other reward, heretofore or hereafter
granted by the United States, or by a State, for military or naval services ;
a sword, horse, medal, emblem, or device of any kind, presented, as a testi
monial, for services rendered, in the military or naval service of the United
States; and the uniform, arms, and equipments, which were used by a per
son in that service, are also exempt from levy and sale, by virtue of an exe
cution, and from seizure for non-payment of taxes, or in any other legal
proceeding.
§ 1394. Right of action for taking, etc., exempt property. A right of
action to recover damages, or damages awarded by a judgment, for taking
or injuring personal property, exempt by law from levy and sale, by virtue
of an execution, are exempt, for one year after the collection thereof, from
levy and sale, by virtue of an execution, and from seizure in any other legal
proceeding.
§ 1395. Burying ground, when exempted. Land set apart as a family
or private burying ground, and heretofore designated, as prescribed by law,
in order to exempt the same, or hereafter designated for that purpose, as
prescribed in the next section, is exempt from sale, by virtue of an execu
tion, upon the following conditions, only :
1. A portion of it must have been actually used for that purpose.
2. It must not exceed in extent, one-fourth of an acre.
3. It must not contain, at the time of its designation, or at any time after
wards, any building or structure, except one or more vaults, or other places
of deposit for the dead, or mortuary monuments.
§ 1396. How exempt burying ground designated In order to desig
nate land, to be exempted as prescribed in the last section, a notice, con
taining a full description of the laud to be exempted, and stating that it has
been set apart for a family or private burying ground, must be subscribed
by the owner; acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a
deed to be recorded in the county where the land is situated ; and recorded
in the office of the clerk or register of that county, in the proper book for
recording deeds, at least three days before the sale of the land, by virtue
of the execution.
§ 1397. Homestead ; when exempted. A lot of land, with one or more
buildings thereon, not exceeding in value one thousand dollars, owned, and
occupied as a residence, by a householder having a family, and heretofore
designated as an exempt homestead, as prescribed by law, or hereafter
designated for that purpose, as prescribed in the next section, is exempt
from sale by virtue of an execution, issued upon a judgment, recovered for a
debt contracted after the thirtieth day of April, eighteen hundred and
fifty; unless the judgment was recovered wholly for a debt or debts, con
tracted before the designation of the property, or for the purchase -money
thereof. But no property heretofore or hereafter designated as an exempt home
stead, as prescribed by law, or by the next section, shall be exempt from taxation,
or from sale for non-payment of taxes or assessments. [Am'd Ch. 156 of 1883.]
§ 1398. How exempt homestead designated [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877.] In order to designate property, to be exempted as prescribed in
the last section, a conveyance thereof, stating, in substance, that it is
designed to be held as a homestead, exempt from sale by virtue of an execu
tion, must be recorded, as prescribed by law ; or a notice, containing a full
description of the property, and stating that it is designed to be so held,
must be subscribed by the owner, acknowledged or proved, and certified, in
like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county where the property ia
situated ; and must be recorded in the offire of the clerk of that county, in
a book kept for that purpose, and styled the " homestead exemption book."
§ 1399. Married Woman's homestead ; when exempted A lot of
land, with one or more buildings thereon, owned by a married woman, and
occupied by her as a residence, may be designated as her exempt homestead,
as prescribed in the last section ; and the property so designated is exempt
from sale, by virtue of an execution, under the same circumstances, and sub
ject to the same exceptions, as the homestead of a householder having a
family.
§ 1400. When exemption to continue after owner's death. The
exemption, prescribed by the last three sections, continues, after the death of
the person in whose favor the property was exempted, as follows :
1. If the decedent was a woman, it continues, for the benefit of her sur
viving children, until the majority of the youngest surviving child.
2. If the decedent was a man, it continues, for the benefit of his widow
and surviving children, until the majority of the youngest surviving child,
and until the death of the widow.
But the exemption ceases earlier, if the property ceases to be occupied, as
a residence, by a person for whose benefit it may so continue, except as
otherwise prescribed in the next section.
§ 1401. Exemption ; when not affected by temporary suspension of
residence. The right to exemption, of a person entitled thereto, as pre
scribed in the last four sections, is not affected by a suspension of the occu
pation of the exempt property, as a residence, for a period not exceeding one
year, which occurs in consequence of injury to, or destruction of, the dwell
ing-house upon the preinises.
§ 1402. If value of homestead exceeds $1,000, hen attaches to
surplus. The exemption of a homestead, otherwise valid under the pro
visions of this article, is not void because the value of the property, desig
nated as exempt, exceeds one thousand dollars. In that case, the lien of a
judgment attaches to the surplus, as if the property had not been designated
as an exempt homestead ; but the property cannot be sold by virtue of an
execution, issued upon a judgment, as against which it is exempt. After
the return of such an execution, the owner of the judgment may maintain
a judgment creditor's action, to procure a judgment directing a sale of the
property, and enforcing his lien upon the surplus.
1403. Id ; how proceeds to be marshalled when property is sold,
ere the judgment, in a judgment creditor's action brought as prescribed
in the last section, or in any other action affecting the title to an exempt
homestead, directs the sale of the property, the court must so marshal the
proceeds of the sale, that the right and interest of each person in the pro
ceeds shall correspond, as nearly as may be, to his right and interest in
the property sold. Money, not exceeding one thousand dollars, paid to a
judgment debtor, as representing his interest in the proceeds, is exempt for
one year after the payment, as the property sold was exempt; unless, before
the expiration of the year, he causes real property to be designated as an
exempt homestead, as prescribed in section 1398 of this act ; in which ca.-.e,
the exemption ceases, with respect to so much of the money, as was not
expended for the purchase of that property ; and the exemption of the
property so designated extends to every debt against which the property
sold was exempt. Where the exemption of property, sold as prescribed in
this section, has been continued after the judgment debtor's death, or where
he dies after the sale, and before payment to him of his proportion of the
proceeds of the sale, the court may direct that portion of the proceeds, which
represents his interest, to be invested for the benefit of the person or
persons, entitled to the benefit of the exemption ; or to be otherwise disposed
of, as justice requires.
§ 1404. Exemption of real property ; how cancelled. The owner of
real property, exempt as prescribed in this article, may, at any time, sub
scribe a note, and personally acknowledge the execution thereof, before
an officer authorized by law to take the acknowledgment of a deed, to the
effect that he cancels all exemptions from levy or sale by virtue of an exe
cution, affecting the property, or a particular part thereof, fully described
in the notice. The cancellation takes effect, when such a notice is recorded,
as prescribed in this article for recording a notice to effect the exemption
so cancelled. Any other release or waiver hereafter executed, of an exemption
of real property, allowed by this article, or of an exemption of a homestead,
or a private or family burying ground, allowed by the provisions of law
heretofore in force, is void. A mortgage, hereafter executed, upon property
so exempt, is ineffectual, until the exemption has been cancelled, as pre
scribed in this section ; except that such a mortgage is valid, to the extent
of the purchase-money of the same property, secured thereby.
A
Personal property bound by execution.
Order of preference among executions.
Id. ; when attachments also are issued.
Id. ; when issued from court not of record.
Title of bona fide purchasers before levy, not affected.
Execution may be levied upon current money.
Levy upon certain evidences of debt.
Interest of bailor in goods pledged may be sold.
When partners may apply for release of property levied upon.
Undertaking to be given.
Provision, where a warrant of attachment has also been levied, etc.
When the undertaking enures to other judgment creditors.
How partner's interest sold ; rights, etc., of purchaser.
Claim of property by a third person, how tried,
Proceedings, if claimant succeeds.
Inquisition not to prejudice claimant's light.
In action against officer, indemnitors may be substituted as defendants.
Notice of application and proofs thereupon.
Terms may be imposed.
When indemnity related to part of property.
Application when officer is joined with indemnitors.
Effect of the order.
Officer to whom indemnity is given, required to give notice of action,
Sale of personal property j how made.
Notices of sale to be posted.

§ 1405. Personal property bound by execution. The goods and chat
tels of a judgment debtor, not exempt, by express provision of law, from
levy and sale by virtue of an execution, and his other personal property,
which is expressly declared by law, to be subject to levy by virtue of an
execution, are, when situated within the jurisdiction of the officer to whom
an execution against property is delivered, bound by the execution, from the
time of the delivery thereof to the proper officer, to be executed : but not
before.
§ 1406. Order of preference among executions. Where two or more
executions against property are issued out of the same or different courts of
record, against the same judgment debtor, the one first delivered, to an
officer, to be executed, has preference, notwithstanding that a levy is first
made, by virtue of an execution subsequently delivered ; but if a levy upon
and sale of personal property has been made, by virtue of the junior execu
tion before an actual levy, by virtue of the senior execution, the same prop
erty shall not be levied upon or sold, by virtue of the letter.*
§ 1407. Id. ; when attachments also are issued Where there are one
or more executions, and one or more warrants of attachment, against the
property of the same person, the rule prescribed in the last section prevails,
in determining the preferences of the executions or warrants of attachment ;
the defendant in the warrants of attachment being, for that purpose, re
garded as a judgment debtor.
§ 1408. Id ; when issued from court not of record But an execution,
issued out of a court not of record, or a warrant of attachment, granted in
an action pending in a court not of record, if actually levied, has preference
over another execution, issued out of any court, of record or not of record,
which has not been previously levied.
§ 1409. Title of bona fide purchasers before levy, not affected The
title to personal property, acquired before the actual levy of an execution,
by a purchaser in good faith, and without notice that the execution has
been issued, is not affected by an execution delivered, before the purchase
was made, to an officer, to be executed.
§ 1410. Execution may be levied upon current money. [Amended
by Ch. 416 of 1877.J The officer to whom an execution against property is
delivered, must levy upon current money of the United States, belonging
to the judgment debtor; and must pay it over, as so much money collected,
without exposing it for sale ; except that where it consists of gold coin, he
must sell it, like other personal property ; unless he is otherwise directed,
by an order of a judge, or by the judgment in the particular cause.
§ 1411. Levy upon certain evidences of debt [Amended by Ch. 416
op 1877.] The officer, to whom an execution against property is delivered,
must levy upon and sell, a bill, or other evidence of debt, belonging to the
judgment debtor, which was issued by a moneyed corporation to circulate as
money ; or a bond or other instrument for the payment of money, belonging
to the judgment debtor, which was executed and issued, by a government,
State, county, public officer, or municipal or other corporation, and is in
terms negotiable, or payable to the bearer, or holder.
§ 1412. Interest of bailor in goods pledged may be sold The interest
of the judgment debtor in personal property, subject to levy, lawfully pledged,
for the payment of money, or the performance of a contract or agreement,
may be sold in the hands of the pledgee, by virtue of an execution against
property. The purchaser at the sale acquires all the right and interest of
the judgment debtor, and is entitled to the possession of the property, on
complying with the terms and conditions, upon which the judgment debtor
could obtain possession thereof. This section does not apply to property of
which the judgment debtor is unconditionally entitled to the possession.
§ 1413. When partners may apply for release of property levied
upon Where an officer has seized personal property of a partnership,
before or after its dissolution, upon a levy upon the interest therein of a
* So in the original
partner, made by virtue of an execution against his individual property, the
other partners, or former partners, having an interest in the property, or
any of them, may, at any time before the sale, apply to a judge of the court,
or to the county judge of the county, where the seizure was made, upon an
affidavit, showing the facts, for an order, directing the officer to release the
property, and to deliver it to the applicant.
§ 1414. Undertaking to be given. Upon such an application, the appli
cant must give an undertaking, with at least two sureties, approved by the
judge, to the effect, that he will account to the purchaser, upon the sale to
be made by virtue of the execution, of the interest of the judgment debtor
in the property seized, in like manner as he would be bound to account to
an assignee of such an interest ; and that he will pay to the purchaser the
balance, which may be found due upon the accounting, not exceeding a sum,
specified in the undertaking, which must be not less than the value of the
interest of the judgment debtor, in the property seized by the sheriff, as
fixed by the judge. The provisions of sections 695 and 696 of this act apply
to the proceedings, taken as prescribed in this and the last section.
§ 1415. Provision, where a warrant of attachment has also been
levied, etc. Where a warrant of attachment has been levied upon the
interest of a defendant, as a partner, in personal property of a partnership,
and the attachment has been discharged as to that interest, as prescribed in
sections 693 and 694 of this act, a levy, by virtue of an execution against
his individual property, cannot be made upon his interest in the same prop
erty, unless the warrant of attachment has been vacated or annulled.
§ 1416. When the undertaking enures to other judgment creditors.
"Where personal property of a partnership has been released, upon giving an
undertaking, as prescribed in the last three sections, if the execution by
virtue of which the levy was made, is set aside, or is satisfied without a sale
of the interest levied upon, the undertaking enures to the benefit of each
judgment creditor of the same judgment debtor then having an execution in
the hands of the same officer, or of another officer, having authority to levy
upon that interest, as if it had been given to obtain a release from a seizure,
made by virtue of such an execution.
§ 1417. How partner's interest sold ; rights, etc., of purchaser.
Where personal property of a partnership has been so released, the interest
of the judgment debtor therein may be sold by the officer ; and the pur
chaser, upon the sale, acquires all that interest, as if he was an assignee
thereof. If the purchase-money exceeds the amount of all the executions
and warrants of attachment against the property of the same judgment
debtor, of which the officer has notice, and of the lawful fees and charges
thereon, the officer must pay the surplus into court, for Jhe benefit of the
judgment debtor, or other person entitled thereto.
§ 1418. Claim of property by a third person, how tried If personal
property, levied upon as the property of the judgment debtor, is claimed by
or in behalf of another person, as his property, the officer may in his dis
cretion, empanel a jury to try the validity of the claim.
§ 1419. Proceedings, if claimant succeeds. [Amendeh by Ch. 416 of
1877.] If, by their inquisition, the jurors find that the property belongs to
the claimant, they must also determine its value. Thereupon the officer may
relinquish the levy, unless the judgment creditor gives him an undertaking,
with at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the sureties will in
demnify him to an amount therein specified, not less than twice the value
of the property, as determined by the jury, and two hundred and fifty dol
lars in addition thereto, against all damages, costs and expenses, in an action,
to be brought against him by the claimant, his assignee, or other representa
tive, by reason of the levy upon, detention, or sale of any of the property
by virtue of the execution. If the undertaking is given, the officer must
detain the property, as belonging to tie judgment debtor.
§ 1420. Inquisition not to prejudice claimant's right. If the property
is found to belong to the defendant, the finding does not prejudice the right
of the claimant to bring an action to recover the property so levied upon, or
damages by reason of the levy, detention or sale.
8 1421. In action against officer, indemnitors may be substituted as
defendants. Where an action to recover a chattel hereafter levied upon by
virtue of an execution, or a warrant of attachment, or to recover damages by
reason of a levy upon, detention, or sale of personal property, hereafter
made, by virtue of an execution, or a warrant of attachment, is brought
against an officer, or against a person who acted by his command, or in his
aid, if a bond or written undertaking, indemnifying the officer against the
levy or other act, was given, in behalf of the judgment creditor, or the
plaintifff in the warrant, before the action was commenced, the person or per
sons who gave it, or the survivors, if one or more are dead, may apply to the
court for an order to substitute the applicants, as defendants in the action, in
place of the officer, or of the person so acting by his command, or in his aid.
§ 1422. Notice of application and proofs thereupon. Notice of the
application must be given to the attorney for each party to the action. If the
defendant has not appeared, notice must be given to him personally. If the
pleadings do not sufficiently show that the case is one where the order may
be granted, the facts, with respect thereto, must be shown by affidavit, or
other competent proof. The motion papers must contain a written consent,
to be made a defendant in the action, executed by each person, who exe
cuted the instrument of indemnity, unless proof, by affidavit, is furnished,
that those who do not consent are dead. Each consent must be acknowl
edged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in
the county.
§ 1423. Terms may be imposed. Upon granting the order, the court
may, in its discretion, require the applicants to furnish additional security
to the plaintifff, and to pay the reasonable expenses of the defendant, neces
sarily incurred before the order is granted ; or it may impose such other
terms, for the security of either of the original parties, as justice requires.
§ 1424. When indemnity related to part of property. If the indem
nity, given by the applicants, related to a part only of the property, the
court may, in a proper case, direct, that the action be divided into two
actions ; that the applicants be substituted as defendants in one, without
affecting the other ; and that the controversy in each action be limited to
that part of the property, in respect to which it is to be continued. Where
such an order is made, a similar application may be subsequently made, in
the action which proceeds against the original defendant.
§ 1425. Application when officer is joined with indemnitors. If the
officer, or person acting by his command, or in his aid, is joined as a defend
ant, with all the persons entitled to make an application, they may apply
for an order to strike out his name, as a defendant. If he is joined as a
defendant, with one or more, but not all of them, those who are not made
defendants, may apply to be substituted as defendants in his place. In
either case, the application is made in the same manner, and is subject to
the same provisions, as if it was made as prescribed in section 1421 of this
act.
§ 1426. Effect of the order. An order, made as prescribed in the last
five sections, does not affect the merits of the cause of action, or of the
defense, except so far as it limits the controversy to particular property.
But if the substituted or remaining defendants recover judgment, they are
entitled to single costs only. If the action is discontinued, or the complaint
dismissed, a new action may be brought, as if the former action had not
been brought.
§ 1427. Officer to whom indemnity is given, required to give notice
of action. Where an action is brought, in a case where one or more per
sons are entitled to make an application, for an order of substitution, as
prescribed in section 1421 of this act, the officer to whom the instrument of
indemnity was given, cannot maintain an action thereupon, against a person
entitled to make, but who has not made, such an application ; unless notice
of the commencement of the action against the officer, or the person acting
by his command, or in his aid, is given, before the trial thereof, or at least
ten days before judgment by default is taken therein, either to the attorney
whose name is subscribed to the execution or warrant of attachment, or per
sonally, to the judgment creditor, or to the plaintifff in the action in which
the warrant of attachment was issued, or to one of the persons who executed
the instrument of indemnity.
§ 1428. Sale of personal property ; how made. Personal property
must be offered for 6ale, in such lots and parcels, as are calculated to bring
the highest price. Except where the officer is expressly authorized, by this
article, to sell property not in his possession, personal property shall not be
offered for sale, unless it is present, and within the view of those attending
the sale.
§ 1429. Notices of sale to be posted. At least six days' previous notice
of the time and place of a sale of personal property, by virtue of an execution,
must be given, by posting conspicuously written or printed notices thereof,
in at least three public places of the town or city where the sale is made.
To what leasehold property this article applies.
Real property held in trust, when liable to execution.
Equity ot redemption : when not to be sold.
Direction to be indorsed on execution.
Notice of sale of real property ; how given.
Property, how described therein. Part may be sold.
Penalty for irregularity in sale.
Manner of conducting' sale.
Sheriff to make duplicate certificates of sale.
Certificate to be recorded, etc.
Title to real property not divested before deed.
Rights of holder of the property during intermediate period.
Order to prevent waste ; when and how applied for.
Proceedings to punish violation of the order.
Mode and extent of punishment.
How warrant, etc., superseded.
When and how real property sold may be redeemed.
By whom such redemption may be made.
Such redemption avoids the sale.
When creditor may redeem.
What sum to be paid, etc., when creditor redeems.
Redemption by another creditor from a redeeming creditor.
Id. ; when second redeeming creditor has the prior lien.
Subsequent redemption by other creditors.
When creditor may redeem after fifteen months.
When redemption must be made at sheriff's office.
Original purchaser may redeem, when also a creditor.
Creditor may redeem again under another judgment, or mortgage.
Redemption by person entitled to redeem part.
Redemption by owners of undivided shares.
Id. ; by creditors having liens on undivided shares.
Right to redeem not affected by agreement.
To whom money paid upon redemption.
Certificate of satisfaction required to effect redemption by creditor.
What evidence a redeeming judgment creditor must furnish.
Id. ; as to mortgage creditor.
Id. ; as to executor or administrator.
Officers to keep papers open to inspection ; when to file them.
When redemption takes effect.
Certificate to be given, when redemption made.
Certificate may be acknowledged and recorded.
When and by whom conveyance to be executed.
To whom conveyance to be executed.
When conveyance made to executor or administrator ; effect thereof.
Assignment must be acknowledged and filed.
Under-sheriff or successor to act, if sheriff dies.
Money may be paid, etc., to under-sheriff, or deputy-sheriff, who sold
property.
1477. Application of this article to sale by coroner, or person specially ap
pointed, etc.
1478. Id. : where coroner or person appointed dies, etc.

§ 1430. To what leasehold property this article applies. The expres
sion, " real property," as used in this and the succeeding article, includes
leasehold property, where the lessee or his assignee is possessed, at the time
of the sale, of at least five years unexpired term of the lease, and also of
the building or buildings, if any, erected thereupon.
§ 1431. Real properly held in trust, when liable to execution.
Real property, held by one person, in trust or for the use of another, is liable
to levy and sale by virtue of an execution, issued upon a judgment recovered
against the person, to whose use it is so held, in a case where it is pre
scribed by law, that, by reason of the invalidity of the trust, an estate
vests, in the beneficiary ; but special provision is not otherwise made by law,
for the mode of subjecting it to his debts.
§ 1432. Equity of redemption ; when not to be sold. The judgment
debtor's equity of redemption, in real property mortgaged, shall not be sold
by virtue of an execution, issued upon a judgment recovered for the mort
gage debt, or any part thereof.
§ 1433. Direction to be indorsed on execution Where an execution
against property, is issued upon a judgment, specified in the last section,
to the county where the mortgaged property is situated, the attorney, or
other person who subscribes it, must indorse thereupon a direction to the
sheriff, not to levy it upon the mortgaged property, or any part thereof.
The direction must briefly describe the mortgaged property, and refer to the
book and page, where the mortgage is recorded. If the execution is not
collected out of the other property, of the judgment debtor, the sheriff must
return it wholly or partly unsatisfied, as the case requires.
§ 1434. Notice of sale of real property ; how given. The sheriff
who sells real property, by virtue of an execution, must previously give
public notice of the time and place of the sale, as follows :
1. A written or printed notice thereof must be conspicuously fastened up
at least forty-two days before the sale, in three public places, in the town or
city where the sale is to take place, and also in three public places, in the
town or city where the property is situated, if the sale is to take place in
another town or city.
2. A copy of the notice must be published at least once in each of the
six weeks, immediately preceding the sale, in a newspaper published in the
county, if there is one ; or, if there is none, in the newspaper printed at
Albany, in which legal notices are required to be published.
§ 1435. Property, how described therein. Part may be sold. In
each notice, specified in the last section, the real property to be sold must
be described with common certainty, by setting forth the name of the
township or tract, and the number of the lot, if there is any, or by some
other appropriate description. The validity of a sale is not affected by
the fact, that the property sold is part only of the property advertised to be
sold.
§ 1436. Penalty for irregularity in sale. A sheriff who sells real prop
erty, by virtue of an execution, without having given notice thereof, as pre
scribed in the last two sections, or otherwise than as prescribed in this
chapter, forfeits one thousand dollars to the party injured, in addition to the
damages which the latter sustains thereby.
§ 1437. Manner of conducting sale. Where real property, offered for
sale by virtue of an execution consists of two or more known lots, tracts, or
parcels, each lot, tract, or parcel must be separately exposed for sale. If a
person who is the owner of, or is entitled by law to redeem, a distinct parcel
of the property, of any other description, requires that parcel to be exposed
for sale separately, the sheriff must expose it accordingly. No more real
property shall be exposed for sale, than it appears to be necessary to sell, in
order to Batisfy the execution.
§ 1438. Sheriff to make duplicate certificates of sale. The sheriff
who sells real property, by virtue of an execution, must make out, subscribe
and acknowledge before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment of
a deed, duplicate certificates of the sale, containing :
1. The name of each purchaser, and the time when the sale was made.
2. A particular description of the property sold.
3. The price bid for each distinct parcel, separately sold.
4. The whole consideration money paid.
§ 1439. Certificate to be recorded, etc. The sheriff must, within ten
days after the sale, file one of the duplicate certificates, in the office of the
clerk of the county, and deliver another to the purchaser. If there are two
or more purchasers, a certificate must be delivered to each. The clerk must
immediately record the certificate in a book, kept by him for that purpose,
and must index the record, to the name of the judgment debtor. His fees
for so doing must be paid by the sheriff, as part of the expenses of the sale.
§ 1440. Title to real property not divested before deed. The right
and title of the judgment debtor, or of a person holding under him, or deriv
ing title through him, to real property, sold by virtue of an execution, is not
divested by the sale until the expiration of the period within which it can
be redeemed as prescribed in this article and the execution of the sheriff's
deed. But if the property is not redeemed, and a deed is executed in pur
suance of the sale, the grantee in the deed is deemed to have been vested
with the legal estate from the time of the sale. And if the title of such grantee
or his assigns is adjudged for any reason or cause whatsoever to be null and void,
in any action for that purpose brought by the judgment debtor or his assigns, such
judgment shall have no force or effect unless within twenty days after the entry
of such judgment the plaintifff shall pay to such grantee or his assigns the sum of
money which was paid upon the sale with interest from the time of the sale, as
prescribed in this article, including the costs and expenses of said defendant in
defending the action in which such judgment was recovered, to be adjusted by a
judge of the court in which said action is brought; and in the event of plaintifff's
failure to pay such purchase-money and expenses within the time aforesaid, said
title shall be valid in said grantee, and in case such judgment has heretofore been
recovered and an appeal has been taken therefrom which is now pending, and
such judgment shall be affirmed on final appeal, the same shall have no force or
effect unless within twenty days after the entry of judgment of affirmance the
plaintifff shall pay to such grantee or his assigm the sum of money which was
paid upon the sale, with interest as aforesaid, including the costs and expenses of
the defendant as aforesaid, in prosecuting any appeal fmm such judgment, and
in the event of plaintifff'sfailure so to do, said title shall be valid in said grantee.
[Am'd Ch. 681 of 1881.]
§ 1441. Rights of holder of the property during intermediate period
The person entitled to the possession of real property, sold by virtue of an
execution, as prescribed in the last section, may, during the period therein
specified, use and enjoy the same as follows, without being chargeable with
committing waste :
1. He may use and enjoy it in like manner, and for the like purposes, as
it was used and enjoyed before the sale, doing no permanent injury to the
freehold.
2. He may make necessary repairs to a building, or other erection there
upon. But this subdivision does not permit an alteration in the form or
structure of the building, or other erection.
3. He may use and improve the land, in the ordinary course of husbandry,
but he is not entitled to a crop, growing thereon, at the expiration of the
period of redemption.
4. He may apply any wood or timber on the land to the necessary repara
tion of a fence, building or other erection, which was thereupon at the time
of the sale.
5. If he actually occupies the land sold, he may take necessary fire-wood
therefrom for use in his household.
§ 1442. Order to prevent waste ; when and how applied for. If, at
any time during the period allowed for redemption, the judgment debtor, or
any other person in possession of the property sold, commits, or threatens to
commit, or makes preparation for committing, waste thereupon, the supreme
court, or any justice thereof, within the judicial district, or the county judge
of the county, in which the property, or any part thereof, is situated, may,
upon the application of the purchaser, or his assignee, or the agent or attor
ney of either, and proof, by affidavit, of the facts, grant without notice, an
order, restraining the wrong-doer from committing waste upon the property.
§ 1443. Proceedings to punish violation of the order. If the person,
against whom such an order is granted, commits waste in violation thereof,
after the service upon him of the order, with a copy of the affidavit upon
which it was granted, the court or judge, upon proof, by affidavit, of the
facts, may grant an order, requiring him to show cause, at a time and place
therein specified, why he should not be punished for a contempt.
J 1444. Mode and extent of punishment. If, upon the return of the
er to show cause, it satisfactorily appears, that the person, required to
show cause, has violated the former order, the court or judge may either
punish him, as prescribed by law for the punishment of a contempt of a
court of record, other than a criminal contempt ; or may grant a warrant,
directed to the sheriff of the county, reciting the former order, and the vio
lation thereof, and commanding the sheriff to commit the wrong-doer to
close confinement, for a term specified therein, not more than one year. A
person thus committed cannot be admitted to the liberties of the jail.
8 1445. How warrant, etc., superseded. The warrant may be super
seded, and the prisoner discharged, by an order, in the discretion of the
court or judge committing him, upon his executing, to the person who
applied for the warrant, an undertaking, in a sum fixed, and with sureties
approved, by the court or judge, to the effect, that he will pay any judg
ment, which the applicant or his assignee, or other representatives, may
recover against him, by reason of any waste theretofore or thereafter com
mitted on the property ; and upon his paying to the applicant, for the costs
and expenses of the proceedings, a sum, fixed by the court or judge.
§ 1446. When and how real property sold may be redeemed.
Within one year after the sale of real property, by virtue of an execution, a
person, specified in the next section, may redeem it, by paying to the pur
chaser, his executor, administrator, or assignee, or to the sheriff who made
the sale, for the use of the person so entitled thereto, the sum of money
which was paid upon the sale, with interest from the time of the sale, at the
rate of ten per centum a year.
§ 1447. By whom such redemption may be made. The redemption,
specified in the last section, may be made, either by the judgment debtor,
whose right and title were sold, or by his heir, devisee or grantee, who has
acquired, by inheritance, devise, deed, sale, by virtue of a mortgage or of
an execution, or by any other means, an absolute title to the property pro
posed to be redeemed ; or, in a case specified in section 1458 or 1459 of this
act, to a portion thereof.
§ 1448. Such redemption avoids the sale. Upon payment being made,
by a person entitled to redeem real property, as prescribed in the last two
sections, the sale of the property redeemed, and the certificates of the sale,
as far as they relate thereto, become null and void.
§ 1449. When creditor may redeem Real property, sold by virtue of
an execution, which remains, at the expiration of one year after the sale,
unredeemed by the person or persons entitled to redeem it, as prescribed in
the last three sections, may be redeemed, within three months after the
expiration of the year, by the creditors specified, and upon the terms and in
the manner prescribed, in the following sections of this article.
§ 1450. What sum to be paid, etc., when creditor redeems. In a
case specified in the last section, a creditor, having in his own name, or as
executor, administrator, assignee, trustee, or otherwise, a judgment ren
dered, or a mortgage duly recorded, at any time before the expiration of
fifteen months from the time of the sale, which is a lien upon the real prop
erty sold, may redeem that property, by paying the sum of money, which
was paid upon the sale thereof, with interest at the rate of seven per centum
a year from the time of the sale, and executing a certificate of satisfaction,
as prescribed in section 1403 of this act.
1451. Redemption by another creditor from a redeeming creditor.
ere a creditor has redeemed real property, as prescribed in the last sec
tion, any other creditor, who might have redeemed it from the purchaser,
as therein prescribed, may redeem it from the first redeeming creditor, as
follows
1. He must reimburse to the first redeeming creditor, his executor, admin
istrator or assignee, the sum paid by him to redeem the property, with inter
est at the rate of seven per centum a year, from the time of his redemption.
2. He must execute a certificate of satisfaction, relating to his judgment
or mortgage, in like manner as the first redeeming creditor was required
to do.
3. If the judgment or mortgage, by virtue of which the first creditor
redeemed, is prior to the judgment or mortgage of the second creditor, the
second creditor must also pay the first creditor, the sum specified in the
certificate of satisfaction, executed by him upon his redemption, with interest
at the rate of seven per centum a year, from the time of his redemption ;
unless the first redeeming creditor's judgment or mortgage had ceased, when
he redeemed, to be a lien as against the second redeeming creditor ; in which
case, the latter need not pay any part of the sum, specified in the certificate.
- § 1452. Id. ; when second redeeming creditor has the prior lien
Where the lien of the second redeeming creditor's judgment or mortgage, is
prior to that of the first redeeming creditor's judgment or mortgage, so that
the former redeems, without paying the sum, specified in the latter'B certifi
cate of satisfaction, the latter may, without executing another certificate of
satisfaction, again redeem from the former, or from any subsequent redeem
ing creditor, in a case, where he would have been entitled to redeem, if his
first certificate had not been executed ; and he has the same rights, with
respect to any creditor redeeming from him, as if his first certificate had
been executed, when he made his second redemption.
§ 1453. Subsequent redemptions by other creditors. A third or
other creditor, who might have redeemed, as prescribed in the last four sec
tions, may redeem from the second or any other creditor, who has redeemed,
in the manner, and upon the terms and conditions, prescribed in the last two
sections.
§ 1454. When creditor may redeem after fifteen months. A creditor,
who might have redeemed within fifteen months after the sale, as prescribed
in the last four sections, may redeem from any other redeeming creditor,
although the fifteen mouths have elapsed ; provided, that he thus redeems
within twenty-four hours after the last previous redemption.
§ 1455. When redemption must be made at sheriff's office. A re
demption made by a creditor, on or after the last day of the fifteen months,
must be made at the sheriff's office of the county. The sheriff, or his undersheriff, or a deputy-sheriff, m his behalf, must attend at the sheriff's office, for
that purpose, on the last day of the fifteen months, and on each day there
after, in which a redemption can be made, during the time when the sheriff's
office is required by law to be kept open. In the absence of the sheriff, the
redemption may be made, by paying the necessary money, and delivering
the necessary papers, to the under-sheriff, or to any deputy-sheriff, present
at the sheriff's office. If the term of office of the sheriff, who made the sale,
has expired, and he, or his under-sheriff, or a deputy-sheriff authorized, in
his behalf, to receive the necessary money and the necessary papers, is not
present, the money may be paid, and the papers may be delivered, to the
sheriff then in office, or to the under-sheriff or a deputy-sheriff of the latter.
§ 1450. Original purchaser may redeem, when also a creditor. If
the purchaser, at the execution sale, of property, which can be redeemed by
a creditor, as prescribed in this article, is also a creditor of the judgment
debtor, and as such could redeem from a purchaser, or a redeeming creditor,
he may avail himself of his judgment or mortgage, to redeem from any
other redeeming creditor.
§ 1457. Creditor may redeem again under another judgment or
mortgage. The judgment creditor, by virtue of whose execution real property has been sold, cannot avail himself of the judgment, upon which the
execution was issued, to redeem the property; nor, except as otherwise
specially prescribed in this article, can a creditor, who has once redeemed,
avail himself of the same judgment or mortgage, to redeem again But if
either has another judgment or mortgage, which would entitle him to redeem,
he may avail himself thereof for that purpose, in the same manner and on
the same terms, as any other creditor.
§ 1458. Redemption by person entitled to redeem part Where a
person, who has an absolute title to, or a judgment or mortgage, which is a
lien upon, a distinct parcel only of the real property, sold by virtue of an
execution, would be authorized, by this article, to redeem the property, if
his title or lien extended to the whole, he may redeem, from a purchaser,
the entire property sold, or from a prior redeeming creditor, the entire prop
erty redeemed by that creditor; except that if his title or lien extends to a
distinct parcel only of one or more parts of the property, which were separ
ately sold, he can redeem, from a purchaser, only the part or parts thus
separately sold, in which his distinct parcel is included.
§ 1459. Redemption by owners of undivided shares. Where two or
more persons own undivided shares, as joint tenants, or as tenants in common,
in real property, sold by virtue of an execution, or in a distinct parcel there
of, which has been separately sold ; each of them may redeem, from the
purchaser, as prescribed in sections 1446 and 1447 of this act, the share or
interest, belonging to him, by paying a part of the purchase money, bid for
the property, or for that distinct parcel thereof, bearing the same proportion
to the whole, as the share or interest, proposed to be redeemed, bears to the
property, or distinct parcel separately sold, of which it is a part ; together
with interest on the sum so paid, from the time of the sale, at the rate of ten
per centum a year.
§ 1460. Id. ; by creditors having liens on undivided shares. Where
the judgment or mortgage of a creditor, entitled to redeem, is a lien upon
an undivided share, specified in the last section, he may redeem, from a
purchaser, that undivided share, by paying him the same proportion of the
purchase money, which the owner must have paid to redeem it, as pre
scribed in the last section ; or he may redeem, from a prior redeeming
creditor, the entire property redeemed by the latter, with like effect and in
the same manner, as if his lieu attached to the whole.
§ 1461. Right to redeem not affected by agreement. The sheriff,
the purchaser, the judgment creditor or a redeeming creditor, cannot, by his
agreement or other act, in any manner impair or prejudice the right of any
other person to redeem, as prescribed in this article.
8 1462. To whom money paid upon redemption. The money required
to be paid by a creditor, in order to effect a redemption of real property, as
prescribed in this article, may be paid to the purchaser or creditor, from
whom the property is to be redeemed, his executor, administrator or
assignee ; or it may be paid, for the use of the person so entitled thereto, to
the sheriff who made the sale.
§ 1463. Certificate of satisfaction required to effect redemption by
creditor. The certificate of satisfaction, required to be executed by a
creditor, in order to effect a redemption of real property, must be acknowl
edged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in
the county; must describe, with reasonable certainty, the judgment or
mortgage under which he redeems, and specify the sum due thereupon ; and
must state, that the redemption satisfies the judgment or mortgage, in full,
or to a specified amount. It must be filed in the county clerk s office, at or
before the time when the money is paid to effect the redemption, unless the
money is paid to the sheriff; in which case, the certificate must also be
delivered, at the time of the payment, to the sheriff, who mvist file it in the
county clerk's office, as prescribed in section 1467 of this act.
The county clerk, immediately after the execution and recording of the
deed, must enter in his docket, the satisfaction, or partial satisfaction, of a
judgment specified in a certificate so filed, as required by law, when a judg
ment is collected, by virtue of an execution. If a mortgage, specified in the
certificate, is recorded in his office, he must cancel and discharge the mort
gage of record, if it is satisfied by the certificate ; or, if it is only partially
satisfied, he must make a minute of the partial satisfaction, upon the record
thereof. If the property mortgaged is situated in a county, in which there
is a register, the comity clerk must transmit a certified copy of the certifi
cate to the register, who must, in like manner, cancel and discharge the
mortgage of record, or make 'a minute of the partial satisfaction thereof.
The clerk's and register's fees, for performing the services specified in this
section, must be paid by the sheriff; who may require the person entitled to
a deed to pay him the amount thereof, before the deed is delivered.
8 1464. What evidence a redeeming judgment creditor must fur
nish. In order to entitle a creditor by judgment to redeem real property,
as prescribed in this article, he must, when he redeems, file in the county
clerk's office, or deliver to the sheriff, as the case requires, the following evi
dence of his right.
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment, under which he claims the
right to redeem, duly certified by the county clerk.
2. Each assignment of the judgment, which is necessary, to establish his
right. An assignment so filed or delivered must be acknowledged or proved,
and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded, or the execution
thereof must be proved, by the affidavit of the creditor, or of a witness
thereto ; unless it has been filed, and entered, as prescribed in article third
of title first of chapter eleventhiof this act, in which case, a certified copy
thereof must be filed or delivered.
3. An affidavit, made by him, or his attorney or agent, stating truly the
sum remaining unpaid on the judgment, at the time of claiming the right
to redeem.
§ 1465. Id ; as to mortgage creditor. In order to entitle a creditor by
mortgage to redeem real property, as prescribed in this article, he must,
when he redeems, file in the county clerk's office, or deliver to the sheriff,
the following evidence of his right :
1. A copy of the mortgage, under which he claims the right to redeem,
duly certified by the clerk or register of the county.
2. Each assignment of the mortgage, which is necessary to establish his
right, acknowledged or proved, and certified, as prescribed in the last sec
tion for an assignment of a judgment, unless it has been recorded ; in which
case a certified copy of the record must be filed or delivered.
3. An affidavit, made by him, or by his attorney or agent, stating truly
the sum remaining unpaid on the mortgage, at the time of claiming the
right to redeem.
§ 1466. Id. ; as to executor or administrator. In either of the cases
specified in the last two sections, if the person proposing to redeem, claims
to be entitled so to do, by reason of his being an executor or administrator
of a person who, if living, would be entitled to redeem, he must file or
deliver, with the other papers therein prescribed, a certified copy or a sworn
copy of his letters testamentary, or letters of administration.
§ 1467. Officers to keep papers open to inspection ; when to file
them The sheriff to whom one or more papers, specified in the last four
eections, are delivered, must keep them open at all reasonable times during
the period allowed for redemption, to the inspection of all persons interested.
He must have all those papers at the sheriff's office, at the times when he is
required to attend thereat, for the purpose of enabling creditors to redeem,
as prescribed by law; and he must file them in the county clerk's office
within three days after the execution of the deed.
§ 1468. When redemption takes effect. A redemption by a creditor is
effected only when he has paid all the money required to be paid, and filed
or delivered all the papers required to be filed or delivered, as prescribed in
this article ; and a waiver of any of those requirements is void, as against a
person who is entitled subsequently to redeem. Where a redemption is thus
effected, it vests in the redeeming creditor all the right, title and interest
which the purchaser acquired by the sale.
J 1469. Certificate to be given, when redemption made. Where a
emption is made, as prescribed in this article, the officer or other person
to whom money is paid, or a paper is delivered, for the purpose of effecting
the redemption, must execute and deliver to the person paying the money
or delivering the paper, a certificate, stating all the facts which transpired
before him with respect to the redemption.
§ 1470. Certificate may be acknowledged and recorded. Such a
certificate may be acknowledged or proved aud certified, in like manner
as a deed to be recorded in the county where the property is situated. The
recording thereof in the office of the clerk or register of that county, in the
book for recording deeds, has the same effect as against subsequent pur
chasers and encumbrancers, as the recording of a conveyance.
§ 1471. When and by whom conveyance to be executed Imme
diately after the expiration of fifteen months from the time of sale; except
where a redemption has been made on the* last day of the fifteen months,
and, in that case, immediately after the expiration of twenty-four hours from
the last redemption ; the sheriff who made the sale must execute the proper
deed or deeds, in order to convey to the person or persons entitled thereto,
the part or parts of the property sold, which have not been redeemed by the
judgment debtor, his heir, devisee, or assignee. The deed conveys to the
grantee therein the right, title, and interest which were sold by the sheriff.
§ 1472. To whom conveyance to be executed. If any part of the
property remains unredeemed by a creditor, it must be conveyed, by the
sheriff, to the purchaser upon the sale, except where the certificate of sale
has been assigned ; in which case it must be conveyed to the last assignee.
Any part or parts of the property sold, which have been rendered* by a
creditor, must be conveyed by the sheriff to the last redeeming creditor, ex
cept where he has assigned the certificate of redemption, or has executed
any other assignment of his right, title, and interest in the property re
deemed by him ; in which case, it must be conveyed to the last assignee.
§ 1473. When conveyance made to executor or administrator ;
effect thereof Where a person entitled to a deed, dies before the delivery
of the deed, the sheriff must execute and deliver the deed to his executor or
administrator. The property so conveyed must be held, in trust for the use
of the heirs or devisees of the decedent, subject to the dower of his widow,
if there is one ; but it may be sold, in a proper case, for the payment of hia
debts, in the same manner as land, whereof he died seized.
* So in the original
§ 1474. Assignment must be acknowledged and filed. Before an
assignee, or his executor or administrator, is entitled to a deed, as prescribed
in the last two sections, each assignment, under which the deed is claimed,
must be acknowledged or proved, and certified in like manner as a deed to
be recorded in the county where the property is situated, and must be filed
in the office of the clerk of that county.
§ 1475. Under-sheriff or successor to act, if sheriff dies. Where a
sheriff dies, is removed from office, or becomes otherwise disqualified to act,
at any time after making a sale of real property, by virtue of an execution,
the property, or a distinct parcel thereof, may be redeemed, by paying the
necessary money, and delivering the necessary papers, to his under-sheriff,
who must also execute and deliver the proper deed or deeds of property, not
redeemed by the judgment debtor, his heir, devisee, or grantee. If the
under-sheriff also dies, is removed from office, or becomes otherwise disquali
fied to act, the property may be redeemed, by paying the necessary money,
and delivering the necessary papers to the sheriffs successor in office, who
must also execute and deliver the proper deed or deeds. The under-sheriff
or the sheriff 's successor, as the case requires, possesses all the powers, and is
subject to all the duties and liabilities of the sheriff who made the sale,
touching the redemption and conveyance of property sold, and the proceed
ings relating thereto ; and each provision of law regulating those proceed
ings, and applicable to the sheriff who made the sale, is applicable to his
under-sheriff or successor. This section applies where a sale was made,
either before or after this act takes effect.
§ 1476. Money may be paid, etc., to under-sheriff, or deputy-sheriff,
who sold property. Where real property is sold, by virtue of an execu
tion, by the under-sheriff or a deputy-sheriff, in behalf of the sheriff, money
required to be paid, or a paper required to be delivered, to the sheriff, in
order to effect a redemption, as prescribed in this article, at any time before
the last day of the fifteen months from the time of the sale, may be paid or
delivered, either to the sheriff, or to the under-sheriff or deputy-sheriff who
made the sale.
§ 1477. Application of this article to sale by coroner, or person
specially appointed, etc. Where real property is sold, by virtue of an
execution, by a person specially appointed by the court, as prescribed in
section 1362 or section 1388 of this act, it may be redeemed, as prescribed
in this article, as if it had been sold by the sheriff, except as follows :
1. Money, required to be paid, or a paper, required to be delivered, to
the sheriff, in order to effect a redemption, as prescribed in this article, at
any time before the last day -of the fifteen months from the time of the sale,
must be paid to the officer who made the sale ; unless the person entitled to
redeem, his agent or attorney, files with the clerk of the county, with the
paper or papers required to be filed, or to be delivered to the sheriff, for the
purpose of effecting the redemption, his affidavit, to the effect, that the
officer is dead ; or has been removed ; or, where he is a coroner, that he is
no longer in office ; or that after diligent search, the affiant has been unable
to find him within the county ; in which case, the money may be paid into
court, by paying it to the county treasurer, to the credit of the cause, with
like effect, as where it is paid to the sheriff, after a sale by the latter.
2. The provisions of section 1455 of this act, apply to a redemption,
npon a sale made as prescribed in this section ; and the officer, who sold
the property, must attend, as the sheriff is therein required to attend. If
he is not present, the redemption may be effected, as prescribed in that
section, for redemption in a case, where the term of office of the sheriff,
who made the sale, has expired.
§ 1478. Id. ; where coroner or person appointed, dies, etc. If, when
the period for redemption expires, a coroner, or a person specially appointed
by the court, who has sold real property, by virtue of an execution, is dead,
or has been removed, or in the case of a coroner, if he is no longer in office, the
court must, upon the application of a person entitled to a deed, appoint a
person to exeeute the deed accordingly.

When evicted purchaser may recover purchase money
Remedy of judgment creditor thereupon,
Contribution between owners of real property.
Id. ; when part owner redeems.
Order of contribution.
Contribution, how enforced by means of original judgment.
Requisites to preserve the lien.
Entry upon the docket.

§ 1479. When evicted purchaser may recover purchase money.
The purchaser of real property, sold by virtue of an execution, his heir,
devisee, grantee, or assignee, who is evicted from the possession thereof, or
against whom judgment is rendered, in an action to recover the same, may
recover the purchase money, with interest, from the person for whose benefit
the property was sold, where the judgment was rendered, or the eviction
occurred, in consequence, either :
1. Of any irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale ; or
2. Of the judgment, upon which the execution was issued being vacated
or reversed, or set aside for irregularity, or error in fact.
§ 1480. Remedy of judgment creditor thereupon. Where final judg
ment is rendered, against the defendant, in an action specified in subdivi
sion first of the last section, the judgment, by virtue of which the sale was
made, remains, in his favor, valid and effectual against the judgment debtor
therein, his executor, administrator, heir, or devisee, for the purpose of col
lecting the sum paid on the sale, with interest. He may accordingly have a
further execution upon that judgment ; but the execution does not affect a
purchaser in good faith, or an encumbrancer by mortgage, judgment or
otherwise, whose title or whose encumbrance accrued, before the actual levy
thereof.
§ 1481. Contribution between owners of real property. Where the
real property of two or more persons is liable to satisfy a judgment, and the
whole of the judgment, or more than a due proportion thereof has been col
lected by a sale of the real property, of one or more of them, by virtue of
an execution issued upon the judgment ; the personso aggrieved, or his execu
tors or administrator, may maintain an action, to compel a just and equal
contribution by all the persons, whose real property ought to contribute as
prescribed in the next section but one.
§ 1482. Id. ; when part owner redeems. Where the heir, devisee, or
grantee, of a judgment debtor, having an absolute title to a distinct parcel
of real property, sold by virtue of an execution, redeems, as prescribed in
section 1458 of this act, the property sold, or any part or parts thereof separately sold, which include his property ; he may, in like manner, maintain
an action, to compel a just and equal contribution by those, who own the
residue of the property thus redeemed.
§ 1483. Order of contribution. Where an action is brought as pre
scribed in the last two sections, the real property is liable to contribution, in
the following order :
1. If it comprises different undivided shares or distinct parcels, which
have been conveyed by the judgment debtor, they are liable in succession,
commencing with the portion last conveyed.
2. If it comprises different undivided shares or distinct parcels, which
have been sold by virtue of two or more executions, they are liable in suc
cession, commencing with the portion sold under the last and youngest
judgment.
3. If it comprises different undivided shares or distinct parcels, some of
which have been conveyed by the judgment debtor, and some of which have
been sold by virtue of one or more executions, they are respectively liable in
succession, according to the order prescribed in the first and second subdi
visions of this section.
§ 1484. Contribution, how enforced by means of original judgment
For the purpose of enforcing contribution, as prescribed in the last section,
the court, in which the action is brought, may, and in a proper case, must,
permit the plaintifff to use the original judgment, aud to collect by an exe
cution issued thereupon, out of any real property subject to the lien thereof,
the sum which ought to be contributed by that property. For that purpose,
the lien of the original judgment, upon that real property, when preserved,
as prescribed in the next section, continues, for the term prescribed in sec
tions 1251 and 1255 of this act, to the extent of the sum, which ought to be
so contributed, notwithstanding the payment made by the party seeking
contribution.
§ 1485. Requisites to preserve the lien The lien of the original
judgment may be preserved, as prescribed in the last section, by filing, in
the clerk's office of the county where the real property is situated, within
twenty days after the payment, for which contribution is claimed, an affida
vit, in behalf of the person aggrieved, stating the sum paid, and his claim
to use the judgment for the re-imbursement thereof, with a notice, requiring
the clerk to make the entries specified in the next section, But the lien is
not preserved, as against a grantee or mortgagee in good faith, for a valu
able consideration, without notice, and before the entries are actually made.
§ 1486. Entry upon the docket. On filing the affidavit and notice, the
clerk must make, upon the docket of the judgment, an entry, stating the
sum paid, and that the judgment is claimed to be a lien to that amount.
Where it is desired to preserve the lien, upon property situated in two or
more counties, a similar affidavit and notice must be filed with, and a similar
entry made by, the clerk of each county.
In what cases execution may be issued against the person.
Id. ; against a woman.
When execution against property must be first issued.
Simultaneous executions not allowed against property and person.
Id. ; when debtor has been taken.
New execution may issue after escape.
Id. ; when debtor dies charged in execution.
Id. ; when creditor discharges debtor after thirty days.
•
New execution not to be enforced against real property sold, etc.

§ 1487. In what cases execution may be issued against the person.
[Amended by Ch. 542 of 1879.] Where a judgment can be enforced by
execution, as prescribed in section one thousand two hundred and forty of
this act, an execution against the person of the judgment debtor, may be
issued thereupon, subject to the exception specified in the next section, in
either of the following cases :
1. Where the plaintifffs right to arrest the defendant depends upon the
nature of the action.
2. In any other case, where an order of arrest has been granted and
executed in the action ; and if it was executed against the judgment debtor
where it has not been vacated.
§ 1488 Id. ; against a woman. [Amended by Ch. 542 op 1879.] Bnt
an execution cannot be issued against the person of a woman, unless an
order of arrest has been granted and executed in the action, and if it was
executed against the judgment debtor, has not been vacated.
§ 1489. When execution against property must be first issued.
Unless the judgment debtor is actually confined, without having been
admitted to the liberties of the jail, by virtue of an execution against his
person, issued in an other action, or of an order of arrest or a surrender by
his bail, in the same action, an execution against his person cannot be issued,
until an execution against his property has been returned, wholly or partly
unsatisfied. If he is a resident of the State, the execution against his prop
erty must have been issued to the county where he resides
§ 1490. Simultaneous executions not allowed against property and
person. An execution against the person of the judgment debtor cannot
be issued, without leave of the court, while an execution against his prop
erty, issued in the same action, remains unreturned ; ana an execution
against his property cannot be issued, without leave of the court, while an
execution against his person, issued in the same action, remains unreturned.
§ 1491. Id ; when debtor has been taken. Where a judgment debtor
has been taken, and remains in custody, by virtue of an execution against
his person, an other execution cannot be issued, in the same action, against
his person or his property, except in a case specially prescribed by law.
§ 1492. New execution may issue after escape. If a judgment
debtor escapes, after having been taken, by virtue of an execution against
his person, he may be retaken, by virtue of a new execution against his
person ; or an execution against his property may be issued, as if the execution, by virtue of which he was taken, had been returned, without his hav
ing been taken.
§ 1493. Id. ; when debtor dies charged in execution Where a judg
ment debtor, who has been taken by virtue of an execution against his per
son, dies while in custody, a new execution against his property may be
issued, as if the execution, by virtue of which he was taken, had been
returned without his having been taken.
§ 1494. Id. ; when creditor discharges debtor after thirty days. At
any time after a judgment debtor has remained in custody, by virtue of an
execution against his person, for the space of thirty days, the judgment
creditor may serve upon the sheriff a written notice, requiring him to dis
charge the judgment debtor from custody, by virtue of the execution.
Whereupon the sheriff must discharge the judgment debtor, and return the
execution accordingly. After service of such a notice, another execution,
against the person of the judgment debtor, cannot be issued upon the judg
ment ; but after his discharge, the judgment creditor may otherwise enforce
the judgment, as if the execution, from which he was discharged, had been
returned, without his having been taken.
8 1495. New execution not to be enforced against real property
sold, etc A new execution against property, issued in a case specified in
the last two sections, cannot be enforced against an interest in real property,
including a chattel real, which was purchased, in good faith, from the judg
ment debtor, after the recovery of the judgment upon which it is issued ; or
which was sold by virtue of an execution, issued upon a previous or subse
quent judgment.
1531. Damages recoverable ; set-off by defendant.
§ 1496. Plaintiff may recover damages with the land. In an action to
recover real property or the possession thereof, the plaintifff may demand
4a-a-propoivei*i)0 recover, damages for withholding the
property.
§ 1497. Rents and profits to be included in damages. Those dam
ages include the rents and protits or the value of the use and occupation
of the property, where either can legally be recovered by the plaintifff.
§ 1498. Mortgagee cannot maintain action. A mortgagee, or his
assignee or other representative, cannot maintain such an action, to recover
the mortgaged premises.
§ 1499. Action cannot be maintained for dower. Such an action
cannot be maintained, in a case where an action for dower may be main
tained, as prescribed in article third of this title.
1500. Separate action by joint tenant or tenant in common.
ere two or more persons are entitled to the possession of real property,
as joint tenants or tenants in common, one or more of them may maintain
such an action, to recover his or their undivided shares in the property, in
any case where such an action might be maintained by all.
§ 1501. Grantee of lands held adversely may maintain action.
Such an action may be maintained by a grantee, his heir, or devisee, in the
name of the grantor, or his heir, where the conveyance, under which he
claims, is void because the property conveyed was held adversely to the
grantor. The plaintifff must be allowed to prove the facts to bring the case
within this section. In such an action, a judgment against the plaintifff shall
not award costs to the defendant; but where the defendant is entitled t> costs, as
prescribed in section three thousand two hundred arid twenty-nine of this act, they
may be taxed, and the person who maintained the actum in the plaintifff's name
may be compelled to pay the same as prescribed in section three thousand two hun
dred and forty-seven of this act. [Am'd Ch. 399 op 1882. See § 2.]
§ 1502. Against whom action to be brought. Where the complaint
demands judgment for the immediate possession of the property, if the
property is actually occupied, the occupant thereof must be made defend
ant in the action. If it is not so occupied, the action must be brought
against some person exercising acts of ownership thereupon, or claiming
title thereto, or an interest therein, at the time of the commencement of
the action.
§ 1503. Who may be joined as defendants. In either of the cases
specified in the last section, any other person claiming title to, or the right
to the possession of, the real property sought to be recovered, as landlord,
remainderman, reversioner, or otherwise, adversely to the plaintifff, may be
joined as defendant in an action therefore
1504. When action may be brought for non-payment of rent
en six months' rent or more is in arrear, upon a grant reserving rent, or
upon a lease of real property, and the grantor or lessor, or his heir, devisee,
or assignee, has a subsisting right by law to re-enter for the failure to pay
the rent, he may maintain an action to recover the property granted or
demised, without any demand of the rent in arrear, or re-entry on the
property.
.
1505. Id. ; when right of re-entry is reserved for want of distress,
ere a right of re-entry is reserved and given to a grantor or lweor- -of real
property, in default-ef a sufficiency of goothvaad-ehattels whoroon- to distrain
for the satisfaction of rent due, the re-entry may be made, or an action to
recover the property demised or granted, may be maintained, by the grantor
or lessor, or his heir, devisee, or assignee, at any time after default in the
payment of the rent ; provided the plaintifff, at least fifteen days before the
action is commenced, serves upon the defendant a written notice of his inten
tion to re-enter, personally, or by leaving it at his dwelling-house on the
premises, with a person of suitable age and discretion ; or, if the defendant
cannot be found with due diligence, and has no dwelling-house on the prem
ises, whereat a person of suitable age and discretion can be found, by post
ing it in a conspicuous place on .the premises.
§ 1506. Action against tenant ; when proceedings to be stayed.
At any time before final judgment for the plaintifff is rendered, and the
judgment-roll is filed, in an action brought as prescribed in either of the
last two sections, the defendant may pay or tender to the plaintifff or his
attorney, or pay into court, all the rent then in arrear, with interest and the
costs of the action to be taxed ; and thereupon the complaint must be dis
missed.
§ 1507. Id. ; amount of rent in arrear to be stated in judgment.
In such an action, a verdict, report, or decision in favor of the plaintifff, must
fix the amount of rent in arrear to the plaintifff, or, if judgment is taken by
default, the amount thereof must be ascertained by or under the direction
of the court; and, in either case, it must be stated in the judgment.
§ 1508. Id, ; when possession to be restored to defendant. At any
time within six months after possession of the property, awarded to the
plaintifff in such an action, has been delivered to him, by virtue of an execu
tion issued upon a judgment rendered therein, the defendant, or any person
who has succeeded to his interest, or a mortgagee of the lease, or of any
part thereof, who was not in possession when final judgment was rendered,
may pay or tender to the plaintifff, or his executor, administrator, or attorney,
or may pay into court, for the use of the person so entitled thereto, the
amount of rent in arrear, as stated in the judgment, and the costs of the
action, with interest, and all other charges incurred by the plaintifff.
§ 1509. Id. Within three months after making the payment or tender,
the person who made it, or his representative, may apply to the court for an
order that possession of the property be delivered to him ; and thereupon,
upon proof of the facts, and payment of the sum due by reason of rent accru
ing since the judgment was rendered, and upon comx>liance with all other
terms to be complied with by the grantee or lessee, to the time of the appli
cation, the court must make an order, directing that possession of the prop
erty be delivered to the applicant, who shall hold and enjoy the same, with
out any new grant or lease thereof, according to the terms of the original
grant or lease. Notice of the application must be served upon the plaintifff's
attorney.
§ 1510. Id. ; use of property when set-off against rent If possession
of the property recovered has been delivered to the plaintifff, by virtue of an
execution issued upon a judgment in the action, the order must provide for
setting off the sum which the plaintifff has made, or which he might, without
willful neglect, have made, of the property, during the possession thereof,
against the rent accruing after the judgment was rendered, and for re-imbursement to the applicant of the balance, if any, of the sum paid into court
by him, after making the set-off prescribed in this section.
§ 1511. Property claimed in action ; how described in complaint
The complaint must describe the property claimed with common certainty,
by setting forth the name of the township or tract, and the number of the
lot, if there is any, or in some other appropriate manner ; so that, from the
description, possession of the property claimed may be delivered, where the
plaintifff is entitled thereto.
8 1512. Motion for plaintifff's attorney to produce his authority. A
defendant in an action to recover real property or the possession thereof may,
at any time before answering, upon an affidavit that evidence of the authority
of the plaintifff's attorney to commence the action has not been served upon
him, apply, upon notice, to the court or judge thereof, for an order directing
the attorney to produce such evidence.
§ 1513. Order thereupon Upon such an application, the court or judge
must, in a proper case, make an order requiring the plaintifff's attorney to
produce, as directed therein, evidence of his authority to commence the ac
tion, and staying all proceedings therein, on the part of the plaintifff, until
the evidence is produced.
§ 1514. Evidence of authority. Any written request of the plaintifff or
his agent, to the plaintifff's attorney, to commence the action, or any written
recognition of his authority so to do, verified by the affidavit of the attorney,
or any other competent witness, is sufficient presumptive evidence of such
authority.
§ 1515. When ouster to be proved. Where the action is brought by a
tenant in common, or a joint tenant, against his co-tenant, the plaintifff, be
sides proving his right, must also prove that the defendant actually ousted
him, or did some other act amounting to a total denial of his right.
§ 1516 Rule when there are distinct occupants. Where there are
two or more defendants, and it is alleged, in the answer of either of them,
that he occupies in severalty, or that he and one or more of his co-defend
ants occupy jointly, one or more distinct parcels, and that one or more other
defendants possess other parcels, in severalty or jointly, the court may, in
its discretion, upon the application of the plaintifff, and upon such terms as
justice requires, direct that the action be divided into as many actions as are
necessary. If the action is not so divided, and it appears, upon the trial,
that the allegation is true, the plaintifff must, before the evidence is closed,
elect against which defendant or defendants he will proceed ; and a judg
ment dismissing the complaint must thereupon be rendered, in favor of the
other defendants.
§ 1517. The last section qualified. The last section does not apply to a
case where two or more defendants occupy different apartments in a build
ing. In such a case, in an action to recover the building and its curtilage,
the plaintifff is entitled to judgment jointly against all the defendants who
are liable to him.
§ 1518. When plaintifff may recover against one defendant, sub
ject to rights of others. Section 1516 of this act does not apply to a case
where one or more defendants, answering as therein presented, hold under
another defendant, and the plaintifff elects to proceed agafhst the latter, sub
ject to the rights and interests of the former. In such a case, the proceed
ings against the defendants so answering must be stayed until final judg
ment; and if the plaintifff recovers final judgment against the defendant,
under whom they hold, the judgment operates as a transfer to the plaintifff
of that defendant's right, title, and interest, and the costs of the defendant
or defendants so answering, are in the discretion of the court.
§ 1519. Verdict, etc., to state nature of plaintifff's estate. A verdict,
report, or decision, in favor of the plaintifff, in an action specified in this
article, must specify the estate of the plaintifff in the property recovered,
whether it is in fee, or for life, or for a term of years, stating for whose life
it is, or specifying the duration of the term, if the estate is less than a fee.
§ 1520. Expiration of plaintifff's title before trial. If the right or
title of the plaintifff, in an action specified in this article, expires after the
commencement of the action, but before the trial, and he would have been
entitled to recover, but for the expiration, the verdict, report, or decision
must be rendered according to the fact; and the plaintifff is entitled to
judgment for his damages for the withholding of the property, to the time
when his right or title so expired.
§ 1521. Abatement of action The provisions of title fourth of chapter
eighth of this act, as applied to an action specified in this article, are sub
ject to the qualification that the court may, in its discretion, proceed as
prescribed either in that title or in the next two sections.
§ 1522. Action to be divided, when different persons succeed to
different parcels. Where, upon the death of a party, different persons
succeed to the decedent's title to, or interest in, different distinct parcels of
the property sought to be recovered, the court may, upon motion, and upon
such terms as justice requires, direct that the action be divided into as
many actions as are necessary ; and that the successor to the title or interest
of the decedent, to or in each distinct parcel, be substituted as plaintifff or
defendant, as the case requires, in the action relating thereto.
§ 1523. Id. ; when different persons succeed to real property and to
rents and profits. Where the plaintifff seeks to recover damages for with
holding the property, and, upon the death of a party, different persons
succeed to the decedent's right to or liability for those damages, and to his
title to or interest in the property, the court may, upon motion made upon
notice to the persons to be affected, and upon such terms as justice requires,
direct the action to be divided into two actions, one to recover the possession
of the property, with the rents and profits thereof accruing after the dece
dent's death ; the other to recover the damages accruing before his death ;
and that the successor in interest of the decedent, with respect to the cause
of action in each action, be substituted as plaintifff or defendant therein, as
the case requires.
§ 1524. Effect of judgment rendered after trial of issue of fact
Except in a case where it is otherwise expressly prescribed in this act, a
final judgment in an action specified in this article, rendered upon the trial
of an issue of fact, is conclusive, as to the title established in the action,
upon each party against whom it is rendered, and every person claiming
from, through, or under him, by title accruing, either after the judgmentroll is filed, or after a notice of the pendency of the action is filed in the
proper county clerk's office, as prescribed in article ninth of this title.
§ 1525. New trial may be granted. The court, at any time within
three years after such a judgment is rendered, and the judgment-roll is filed,
upon the application of the party against whom it was rendered, his heir,
devisee, or assignee, and upon payment of all costs, and all damages, other
than for rents and profits or for use and occupation, awarded thereby to the
adverse party, must make an order vacating the judgment, and granting a
new trial in the action. The court, upon a like application, made within two
years after the second final judgment is rendered, and the judgment-roll is
filed, may make an order vacating the second judgment, and granting a
new trial, upon the like terms, if it is satisfied that justice will be thereby
promoted, and the rights of the parties more satisfactorily ascertained, and
established. Not more than two new trials shall be granted under this
section.
§ 1526. Effect of judgment by default, etc. A final judgment for the
plaintifff, rendered in an action specified in this article, otherwise than upon
the trial of an issue of fact, is, after the expiration of three years from the
filing of the judgment-roll, conclusive upon the defendant, and every person
claiming from, through or under him, by title accruing, either after the
judgment-roll is filed, or after a notice of the pendency of the action is filed
in the proper county clerk's office, as prescribed in article ninth of this title.
But within five years after the judgment-roll is filed, the court, upon the
application of the defendant, his heir, devisee, or assignee, and upon pay
ment of all costs and damages awarded to the plaintifff, must make an order
vacating the judgment, and granting a new trial, if it is satisfied that jus
tice will be thereby promoted, and the rights of the parties more satisfac
torily ascertained and established , but not otherwise.
§ 1527. Id. ; exception in case of disability. In a case specified in the
last section, if the defendant is, at the time of the filing of the judgmentroll, either :
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction of a
criminal offense, for a term less than for life.
The time of such a disability is not a part of the three years, specified in
the last section ; but such a defendant, his heir, devisee, or assignee, may
commence an action for the recovery of the real property claimed, at any
time within three years after the disability ceases ; but not afterwards.
§ 1528. The last three sections qualified. The last three sections are
not applicable, where the action is founded upon an allegation of rent in
arrear ; or in a case to which section 445 of this act is applicable.
§ 1529. Possession not to be changed by vacating of judgment,
except, etc. Where the plaintifff has taken possession of real property, by
virtue of a final judgment, his possession shall not be in any way affected
by the vacating of the judgment, except as prescribed in section 1525 or
section 1526 of this act. In such a case, if the defendant thereafter recovers
final judgment in the action, it must award to him the restitution of the
possession of the property ; and he may have an execution thereupon for the
delivery of the possession to him, as if he was plaintifff.
§ 1530. Evidence on new trial. Upon a new trial, granted as pre
scribed in this article, the defendant may show any matter in defense, which
he might show to entitle him to recover the possession of the property, if he
was plaintifff in the action.
§ 1531. Damages recoverable ; set-off by defendant. In an action,
brought as prescribed in this article, the plaintifff, where he recovers judg
ment for the property, or possession of the property, is entitled to recover, as
damages, the rents and profits or the value of the use and occupation of the
real property recovered, for a term not exceeding six years ; but the damages
shall not include the value of the use of any improvements made by the
defendant, or those under whom he claims. Where permanent improve
ments have been made, in good faith, by the defendant, or those under
Proceedings on death of parties.
Ronts, etc., may be adjusted.
Partition by guardian of infant, committee of lunatic, etc.
Contents of petition.
Court may authorize partition.
Effect of releases.
When the State is interested.
Exemplified copy of judgment may be recorded.

§ 1532. When action for partition may be brought. Where two or
more persons hold and are in possession of real property, as joint tenants or
as tenants in common, in which either of them has an estate of inheritance,
or for life, or for years, any one or more of them may maintain an action for
the partition of the property, according to the respective rights of the per
sons interested therein ; and for a sale thereof, if it appears that a partition
thereof cannot be made, without great prejudice to the owners.
§ 1533. Id. ; by remainderman. Where two or more persons hold, as
joint tenants or as tenants in common, a vested remainder or reversion, any
one or more of 'them may maintain an action for a partition of the real
property to which it attaches, according to their respective shares therein,
subject to the interest of the person holding the particular estate therein.
But in such an action the property cannot be sold, and if it appears, in any
stage thereof, that partition cannot be made, without great prejudice to the
owners, the complaint must be dismissed. Such a dismissal does not affect
the right of any party to bring a new action, after the determination of the
particular estate.
§ 1534. Id. ; by an infant. An action for the partition of real property
shall not be brought by an infant, except by the written authority of the
surrogate of the county in which the property, or a part thereof, is situated.
The authority shall not be given, unless the surrogate is satisfied, by affidavit
or other competent evidence, that the interests of the infant will be promoted
by bringing the action. A judgment for a partition or sale shall not be
rendered in such an action, unless the court is satisfied that the interests of
the infant will be promoted thereby, and that fact is expressly recited in the
judgment.
§ 1535. Guardian ad litem ; how appointed. A guardian ad litem for
an infant party, in an action for partition, can be appointed only by the
court.
§ 1536. Security. The security to be given, by the guardian ad litem
for an infant party, in an action for partition, must be a bond, executed by
him and one or more sureties, as the court directs, in a sum fixed by the
court, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the trust committed to him
as guardian, and to render a just and true account of his guardianship, in
any court or place, when thereunto required. The bond must be filed with
the clerk, before the guardian enters upon the execution of his duties ; and
it cannot be dispensed with, although he is the general guardian of the
infant.
§ 1537. When heir may maintain action for partition of devised
property. A person claiming to be entitled, as a joint tenant or a tenant
in common, by reason of his being an heir of a person who died, holding
and in possession of real property, may maintain an action for the partition
thereof, whether he is in or out of possession, notwithstanding an apparent
devise thereof to another by the decedent, and possession under such a
devise. But in such an action, the plaintifff must allege and establish that
the apparent devise is void.
§ 1538. Who must be parties. Every person having an undivided
share, in possession or otherwise, in the property, as tenant in fee, for life,
by the curtesy, or for years ; every person entitled to the reversion, remainder,
or inheritance of an undivided share, after the determination of a particular
estate therein ; every person who, by any contingency, contained in a devise,
or grant, or otherwise, is or may become entitled to a beneficial interest in
an undivided share thereof; every person having an inchoate right of dower
in an undivided share in the property ; and every person having a right of
dower in the property, or any part thereof, which has not been admeasured,
must be made a party to an action for partition. But no person, other than
a joint-tenant or a tenant in common of the property, shall be a plaintifff in
the action.
The plaintifff may, at his election,
make a tenant in dower, by the cui tesy, for life, or for years, of the entire
property, or a creditor, or other person, having a lien or interest, which
attaches to the entire property, a defendant in the action. In that case, the
final judgment may either award to such a party his or her entire right and
interest, or the proceeds thereof, or may reserve and leave unaffected his or
her right and interest, or any portion thereof. A person specified in this
section, who is not made a party, is not affected by the judgment in the
action.
§ 1540. Id. ; as to persons having liens. The plaintifff may, at his
election, make a creditor, having a lien on an undivided share or interest in
the property, a defendant in the action. In that case, he must set forth the
nature of the Hen, and specify the share or interest to which it attaches. If
partition of the property is made, the lien, whether the creditor is or is not
made a party, shall thereafter attach only to the share or interest assigned
to the party upon whose share or interest the lien attached ; which must be
first charged with its just proportion of the costs and expenses of the action,
in preference to the lien.
§ 1541. Provision, where a party is unknown. Where a defendant
having a share or interest in the property is unknown, or where his name or
part of his name is unknown, and the summons is served upon him by pub
lication, or without the State, pursuant to an order for that purpose, as pre
scribed in article second of title first of chapter fifth of this act, the notice
subjoined to the copy of the summons as published, or served therewith, must,
in addition to the matters required in that article, state briefly the object of
the action, and contain a brief description of the property.
§ 1542. Complaint to state interests of parties. The complaint must
describe the property with common certainty, and must specify the rights,
shares, and interests therein of all the parties, as far as the same are known
to the plaintifff. If a party, or the share, right, or interest of a party, is
unknown to the plaintifff; or if a share, right, or interest is uncertain or con
tingent ; or if the ownership of the inheritance depends upon an executory
devise ; or if a remainder is a contingent remainder, so that the party cannot
be named ; that fact must also be stated in the complaint.
§ 1543. Title of parties may be triad. The title or interest of the
plaintifff in the property, as stated in the complaint, may be controverted by
the answer. The title or interest of any defendant in the property, as stated
in the complaint, may also be controverted by his answer, or the answer of
any other defendant ; and the title or interest of any defendant, as stated in
his answer, may be controverted by the answer of any other defendant.
A defendant thus controverting the title or interest of a co-defendant, must
comply with section 521 of this act. The issues, joined as prescribed in this
section, must be tried and determined in the action.
§ lb'44. Issues of feet, triable by jury. An issue of fact, joined in the
action is triable by a jury. Unless the court directs the issues to be stated,
as prescribed in section 970 of this act, the issues may be tried upon the
pleadings.
§ 1645. When title to be ascertained by the court. Where a defend
ant has made default in appearing or pleading, or where a party is an
•infant, the court must ascertain the rights, shares and interests of the several
parties in the property, by a reference or otherwise, before interlocutory
judgment is rendered in the action.
•
§ 1546. Interlocutory judgment. Tho interlocutory judgment must
declare what is the right, share, or interest of each party in the property,
as far as the same has been ascertained, and must determine the rights of
the parties therein. Where it is found, by the verdict, report, or decision,
or where it appears to the court, upon an application for judgment in favor
of the plaintifff, that the property, or any part thereof, is sojurcumstanced
that a partition thereof cannot be made without great prejudice to the
owners, the interlocutory judgment, except as otherwise specially prescribed
in this article, must direct that the property, or the part thereof which is so
circumstanced, be sold at public auction. Otherwise, an interlocutory judg
ment in favor of the plaintifff, must direct that partition be made between
the parties, according to their respective rights, shares and interests.
§ 1547. Partial partition ; when made. Where the right, share, and
interest of a party has been ascertained and determined, and the rights,
shares, or interests of the other parties, as between themselves, remain
unascertained or undetermined, an interlocutory judgment for a partition,
rendered as prescribed in the last section, must direct a partition, as between
the party whose share has been so determined and the other parties; to the
action. Where the rights, shares, and iuterests of two or more parties have
been thus ascertained and determined, the interlocutory judgment may also
direct the partition among them of a part of the property, proportionate to
their aggregate shares. In either case, the court may, from time to time, as
the other rights, shares, and interests are ascertained and determined, ren
der an interlocutory judgment, directing the partition, in like manner, of
the remainder of the property. Where an interlocutory judgment is ren
dered, in a case specified in this section, the court may direct the action to
be severed, and final judgment to be rendered, with respect to the portion
of the property set apart to the parties, whose rights, shares and interests
are determined, leaving the action to proceed as against the other parties,
with respect to the remainder of the property ; and, if necessary, the court
may direct that one of those parties be substituted as plaintifff.
§ 1548. Shares may be set-off in common. Where two or more par
ties to an action for partition, make it appear to the court, that they desire
to enjoy their shares in common with each other, the interlocutory judgment
may, in the discretion of the court, direct partition to be so made, as to set
off to them their shares of the real property partitioned, without partition
as between themselves, to be held by them in common.
tl549. Appointment of commissioners. Where the interlocutory
gment, in an action for partition, directs a partition, it must designate
three reputable and disinterested freeholders as commissioners, to make the
partition so directed.
§ 1550. Commissioners to be sworn, etc. Each of the commissioners
must, before entering upon the execution of *his duties, subscribe and take
an oath before an officer specified in section 842 of this act, to the effect that
he will faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the trust reposed in
him. Each commissioner's oath must be filed with the clerk, before he
enters upon the execution of his duties. The court may, at any time,
remove either of the commissioners. If either of them dies, resigns, neg
lects, or refuses to serve, or is removed, the court may, from time to time, by
order, appoint another person in his place.
§ 1551. Id. ; when to make partition The commissioners must forth- "
with proceed to make partition, as directed by the interlocutory judgment,
unless it appears to them, or a majority of them, that partition thereof, or of
a particular lot, tract, or other portion thereof, cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners ; in which case they must make a written report of
that fact to the court.
§ 1552. Partition ; how made. In making the partition, the commis
sioners must divide the property into distinct parcels, and allot the several
parcels thereof- to the respective parties, quality and quantity being rela
tively considered, according to the respective rights and interests of the par
ties, as fixed by the interlocutory judgment. They must designate the
several parcels by posts, stones, or other permanent monuments. They may
employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid them in so doing.
§ 1553. Provision where there is a particular estate. "Where a party
has a right of dower in the property, or a part thereof, which has not been
admeasured, or has an estate by the curtesy, for life, or for years, in an
undivided share of the property, the commissioners may allot to that party
his or her share of the property, without reference to the duration of the
estate. And they make partition of the share, so allotted to that party,
among the parties who are entitled to the remainder or reversion thereof, to
be enjoyed by them upon the determination of the particular estate, where,
in the opinion of the commissioners, such a partition can be made without
prejudice to the rights of the parties.
§ 1554. Report of commissioners. All the commissioners must meet
together in the performance of any of their duties ; but the acts of a majority
so met are valid. They, or a majority of them, must make a full report of
their proceedings, under their hands, specifying therein the manner in
which they have discharged their trust, describing the property divided, and
the share or interest in a share, allotted to each party, with the quantity,
courses, and distances, or other particular description of each share, and a
description of the posts, stones, or other monuments ; and specifying the
items of their charges. Their report must be acknowledged or proved, and
certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded, and must be filed in the
office of the clerk.
§ 1555. Fees and expenses. The fees and expenses of the commis
sioners, including the expense of a survey, when it is made, must be taxed
under the direction of the court ; and the amount thereof must be paid by
the plaintifff, and allowed as part of his costs.
§ 1556. Confirming or setting aside report. The court must confirm
or set aside the report, and may, if necessary, appoint new commissioners,
who must proceed as directed in this article.
§ 1557. Final judgment on report Effect thereof Upon the con
firmation, by the court, of the report of the commissioners making partition, final judgment, that the partition be firm and effectual forever, must
be rendered, which is binding and conclusive upon the following persons :
1. The plaintifff; each defendant upon whom the summons was served,
either personally, or without the State, or by publication, pursuant to an
order obtained for that purpose, as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act ;
and the legal representatives of each party, specified in this subdivision. So
much of section 445 of this act, as requires the court to allow a defendant to
defend an action, after final judgment, does not apply to an action for par
tition.
" 2. Each person claiming from, through, or under such a party, by title
accruing after the filing of the judgment-roll, or after the filing, in the
proper county clerk's office, of a notice of the pendency of the action, as pre
scribed in article ninth of this title.
3. Each person, not in being when the interlocutory judgment is rendered,
who, by the happening of any contingency, becomes afterwards entitled to a
beneficial interest attaching to, or an estate or interest in, a portion of the
property, the person first entitled to which, or other virtual representative
whereof, was a party specified in the first subdivision of this section.
But this section does not apply to a party whose right and interest are
expressly reserved and left unaffected, as prescribed in section 1539 of this
act, or to a person claiming from, through, or under such a party.
§ 1558. Judgment must direct delivery of possession. The final
judgment must also direct that each of the parties, who is entitled to posses
sion of a distinct parcel allotted to him, be let into the possession thereof,
either immediately, or after the determination of the particular estate, as the
case requires
§ 1559. Costs ; how awarded ; Id ; against unknown parties. The
final judgment for the partition of the property must also award, that each
defendant pay to the plaintifff his proportion of the plaintifff's costs, includ
ing the extra allowance. The sum to be paid by each must be fixed by the
court, according to the respective rights of the parties, and specified in the
judgment. If a defendant is unknown, his proportion of the costs must be
fixed and specified in like manner. An execution against an unknown
defendant may be issued, to collect the costs awarded against him, as if he
was named in the judgment; and his right, share, or interest in the prop
erty may be sold by virtue thereof, as if ho was named in the execution.
§ 1560. Sale of property when directed If the commissioners, or a
majority of them, report that the property, or a particular lot, tract, or other
portion thereof, is so circumstanced, that a partition thereof cannot be made,
without great prejudice to the owners thereof, the court if it is satisfied that
the report is just and correct, may thereupon, except as otherwise expressly
prescribed in this article, modify the interlocutory judgment, or render a
supplemental interlocutory judgment, reciting the facts, and directing that
the property, or the distinct parcel thereof so circumstanced, be sold by a
referee, designated in the judgment, or by the sheriff.
§ 1561. Reference to inquire as to creditors. Before an interlocutory
judgment for the sale of real property is rendered, in an action for partition,
the court must, either with or without application by a party, direct a refer
ence, to ascertain whether there is any creditor, not a party, who has a lien
on the undivided share or interest of any party. But the court may direct
or dispense with such a reference, in its discretion, where a party produces
a search, certified by the clerk, or by the clerk and register, as the case
requires, of the county where the property is situated ; and it appears there
from, and by the affidavits, if any, produced therewith, that there is no such
outstanding lien.
§ 1562. Duty of referee. Where a reference is directed, as prescribed in
the last section, the referee must cause a notice to be published, once in each
•week for six successive weeks, in the newspaper printed at Albany, in which
legal notices are required to be published, and also in a newspaper published
in each county, wherein the property is situated, requiring each person not
a party to the action, who, at the date of the order, had a lien upon any
undivided share or interest in the property, to appear before the referee, at a
specified place, and on or before a specified day, to prove his lien, and the
true amount due or to become due to him by reason thereof. The referee must
report to the court, with all convenient speed, the name of each creditor,
whose lien is satisfactorily proved before him, the nature and extent of the
lien, the date thereof, and the amount due or to become due thereupon.
8 1563. Money to be paid into court If it appears by the pleadings,
or by the evidence in the action, or by the report, that there was, at the date
of the order, any existing lien upon the share or interest of a party in the
property, the interlocutory judgment, directing the sale, must also direct
the officer making it to pay into court the portion of the money, arising
from the sale of the share or interest of that party, after deducting the por
tion of the costs and expenses for which it is liable.
§ 1564. Application for money. Where money is paid into court, in
a case specified in the last section, the party may apply to the court for an
order directing that the money, or such part thereof as he claims, be paid
to him. Upon such an application, he must produce the following papers :
1. An affidavit, made by himself, or if a sufficient excuse is shown, by
his agent or attorney, stating the true amount actually due on each incum
brance, and the name and residence of the owner of the encumbrance, as
far as they are known, or can be ascertained with due diligence.
2. An affidavit, showing service of a notice of the application upon each
owner of an encumbrance. Service of the notice within the State, must be
personal, or by leaving it at the owner's residence, with some person of
suitable age and discretion, at least fourteen days previous to the applica
tion. Service, without the State, if personal, must be made at least twenty
days previous to the application. If the owner of the encumbrance resides
without the State, and the place of his abode cannot be ascertained, with
reasonable diligence, notice may be served upon him by publishing it in the
newspaper printed at Albany, in which legal notices are required to be
published, once in each week for the four weeks immediately preceding the
application.
Upon the application, the court must make such an order as justice
requires.
§ 1565. Payment of encumbrances. When the whole amount of the
unsatisfied liens upon an undivided share, which were existing at the date of
the order of reference, has been ascertained, the court must order the por
tion of the money so paid into court, on account of that share, to be dis
tributed among the creditors having the liens, according to the priority of
each of them. Where the encumbrancer, is not a party to the action, the
clerk or other officer, by whom the lien is paid off, must procure satisfaction
thereof to be acknowledged or proved, as required by law, and must cause
the encumbrance to be duly satisfied or cancelled of record. The expense
of so doing must be paid out of the. portion of the money in court, belonging
to the party, by whom the encumbrance was payable.
§ 1566. Other parties not to be delayed. The proceedings to ascer
tain and settle the liens upon an undivided share, as prescribed in the last
three sections, shall not affect any other party to the action, or delay the
paying over or investing of money, to or for the benefit of any other party,
upon whose share or interest in the property there does not appear to be
any existing lien.
§ 1567. Sale of dower interest. Where a party has an existing right
of dower in the entire property directed to be sold, at the time when an
interlocutory judgment for a sale is rendered in an action for partition, the
court must consider and determine whether the interests of all the parties
require, that the right of dower should be excepted from the sale, or that it
should be sold.
§ 1568. Purchaser to hold the property free therefrom. If a sale
of the property, including the right of dower, is directed, the interest of the
party entitled* to the right of dower shall pass thereby ; and the purchaser,
his heirs and assigns, shall hold the property free and discharged from any
claim, by virtue of that right. In that case, the dowress is entitled to
receive, from the proceeds of the sale of the whole property, a gross sum,
in satisfaction of her right of dower, or to have one-third of those proceeds
paid into court, for the purpose of being invested for her benefit, as pre
scribed in the next section with respect to the dowress of an undivided share.
§ 1569. G-ross sum to be paid to or invested for tenant in dower,
etc. A party to an action for partition, who has a right of dower, or is a
tenant for life, or for years, in or of an undivided share of the property sold,
is entitled to receive, from the proceeds of the sale, a gross sum, to be fixed,
according to the principles of law applicable to annuities, in satisfaction of
his or her estate or interest. The written consent of the party to receive
such a gross sum, acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as
a deed to be recorded, must be filed at the time of, or before, the filing of
the report of sale ; otherwise, the court must direct that, out of the proceeds
of the sale, which belong to the undivided share to which the estate or
interest attaches, one-third, in case of a dowress, and in any other case
arising under this section, the entire proceeds, or such a proportion theref
as fairly represents the interest of the holder of the particular estate, be
paid into court, for the purpose of being invested for his or her benefit.
1570. Interests of owners of future estates to be protected
ere it appears, that a party to the action has an inchoate right of dower,
or any other future right or estate, vested or contingent, in any of the prop
erty sold, the court must fix the proportional value of the right or estate,
according to the principles of law applicable to annuities and survivorships,
and must direct that proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested,
secured, or paid over, in such a manner as it deems best calculated to pro
tect the rights and interests of the parties.
§ 1571. Married woman may release her interest. A married woman
may release to her husband her inchoate right, or dower, in the property
directed to be sold, by a written instrument, duly acknowledged by her and
certified, as required by law with respect to the acknowledgment of a con
veyance to bar her dower ; which must be filed with the clerk. Thereupon,
the share of the proceeds of the sale, arising from her contingent interest,
must be paid to her husband.
§ 1572. Unknown owners. If a person, entitled to an estate or interest
in the property sold, is made a party as an unknown defendant, the court
must provide for the protection of his rights, as far as may be, as if he was
known and had appeared.
§ 1573. Sale ; terms of credit thereupon. The court must, in the inter
locutory judgment for a sale, direct the terms of credit which may be allowed
for any portion of the purchase-money, of which it thinks proper to direct
the investment, and for any portion of the purchase-money, which is required
to be invested for the benefit of a person, as prescribed in this article.
§ 1574. Credit ; how secured. The portion of the purchase-money, for
which credit is so allowed, must always be secured at interest, by a mort
gage upon the property sold, with a bond of the purchaser ; and by such
additional security, if any, as the court prescribes.
§ 1575. Separate securities. The officer making the sale may take
separate mortgages and other securities, in the name of the county treasurer
of the county in which the property is situated, for such convenient portions
of the purchase-money, as are directed by the court to be invested ; and iu
the name of the owner, for the share of any known owner of full age, who
desires to have it invested.
§ 1576. Report of sale. Immediately after completing the sale, the
officer making it must file with the clerk his report thereof, under oath, con
taining a description of each parcel sold, the name of the purchaser thereof,
and the price at which it was sold.
§ 1577. Pinal judgment ; effect thereof If the sale is confirmed by
the court, a final judgment must be entered, confirming it accordingly;
directing the officer making it to execute the proper conveyances, and take
the proper securities, pursuant to the sale ; and also directing concerning
the application of the proceeds of the sale. Such a final judgment is bind
ing and conclusive upon the same persons, upon whom a final judgment for
partition is made binding and conclusive by section 1557 of this act ; and it
effectually bars each of those persons, who is not a purchaser at the sale,
from all right, title, and interest in the property sold.
§ 1578. Id. ; effect thereof upon encumbrancers. Such a final judg
ment is also a bar against each person, not a party, who has, at the time
when it is rendered, a general lien by judgment or decree on the undivided
share or interest of a party, if notice was given to appear before the referee,
and make proof of liens, as prescribed in section 1562 of this act, and also
against each person made a parly, who then has a specific lieu on any such undi
vided share or interest ; but a person having any such specific lien appearing of
record at the time of the filing of the notice of the pendency of the action, who is
not made a party, is not affected by such judgment. [Am'd Ch. 393 op 1883.]
§ 1579. Costs and expenses ; how paid. Where final judgment, con
firming a sale, is rendered, the costs of each party to the action, and the
expenses of the sale, including the officers' fees, must be deducted from the
proceeds of the sale, and each party's costs must be paid to his attorney.
But the court may, in its discretion, direct that the costs and expenses of
any trial, reference, or other proceeding in the action, be paid out of the
share of any party in the proceeds, or may render judgment against any
party therefore. Where a proportion of the proceeds is to be paid to, or
invested for the benefit of, any person, as prescribed in any provision of this
article, the amount thereof must be determined by the residue of the entire
proceeds, remaining after deducting the costs and expenses chargeable
against them.
§ 1580. Distribution of proceeds. The proceeds of a sale, after deduct
ing therefrom the costs and expenses chargeable against them, must be
awarded to the parties whose rights and interests have been sold, in propor
tion thereto. The sum chargeable upon any share, to satisfy a lien thereon,
must be paid to the creditor, or retained, subject to the order of the court ;
and the remainder, except as otherwise prescribed in this article, must be
paidj by the officer making the sale, to the party owning the share, or his
legal representatives, or into court for his use.
§ 1581. Shares of infants. Where a party, entitled to receive a portion
of the proceeds, is an infant, the court may, in its discretion, direct it to be
paid to his general guardian, or to be invested in permanent securities, at
interest, in the name and for the benefit of the infant.
§ 1582. Id. ; of unknown and absent owners. Where a person has
been made a defendant as an unknown person ; or where the name of a
defendant is unknown ; or where the summons has been served upon a
defendant without the State, or by publication, and he has not appeared in
the action ; the court must direct his portion to be invested in permanent
securities, at interest, for his benefit, until claimed by him or his legal
representatives.
§ 1583. Id. ; of tenants of particular estates. Where a portion of the
proceeds, representing an undivided share or interest, is invested for the
benefit of a tenant for life, or for years, or of a widow, as prescribed in the
foregoing provisions of this article, the court must cause it to be invested in
permanent securities, at interest, and the interest to be paid, from time to
time as it accrues, to the person for whose benefit it is invested, while his or
her right continues.
§ 1584. Court may require security to refund. The court may, in its
discretion, require any person, before he receives his portion of the proceeds
of the sale, to give such security as it directs, to the people, or to such parties
or other persons as it prescribes, to refund the same, or a portion thereof,
with interest, if it thereafter appears that he was not entitled thereto.
§ 1585. Security to be taken in name of county treasurer. A security
taken under any provision of this article, except as otherwise specially pre
scribed therein, must be taken in the name and official title of the county
treasurer of the county in which the property sold is situated. He, and his
successors in office, must hold the same for the use and benefit of the per
sons interested, subject to the order of the court.
§ 1586. Action thereupon. The court may, in its discretion, and upon
such terms and conditions as justice requires, make an order, allowing a perBon, interested in a security specified in the last section to maintain an
action thereupon in the name of the county treasurer.
§ 1587. Compensation to equalize partition Where it appears that
partition cannot be made equal between the parties, according to their
respective rights, without prejudice to the rights or interests of some of them,
the final judgment may award compensation to be made by one party to
another for equality of partition. But compensation cannot be so awarded
against a party who is unknown, or whose name is unknown. Nor can it
be awarded against an infant, unless it appears, that he has personal prop
erty sufficient to pay it, and that his interest will be promoted thereby.
§ 1588. Proceedings on death of parties. If, upon the death of one of
two or more plaintifffs, or one of two or more defendants, in an action for
partition, the interest of the decedent in the property passed to a person,
not a party to the action, the latter may be made defendant by the order of
the court ; and a supplemental summons may be issued, to bring him in
accordingly.
§ 1589. Rents, etc., may be adjusted. Nothing contained in this article
prevents the courts from adjusting, in the interlocutory or final judgment, or
otherwise, as the case requires, the rights of one or more of the parties, as
against any other party or parties, by reason of the receipt, by the latter, of
more than his or their proper proportion of the rents or profits of a share, or
part of a share.
§ 1590 Partition by guardian of infant, committee of lunatic, etc.
"Where an infant, idiot, lunatic, or habitual drunkard, holds real property,
in joint tenancy or in common, the general guardian of the infant, or the
committee of the idiot, lunatic, or habitual drunkard, may apply to the
supreme court, or to the county court of the county, or to a superior city
court of the city, wherein the real property is situated, for authority to agree
to a partition of the real property.
§1591 Contents of petition. Such an application must be by a peti
tion, which must describe the real property proposed to be partitioned;
must state the rights and interests of the several owners thereof; must
specify the particular partition proposed to be made ; and must be verified
by affidavit. The court may order notice of the application to be given to
such persons as it thinks proper.
§ 1592. Court may authorize partition. If, after due inquiry into the
merits of the application, by a reference or otherwise, the court is of the
opinion that the interests of the infant, or of the idiot, lunatic or habitual
drunkard, will be promoted by the partition, it may make an order, author
izing the petitioner to agree to the partition proposed, and in the name of
the infant, or of the idiot, lunatic, or habitual drunkard, to execute releases
of his right and interest in and to that part of the property, which falls to
the shares of the other joint tenants or tenants in common.
§ 1593. Effect of releases. Releases so executed have the same validity
and effect, as if they were executed by the person in whose behalf they are
executed, and as if the infant was of full age, or the idiot, lunatic, habitual
drunkard was of sound mind, and competent to manage his affairs.
§ 1594. When the State is interested The people of the State may
be made a party defendant to an action for the partition of real property, in
the same manner as a private person. In such a case, the summons must be
served upon the attorney-general, who must appear in behalf of the people.
§ 1595. Exemplified copy of judgment may be recorded An ex
emplified copy of the judgment-roll, or of the final judgment, in an action
for partition, may be recorded in the office for recording deeds, in each county
in which any real property affected thereby is situated.
Limitation of action for dower.
Against whom action to be brought.
\?ho may be joined as defendants.
Id. j where defendants claim in severalty.
Damages may be recovered ; how estimated.
Id. ; in action against alienee of husband.
Id. ; where several parcels, etc.
Id. ; against heirs, etc., aliening land,
Action barred by assignment of dower.
§ 1596. Limitation of action for dower. An action for dower must be
commenced by a widow within twenty years after the death of her husband,
but if she is at the time of his death either
1. Within the age of twenty-one years,or
2. Insane,or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction of a
criminal offense, for a term less than for life,
The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited by this
section. A nd if at any time before such claim of dower has become barred by the
above lapse of twenty years, the. owner or owners of the land subject to such dower
being in possession shall have recognized such claim of dower by any statement con
tained in a writing under seal subscribed and acknowledged in the manner entitl
ing a deed of real estate to be recorded, or if by any judgment or decree of a court
of record within the same time and concerning the lands in question, wherein such
owner or owners were parties, such right of dower shall hate been distinctly recog
nized as a subsisting claim against said lands, the time after the death of her hus
band and previous to such achiowledgment in writing or such recognition by judg
ment or decree, is not a part of the time limited by this section. [Am'd Oh. 277
op 1882.]
§ 1597. Against whom action to be brought Where the property in
which dower is claimed is actually occupied, the occupant thereof must be
made defendant in the action. Where it is not so occupied, the action must
be brought against some person exercising acts of ownership thereupon, or
claiming title thereto, or an interest therein, at the time of the commence
ment of the action.
§ 1598. Who may be joined as defendants. In either of the cases
specified in the last section, any other person, claiming title to, or the right
to the possession of the real property in which dower is claimed, may be
joined as defendant in the action.
§ 1599. Id ; where defendants claim in severalty. In an action to
recover dower, in a distinct parcel of real property of which the plaintifff's
husband died seized, or in all the real property which he aliened by one con
veyance, all the persons in possession of, or claiming title to, the property, or
any part thereof, may be made defendants, although they possess or claim
title to different portions thereof in severalty.
§ 1600. Damages may be recovered ; how estimated Where a widow
recovers, in an action therefore, dower in property of which her husband died
seized, she may also recover in the same action, damages for withholding
her dower, to the amount of one-third of the annual value of the mesne
profits of the property, with interest; to be computed where the action is
against the heir, from her husband's death, or where it is against any other
person, from the time when she demanded her dower of the defendant ; and,
in each case to the time of the trial, or application for judgment, as the case
may be ; but not exceeding six years in the whole. The damages shall not
include anything for the use of permanent improvements, made after the
death of the husband.
§ 1601. Id. ; in action against alienee of husband. Where a widow
recovers dower, in a case not specified in the last section, she may also
recover, in the same action, damages for withholding her dower, to be com
puted from the commencement of the action : but they shall not include any
thing for the use of permanent improvements, made since the property was
aliened by her husband. In all other respects, the same must be computed
as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1602. Id ; where several parcels, etc. The last two sections do not
authorize the recovery, against a defendant who is joined with others, of
damages for withholding dower, in any portion of the property not occupied
or claimed by him.
§ 1G0:J. IoL ; against heirs, etc., aliening land. Where a widow recovers
dower in real property aliened by the heir of her husband, she may recover,
in a separate action against him, her damages for withholding her dower,
from the time of the death of her husband to the time of the alienation, not
exceeding six years in the whole. The sum recovered from him must be
deducted from the sum, which she would otherwise be entitled to recover
from the grantee ; and any sum recovered as damages from the grantee,
must be deducted from the sum, which she would otherwise be entitled to
recover from the heir.
§ 1604. Action barred by assignment of dower. The acceptance, by
a widow, of an assignment of dower, in satisfaction of her claim upon the
property in question, bars an action for dower, and may be pleaded by any
defendant.
§ 1605. Collusive recovery not to prejudice infant. Where a widow
not having a right to dower, recovers dower against an infant, by the default
or collusion of his guardian, the infant shall not be prejudiced thereby ; but
when he comes of full age, he may bring an action of ejectment against the
widow, to recover the property so wrongfully awarded for dower, with
damages from the time when she entered into possession, although that is
more than six years before the commencement of the action.
§ 1606. Complaint. The complaint in an action for dower, must describe
the property, as prescribed in section 1511 of this act ; and must set forth
the name of the plaintifff's husband.
§ 1607. Interlocutory judgment for admeasurement If the defend
ant makes default in appearing or pleading ; or if the right of the plaintifff
to dower is not disputed by the answer ; or if it appears, by the verdict,
report, or decision upon a trial, that the plaintifff is entitled to dower in the
real property described in the complaint, an interlocutory judgment must be
rendered ; which, except as otherwise prescribed in this article, must direct
that the plaintifff's dower in the property, particularly describing it, be
admeasured by a referee, designated in the judgment, or by three reputable
and disinterested freeholders, designated therein, as commissioners for that
purpose.
§ 1608. Oath of commissioners, etc. ; removal ; filling vacancy.
Each of the commissioners, or the referee, as the case requires, must, before
entering upon the execution of his duties, subscribe and take an oath, before
an officer specified in section 842 of this act, to the effect, that he will faith
fully, honestly, and impartially discharge the trust reposed in him. The
oath must be filed with the clerk, before a commissioner or a referee enters
upon the execution of his duties. The court may, at any time, remove the
referee, or either of the commissioners. If either of them dies, resigns, or
neglects or refuses to serve, or is removed, the court may, from time to time,
appoint another person in his place.
§ 1609. Dower, how admeasured. The referee or the commissioners
must execute their duties in the following manner :
1. They must, if it is practicable, and, in their opinion, for the best inter
ests of all the parties concerned, admeasure and lay off, as speedily as pos
sible, as the dower of the plaintifff, a distinct parcel, constituting the onethird part of the real property of which dower is to be admeasured, desig
nating the part so laid off by posts, stones, or other permanent monuments.
2. In making the admeasurement, they must take into consideration any
permanent improvements, made upon the real property, after the death of
the plaintifff's husband, or after the alienation thereof by him ; and, if prac
ticable, those improvements must be awarded within the part not laid off to
the plaintifff; or, if it is not practicable so to award them, a deduction must
be made from the part laid off to the plaintifff, proportionate to the benefit,
which she will derive from so much of those improvements, as is included in
the part laid off to her.
3. If it is not practicable, or if, in the opinion of the referee or commis
sioners, it is not for the best interests of all the parties concerned, to admeas
ure and lay off to the plaintifff a distinct parcel of the property, as prescribed
in the foregoing subdivisions of this section, they must report that fact to
the court.
4. They may employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid in
the admeasurement.
§ 1610. Report thereupon. All the commissioners must meet together in
the performance of any of their duties ; but the acts of a majority so met are
valid. The referee, or the commissioners, or a majority of them, must make
a full report of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner in which
they have discharged their trust, with the items of their charges, and a par
ticular description of the portion admeasured and laid off to the plaintifff ;
or, if they report that it is not practicable, or, in their opinion, it is not for
the best interests of all the parties concerned, to admeasure and lay off a
distinct parcel of the property, of which dower is to be admeasured, they
must state the reasons for that opinion, and all the factB relating thereto.
The report must be acknowledged or proved, and certified in like manner
as a deed to be recorded, and must be filed in the office of the clerk.
§ 1611. Setting aside report Upon the application of any party to the
action, and upon good cause shown, the court may set aside the report, and,
if necessary, may appoint new commissioners, or a new referee, who must
proceed, as prescribed in this title, with respect to those first appointed.
§ 1612. Fees and expenses. The fees and expenses of the commis
sioners, or of the referee, including the expenses of a survey, when it is
made, must be taxed under the direction of the court; and the amount
thereof, must be paid by the plaintifff, and allowed to her, upon the taxation
of her costs.
§ 1613. Final judgment. Upon the report being confirmed by the court,
final judgment must be rendered. If the referee or commissioners have
admeasured and laid off to the plaintifff a distinct parcel of the property, the
judgment must award to her, during her natural life, the possession of that
parcel, describing it, subject to the payment of all taxes, assessments, and
other eharges, accruing thereupon after she takes possession. If the referee
or the commissioners report, that it is not practicable, or that, in his or their
opinion, it is not for the best interests of all the parties concerned, so to
admeasure and lay off a distinct parcel of the property, the final judgment
must direct, that a sum, fixed by the court, and specified therein, equal to
one-third of the rental value of the real property, as ascertained by a refer
ence or otherwise, be paid to the plaintifff, annually or oftener, as directed
in the judgment, during her natural life, for her dower in the property, and
that the sums, so to be paid, be and remain a charge upon the property,
during her natural life. The final judgment may also award damages for
the withholding of dower.
§ 1614. Plaintiff may recover sum awarded ; court may modify
judgment. The plaintifff may, from time to time, maintain an action
against the owner, or a person who was the owner of the property, to recover
any installment of the sum, so awarded to her for her dower, which became
due during his ownership, and remains unpaid. Or if an installment remains
due and unpaid, she may maintain an action to procure a sale of the property,
and enforce the payment of the installments, due and to become due, out of
the proceeds of the sale. Such an action must be conducted, as if the charge
upon the real property was a mortgage to the same effect. If, at any time,
it is made to appear to the court, that the rental value of the real property
has materially increased or diminished, the court may, by an order, to be
made upon notice to all the persons interested, modify the final judgment,
by increasing or diminishing the sum to be paid to the plaintifff.
§ 1615. Junior encumbrancers ; not affected by admeasurement
"Where a portion of the property is admeasured and laid off to the plaintifff
as her dower, a lien, which is inferior to the plaintifff's right of dower,
attaches, during the life of the plaintifff, to the residue, or to the portion or
share of the residue which was subject to it, as if the portion laid off to the
plaintifff had not been a part of the property.
§ 1616. Appeal not to stay execution if undertaking is given. An
appeal from a final judgment, awarding to the plaintifff possession of the part
admeasured and laid off to her, does not stay the execution thereof, unless
the court, or a judge thereof, grants an order directing such a stay. Such
an order shall not be granted, if an undertaking is given on the part of the
respondent, with one or more sureties, approved by the court, or a judge
thereof, to the effect that, if the judgment appealed from is reversed or
modified, aud restitution is awarded, she will pay to the person entitled
thereto, the value of the use and occupation of the part so admeasured and
laid off to her, or of the portion, restitution of which is awarded, during the
time she holds possession thereof, by virtue of the judgment.
§ 1617. Plaintiff may consent to receive a gross sum. In an action
for dower, the plaintifff may, at any time, before an interlocutory judgment is
rendered, by reason of the defendant's default in appearing or pleading, or,
where an issue of fact is joined, at any time before the commencement of the
trial, file with the clerk, a consent to accept a gross sum, in full satisfaction
and discharge of her right of dower in the real property described in the
complaint. Such a consent must be in writing, and acknowledged or proved,
and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded. A copy thereof, with
notice of the filing, must be served upon each adverse party who has ap
peared, or who appears after the filing.
§ 1618. Defendant may consent to pay it ; proceedings thereupon.
At any time after a consent is filed, as prescribed in the last section, and
before an interlocutory judgment is rendered, any defendant may apply to
the court, upon notice, for an order granting him leave to pay such a gross
sum. Thereupon the court may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as
justice requires, ascertain the value of the plaintifff's right of dower in the
property, by a reference or otherwise, and make an order, directing payment,
by the applicant, of the sum so ascertained, within a time fixed by the order,
not exceeding sixty days after service of a copy thereof ; and directing the
execution by the plaintifff of a release of her right of dower, upon receipt of
the money. Obedience to the order may be enforced, either by punishment
for contempt, or by striking out the pleading of the offending party, and
Tendering judgment against him or her or in both modes.
§ 1619. Interlocutory judgment for sale. Where the plaintifff's conooiit
has been filed, as prescribed in the last section but one, and she is entitled
to an interlocutory judgment in the action, the court must, upon the applica
tion of either party, ascertain, by a reference or otherwise, whether a distinct
parcel of the property can be admeasured and laid off to the plaintifff, as
tenant in dower, without material injury to the interests of the parties. If
it appear to the court, that a distinct parcel cannot be so admeasured and
laid off, the interlocutory judgment must, except in the case specified in the
next section, direct that the property be sold by the sheriff, or by a referee
designated therein ; and that, upon the confirmation of the sale, each party
to the action, and every person deriving title from, through, or under a
party, after the filing of the judgment-roll, or of a notice of the pendency of
the action, as prescribed in article ninth of this title, be barred of and from
any right, title, or interest in or to the property sold.
§ 1620. Id. ; directing a part to be laid off In a case specified in
section 1617 of this act, where the property, or a part thereof, consists of one
or more vacant or unimproved lots, the plaintifff's consent may contain a
stipulation to take a distinct parcel out of those lots, in lieu of a gross sum.
In that case, the interlocutory judgment, instead of directing a sale, may
direct, if it appear to be just so to do, that commissioners be appointed to
admeasure and lay off to the plaintifff a distinct parcel, out of the vacant or
unimproved lots ; and, if there is any other property, that it be sold, and a
gross sum be paid to her out of the proceeds thereof, as prescribed in the
next three sections. The plaintifff's title to each distinct parcel, admeasured
and laid off to her, as prescribed in this section, is that of an estate of inheritance in fee simple.
same, the commissioners must consider quantity and quality relatively, according to the value
of the plaintifff's right of dower in the vacant or unimproved lots, out of
which the admeasurement is to be made ; which must be ascertained, in pro
portion to the value of those lots, as prescribed, in the next three sections, for
fixing a gross sum to be paid to her out of the proceeds of a sale.
§ 1621. Liens to be ascertained Before an interlocutory judgment is
rendered for the sale of the property, the court must direct a reference to
ascertain whether any person, not a party, has a lien upon the property, or
any part thereof. Except aa otherwise expressly prescribed in this article,
the proceedings upon and subsequent to the reference must be the same, as
prescribed in article second of this title, where a reference is made as pre
scribed in section 1561 of this act.
§ 1622. Id. ; payment of ; or sale subject to. Where the interlocutory
judgment directs a sale, if the right of dower of the plaintifff is inferior to
any other lien upon the property, the judgment may, in the discretion of the
court, direct that the property be sold either subject to the lien, or discharged
from the lien ; and, in the latter case, that the officer making the sale pay
the amount of the lien, out of the proceeds of the sale.

§ 1623 Report of sale. Immediately after completing the sale, and
executing the proper conveyance to the purchaser, the officer making the
sale must make and file with the clerk a report thereof, showing the name
of the purchaser, and the purchase-price paid by him, or, if the property
was sold in parcels, the name of each purchaser, and the price and a descrip
tion of the parcel sold to him ; the sums which the officer has paid out of the
proceeds of the sale, pursuant to the interlocutory judgment; the purpose
for which each payment was made; the amount and items of his fees
and expenses ; and the net amount of the proceeds, after deducting the
payments.
§ 1624. Final judgment thereon. Upon confirming the sale, the court
must ascertain by a reference or otherwise, the rights and interests of each
of the parties in and to the proceeds of the sale, and also what gross sum of
money is equal to the value of the plaintifff's dower in the net proceeds of
the sale, calculated upon the principles applicable to life annuities. The
court must thereupon render final judgment, confirming the sale, and direct
ing that the gross sum so ascertained be paid to the plaintifff, in full satis
faction of her right of dower ; and that the remainder of the proceeds of
the sale be distributed among the persons entitled thereto.
§ 1625. Certain provisions of article second made applicable. The
provisions of article second of this title, relating to a sale made as prescribed
in that article, and to the distribution, investment, and care of the proceeds,
apply, as far as they are applicable, to a sale made as prescribed in this
article, and to the distribution of the proceeds of a sale, as prescribed in
the last section.

Final jndgment ; what to contain.
Person liable for mortgage debt may be made defendant, etc
Other actions for moi-tgage debt, when prohibited.
Complaint to state whether such action brought.
If judgment rendered therein, execution must be returned.
Notice of pendency of action to be filed.
Effect of conveyance upon Hale.
Disposition of surplus.
When complaint to be dismissed on payment of sum due.
Payment after judgment ; when proceedings to be stayed.
When part only of the property to be sold.
When the whole property may be sold.

§ 1626. Final judgment ; what to contain In an action to foreclose a
mortgage upon real property, if the plaintifff becomes entitled to final judg
ment, it must direct the sale of the property mortgaged, or of such part
thereof as is sufficient to discharge the mortgage debt, the expenses of the
sale, and the cost of the action.
§ 1627. Person liable for mortgage debt may be made defendant,
etc. Any person, who is liable to the plaintifff for the payment of the debt
secured by the mortgage, may be made a defendant in the action ; and if
he has appeared, or has been personally served with the summons, the final
judgment may award payment by him of the residue of the debt remaining
unsatisfied, after a sale of the mortgaged property, and the application of
the proceeds, pursuant to the directions contained therein.
§ 1628. Other actions for mortgage debt, when prohibited. While
an action to foreclose a mortgage upon real property is pending, or after
final judgment for the plaintifff therein, no other action shall be commenced
or maintained, to recover any part of the mortgage debt, without leave of
the court in which the former action was brought.
§ 1629. Complaint to state whether such action brought. The com
plaint, in an action to foreclose a mortgage upon real property, must state,
whether any other action has been brought to recover any part of the mort
gage debt, and, if so, whether any part thereof has been collected.
§ 1630. If judgment rendered therein, execution must be returned
"Where a final judgment for the plaintifff has been rendered, in an action to
recover any part of the mortgage debt, an action shall not be commenced or
maintained to foreclose the mortgage, unless an execution against the prop
erty of the defendant has been issued, upon the judgment, to the sheriff of
the county where he resides, if he resides within the State, or, if he resides
without the State, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment-roll is
filed ; and has been returned wholly or partly unsatisfied.
§ 1631. Notice of pendency of action to be filed The plaintifff must,
at least twenty days before a final judgment directing a sale is rendered,
file, in the clerk's office of each county where the mortgaged property is
situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, as prescribed in section
1670 of this act ; which must specify, in addition to the particulars required
by that section, the date of the mortgage, the parties thereto, and the time
and place of recording it.
§ 1632. Effect of conveyance upon sale. A conveyance upon a sale,
made pursuant to a final judgment, in an action to foreclose a mortgage
upon real property, vests in the purchaser the same estate, only, that would
have vested in the mortgagee, if the equity of redemption had been fore
closed. Such a conveyance is as valid, as if it was executed by the mort
gagor and mortgagee, and is an entire bar against each of them, and
against each party to the action who was duly summoned, and every person
claiming from, through, or under a party, by title accruing after the filing
of the notice of the pendency of the action, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1633. Disposition of surplus. If there is any surplus of the proceeds
of the sale, after paying the expenses of the sale, and satisfying the mort
gage debt and the costs of the action, it must be paid into court, for the use
of the person or persons entitled thereto. If any part of the surplus remains
in court for the period of three months, the court must, if no application has
been made therefore, and may, if an application therefore is pending, direct
it to be invested at interest, for the benefit of the person or persons entitled
thereto, to be paid upon the direction of the court.
§ 1634. When complaint to be dismissed on payment of sum due.
Where an action is brought to foreclose a mortgage upon real property, upon
which a portion of the principal or interest is due, and another portion of
either is to become due, the complaint must be dismissed, without costs
against the plaintifff, upon the defendant paying into court at any time
before a final judgment directing a sale is rendered, the sum due, and the
plaintifff's costs.
§ 1635. Payment after judgment ; when proceedings to be stayed
In a case specified in the last section, if, after a final judgment directing a
sale is rendered, but before the sale is made, the defendant pays into court
the amount due for principal and interest and the costs of the action,
together with the expenses of the proceedings to sell, if any, all proceedings
upon the judgment must be stayed ; but upon a subsequent default in the
payment of principal or interest, the court may make an order directing the
enforcement of the judgment, for the purpose of collecting the sum then
due.
§ 1636. When part only of the property to be sold. Where the mort
gage debt is not all due, and the mortgaged property is so circumstanced,
that it can be sold in parcels without injury to the interests of the parties,
the final judgment must direct, that no more of the property be sold, in
the first place, than is sufficient to satisfy the sum then due, with the costs
of the action and expenses of the sale ; and that, upon a subsequent default
in the payment of principal or interest, the plaintifff may apply for an
order, directing the sale of the residue, or of so much thereof as is necessary
to satisfy the amount then due, with the costs of the application, and the
expenses of the sale. The plaintifff may apply for and obtain such an order,
as often as a default happens.
§ 1637. When the whole property may be sold. If, in a case speci
fied in the last three sections, it appears that the mortgaged property is so
circumstanced, that a sale of the whole will be most beneficial to the parties,
the final judgment must direct, that the whole property be sold ; that the
proceeds of the sale, after deducting the costs of the action, and the
expenses of the sale, be either applied to the satisfaction of the whole sum
secured by the mortgage with such a rebate of interest, as justice requires ;
or be first applied to the payment of the sum due, and the balance, or so
much thereof as is necessary, be invested at interest, for the benefit of the
plaintifff, to be paid to him from time to time, as any part of the principal or
interest becomes due.

Who may maintain action.
Complaint.
Proceedings when defendant denies plaintifff's title.
Id. ; when he pleads title.
Proceedings the same as in ejectment.
Proceedings when defendant claims in reversion or remainder.
Judgment awarding defendant possession, etc.
Judgment for plaintifff.
Effect of judgment.
Action to determine widow's dower.
Proceedings, if plaintifff admits defendant's claim.
Id. ; when defendant's claim is denied.
This article applies to corporations.

tl638. Who may maintain action Where a person has been, or he
those whose estate he has, have been for three years, in the actual pos
session of real property, claiming it in fee, or for life, or for a term of years
not less than ten, he may maintain an action against any other person,
except a person who is, when the action is commenced, an infant, an idiot,
a lunatic, an habitual drunkard, or imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in
execution upon conviction of a criminal offense, to compel the determination
of any claim adverse to that of the plaintifff, which the defendant makes,
to any estate in that property, in fee, or for life, or for a term of years not
less than ten, in possession, reversion, or remainder. But this section does
not apply to a claim for dower.
§ 1639. Complaint. The complaint in such an action must set forth facts
showing: 1. The plaintifff's right to the real property ; whether his estate
therein is in fee, or for life, or for a term of years not less than ten ; and
whether he holds it as heir, devisee, or purchaser, with the source from or
means by which, his title immediately accrued to him.
2. That the property, at the commencement of the action, was, and, for
the three years next preceding, has been in his actual possession, or in the
actual possession of himself and those from whom he derives his title.
3. That the defendant unjustly claims an estate therein, of the character
specified in the last section.
The complaint must describe the property as prescribed in section 1511 of
this act. The demand of judgment must be to the effect, that the defendant,
and every person claiming under him, be forever barred from all claim to
any estate of inheritance, or freehold, or for a term of years not less than
ten, in possession, reversion, or remainder, in the property described in the
complaint.
§ 1640. Proceedings when, defendant denies plaintifff's title. If the
defendant, in his answer, puts in issue the matters specified in subdivision
second of the last section, and succeeds upon that defense, final judgment'
must be rendered in his favor, dismissing the complaint, and awarding to
him costs against the plaintifff.
§ 1641. Id. ; when he pleads title. The defendant may, in his answer,
either with or without the defense specified in the last section, set forth
facts, showing that he has an estate in the property, or any part thereof,
adverse to the plaintifff, in fee, or for life, or for a term of years not less than
ten, in possession, reversion, or remainder, as in a complaint for the same
cause of action ; and thereupon he may demand any judgment to which he
would be entitled, in an action brought by him to recover that estate therein.
§ 1642. Proceedings the same as in ejectment. Where an issue of fact
is joined, in an action brought as prescribed in this article, the subsequent
proceedings, including the trial, judgment, and execution, are the same as
if it was an action of ejectment, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in
this title.
§ 1643. Proceedings when defendant claims in reversion or re
mainder. Where the defendant claims the property in question, or any
part thereof, by virtue of an estate in remainder or reversion, he need not
establish a right to the immediate possession thereof ; but where the verdict,
report, or decision finds that he has such an estate, it must specify the time
when, or the contingency upon which, he will be entitled to possession ; and
final judgment to that effect must be rendered accordingly, without dam
ages. In such a case, an execution for the delivery of the possession of the
property may be issued upon the judgment ; but only by the special order
of the court, made upon an application by the defendant, or a person claim
ing under him, and satisfactory proof that the time has arrived when, or the
contingency has happened upon which, the applicant is entitled to possession
by the terms of the judgment.
§ 1644. Judgment awarding defendant possession, etc. Where a
final judgment, in favor of the defendant, determines that he is entitled to
the immediate possession of the property, it must award him possession
accordingly. The final judgment must also award to him his damages for
the withholding of the property, as in an action of ejectment.
§ 1645. Judgment for plaintifff Final judgment for the plaintifff must
be to the effect, that the defendant, and every person claiming under him,
by title accruing after the filing of the judgment-roll, or of the notice of the
Eendency of the action, as prescribed in article ninth of this title, be forever
arred from all claim to any estate of inheritance, or for life, or for a term
of years not less than ten, in the property. If such a judgment is taken
upon the defendant's default in appearing or pleading, it shall not award
costs to either party, unless it is taken upon a default in answering, after
the decision of a demurrer to the complaint.
§ 1646. Effect of judgment. A final judgment in favor of either party,
in an action brought as prescribed in this article, is conclusive against the
other party, as to the title established in the action ; and also against every
person claiming from, through, or under that party, by title accruing after
the filing of the judgment-roll, or of the notice of the pendency of the action,
as prescribed in article ninth of this title. But where the defendant, by his
answer, claims an estate adverse to the plaintifff, entitling him to the imme
diate possession of the property, the unsuccessful party is entitled to a new
trial, within the same time and under the same circumstances, as where judg
ment is rendered in an action of ejectment, upon the trial of an issue of fact.
§ 1647. Action to determine widow's dower. A person claiming, aa
owner, an estate in fee, for life, or for years, in real property, may maintain
an action against a woman, who claims to have a right of dower in the whole
or a part of the property, to compel the determination of her claim, unless
she is under one of the disabilities specified in section 1638 of this act. But
such an action cannot be commenced, until the expiration of four months
after the death of the defendant's husband.
§ 1648. Proceedings, if plaintifff admits defendant's claim. In an
action brought as specified in the last section, if the complaint admits the
defendant's right of dower in the property described therein, or any part
thereof, it must demand judgment that her dower be admeasured. In that
case, if the defendant does not, by her answer, set forth facts, showing that
she is entitled to a greater right of dower, or another estate or interest in
the property, than is so admitted, and demand judgment therefore, as if she
was the plaintifff in an action for dower, the court must render an interlocu
tory judgment, directing her dower to be admeasured, with or without
damages for its detention, as in an action for dower. The subsequent pro
ceedings are the same, as if the defendant had, as plaintifff, recovered an
interlocutory judgment in an action for dower.
§ 1649. Id. ; when defendant's claim is denied. Where the plaintifff
insists, in his complaint, that the defendant has not a right of dower in the
property, he must demand judgment that she be forever barred from such
a claim. In that case, or where the plaintifff admits a right of dower in the
defendant, and the defendant in her answer demands judgment for a
greater right of dower, or another estate or interest in the property, than is
so admitted, the provisions of this article, relating to an action to compel
the determination of an adverse claim in fee, or for life, or for a term of
years not less than ten, apply to all proceedings subsequent to the answer.
§ 1650. This article applies to corporations. An action may be main
tained, as prescribed in this article, by or against a corporation, as if it was
a natural person.
Who liable to action for waste.
Action by heir, devisee, or grantor of reversion.
Id. ; by ward against guardian.
Id. ; by grantee of real property sold under execution.
Judgment in action against tenant of particular estate.
Action against joint tenant or tenant m common.
Id. ; interlocutory judgment for partition.
Id. ; damages to be deducted from defendant's share.
View ; when not necessary ; when and how made.

§ 1651. Who liable to action for waste. An action for waste lies
against a tenant by the curtesy, in dower, for life, or for years, or the
assignee of such a tenant, who, during his estate or term, commits waste
upon the real property held by him, without a special and. lawful written
license so to do ; or against such a tenant, who lets or grants his estate, and,
still retaining possession thereof, commits waste without a like license.
§ 1652. Action by heir, devisee, or grantor of reversion An heir or
devisee may maintain an action for waste, committed in the time of his
ancestor or testator, as well as in his own time. The grantor of a reversion
may maintain an action for waste, committed before he aliened the same.
§ 1653. Id; by ward against guardian Such an action may also be
maintained against a guardian by his ward, either before or after the ter
mination of the guardianship, for waste, committed upon the real property
of the ward during the guardianship.
§ 1654. Id. ; by grantee of real property sold under execution.
Where real property is sold by virtue of an execution, the person to whom
a conveyance is executed pursuant to the sale, may maintain an action for
waste, committed thereon after the sale, against the person, who was then
in possession of the property.
§ 1655. Judgment in action against tenant of particular estate. If
the plaintiff recovers in an action for waste, other than an action brought
as prescribed in the next section, the final judgment must award to him
treble damages. Where the action is brought by the person next entitled
to the reversion, and it appears in like manner, that the injury to the estate
in reversion is equal to the value of the tenant's estate or unexpired term,
or that it was done maliciously, the final judgment must also award to the
plaintifff the forfeiture of the defendant's estate, and the possession of the
place wasted.
§ 1656. Action against joint tenant or tenant in common An action
for waste may also be maintained, by a joint tenant or tenant in common,
against his co-tenant, who commits waste upon the real property held in
joint tenancy or in common. If the plaintifff recovers therein, he is entitled,
at his election, either to a final judgment for treble damages, as specified
in the last section, or to have partition of the property, as prescribed in the
next two sections.
8 1657. Id. ; interlocutory judgment for partition Where the plain
tiff elects to have partition, as prescribed in the last section, if the plead
ings, verdict, report, or decision do not determine the rights and interests
of the several parties in the property so held in joint tenancy or in common,
the court must ascertain them, by a reference or otherwise. If it appears
that there are persons, not parties to the action, who must have been made
parties to an action for the partition of the property, they must be brought
in by a supplemental summons, and, if necessary, supplemental pleadings
must be made. When the rights and interests of all the parties are ascer
tained, an interlocutory judgment for the partition or sale of the property
must be rendered, and the subsequent proceedings thereon must be the
same, as in an action for the partition of the property, except as otherwise
prescribed in the next section.
§ 1658. Id. ; damages to be deducted from defendant's share. The
plaintifff may elect to take final judgment for the single damages awarded
to him, or that, in making the partition, or in dividing the proceeds of a sale,
so much of the share of the defendant in the real property, or the proceeds
thereof, as will be sufficient to compensate the plaintifff for his single dam
ages, and the costs of the action, other than the expenses of making, the
partition or sale, be laid off or paid, as the case may be, to the plaintifff.
The residue of the property or proceeds, not laid off or distributed to the
plaintifff or the defendant, must be laid off or paid to the persons entitled
thereto, according to their respective rights and interests.
§ 1659. View ; when not necessary ; when and how made. In an
action for waste, it is not necessary, either upon the execution of a writ of
inquiry, or upon the trial of an issue of fact, that the jury, the judge, or the
referee, should view the property. Where the trial is by a referee, or by
the court without a jury, the referee or the judge may, in his discretion, view
the property, and direct the attorneys for the parties to attend accordingly.
In any other case, the court may, in its discretion, by order, direct a view
by the jury.

When action may be brought.
Defendants therein.
Final judgment.
Application of this article.

§ 1660. When action may be brought An action for a nuisance may
be maintained in any case where such an action might have been maintained
under the laws in force, immediately before this act takes effect.
§ 1661. Defendants therein. A person by whom the nuisance has been
erected, and a person to whom the real property has been transferred, may
be joined as defendants in such an action.
§ 1662. Final judgment. A final judgment in favor of the plaintifff may
award him damages, or direct the removal of the nuisance, or both.
§ 1663. Application of this article. This article does not affect an
action wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum of money only.
§ 1664. Certain persons holding over deemed trespassers. Action
against them. A person in possession of real property, as guardian or
trustee for an infant, or having an estate determinable upon one or more
lives, who holds over and continues in possession after the determination of
his trust, or particular estate, without the express consent of the person then
immediately entitled, is a trespasser. An action may be maintained against
him, or his executor or administrator, by the person so entitled, or his exe
cutor or administrator, to recover the full value of the profits, received dur
ing the wrongful occupation.
§ 1665. Reversioner, etc., may maintain action A person seized of
an estate in remainder or reversion, may maintain an action founded upon
an injury done to the inheritance, notwithstanding any intervening estate
for life or for years.
§ 1666. Joint tenant, etc., may maintain action against his co-tenantA joint tenant or a tenant in common of real property, or his executor or
administrator, may maintain an action to recover his just proportion against
his co-tenant, who has received more than his own just proportion, or against
his executor or administrator.
§ 1667. Action for cutting, etc., trees. If any person cuts down or
carries off any wood, underwood, tree, or timber, or girdles or otherwise
despoils a tree on the land of another, without the owner's leave ; or on the
common, or other land, of a city, village, or town, without having right or
privilege in those lands, or license from the proper officer; an action may be
maintained against him, by the owner, or the city, village, or town, as the
case may be.
§ 1668. Id ; when treble damages may be recovered In an action
brought as prescribed in the last section, the plaintifff may state in his com
plaint the amount of his damage?, and demand judgment for treble the sum
so stated. Thereupon, if the inquisition, or, where issues of fact are tried,
the verdict, report, or decision, awards him any damages, he is entitled to
judgment for treble the sum so awarded, except that in either of the follow
ing cases, judgment must be rendered for single damages only :
1. Where the verdict, report, or decision finds affirmatively that the injury
for which the action was brought, was casual and involuntary; or that the
defendant when he committed the injury, had probable cause to believe that
the land was his own.
2. Where the defendant has pleaded, and verdict, report, or decision finds
affirmatively, that the injury, for which the action was brought, was com
mitted by taking timber, for the purpose of making or repairing a public
road, or a public bridge ; or by taking any wood, underwood, or tree, for a
like purpose, by authority of a commissioner or overseer of highways.
§ 1669. Treble damages for forcible entry or detainer. If a person is
disseized, ejected, or put out of real property, in a forcible manner; or, after
he has been put out, is held and kept out, by force, or by putting him in
fear of personal violence, he is entitled to recover treble damages, in an
action therefore against the wrong-doer.


Notice of pendency of action by plaintifff.
Effect of notice.
Notice to be recorded and indexed.
Notice of pendency of action by defendant.
When notice may be cancelled.
When and how court may compel delivery of possession of real property
to purchaser.
Upon sale of real property, officer to pay taxes, etc.
Judgment to be entered in county where real property is situated.
Sale; notice of ; how conducted.
Purchases by certain officers prohibited. Penalty.
Reversioner, etc., may bring action after tenant's default.
Defendant, how prevented from committing waste, etc.
When order for survey may be made.
Contents and service of order.
Authority of party under order.
Liability of purchaser, pending an action.
Infant may maintain, etc., real action in his own name.
Joinder of real actions with others.
When special proceeding to recover real property not allowed.

§ 1670. Notice of pendency of action by plaintifff In an action
brought to recover a judgment affecting the title to, or the possession, use,
or enjoyment of, real property, the plaintifff may, when he files his com
plaint, or at any time afterwards before final judgment, file, in the clerk's
office of each county where the property is situated, a notice of the pendency
of the action, stating the names of the parties, and the object of the action,
and containing a brief description of the property in that county, affected
thereby. Such a notice may be filed with the complaint, before the service
of the summons ; but, in that case, personal service of the summons must
be made upon a defendant, within sixty days after the filing, or else, before
the expiration of the same time, publication of the summons must be com
menced, or service thereof must be made without the State, pursuant to an
order obtained therefore, as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act.
§ 1671. Effect of notice. Where a notice of the pendency of an action
may be filed, as prescribed in the last section, the pendency of the action is
constructive notice, from the time of so filing the notice only, to a purchaser
or encumbrancer of the property affected thereby, from or against a defend
ant, with respect to whom the notice is directed to be indexed, as prescribed
in the next section. A person, whose conveyance or encumbrance is subse
quently executed, or subsequently recorded, is bound by all proceedings
taken in the action, after the filing of the notice, to the same extent as if he
was a party to the action.
§ 1672. Notice to be recorded and indexed. Each county clerk, with
whom such a notice is filed, must immediately record it, in a book kept in
bis office for that purpose, and index it to the name of each defendant,
specified in a direction, appended at the foot of the notice, and subscribed
by the attorney for the plaintifff. The expense of procuring a new book,
when necessary, must be paid out of the county treasury, as other county
charges.
§ 1673. Notice of pendency of action by defendant Where a de
fendant sets up in his answer a counterclaim, upon which he demands an
affirmative judgment affecting the title to, or the possession, use, or enjoy
ment of, real property, he may, at the time of filing his answer, or at any
time afterwards before final judgment, file a like notice. The last three
sections apply to such a notice. For the purpose of such an application, the
defendant filing such a notice is regarded as a plaintifff, and the plaintifff is
regarded as a defendant.
§ 1674. When notice may be cancelled. After the action is settled,
discontinued, or abated, or final judgment is rendered therein against the
party filing the notice, and the time to appeal therefrom has expired, or if a
plaintifff filing the notice unreasonably neglects to proceed in the action, the
court may, in its discretion, upon the application of any person aggrieved,
and upon such notice as may be directed or approved by it, direct that a
notice of the pendency of an action, filed as prescribed in the last four sec
tions, be cancelled of record by a particular clerk, or by all the clerks, with
whom it is filed and recorded. The cancellation must be made by a note to
that effect, on the margin of the record, referring to the order. Unless the
order is entered in the same clerk's office, a certified copy thereof must be
filed therein, before the notice is cancelled.
§ 1675. When and how court may compel delivery of possession
of real property to purchaser. Where a judgment, in an action specified
in this title, allots to any person a distinct parcel of real property, or con
tains a direction for the sale of real property, or confirms such an allotment
or sale, it may also, except in a case where it is expressly prescribed in this
act that the judgment may be enforced by execution, direct the delivery of
the possession of the property to the person entitled thereto. If a party, or
his representative or successor, who is bound by the judgment, withholds pos
session from the person thus declared to be entitled thereto, the court, besides
punishing the disobedience as a contempt, may, in its discretion, by order,
require the sheriff to put that person into possession. Such an order must
be executed, as if it was an execution for the delivery of the possession of
the property.
§ 1676. Upon sale of real property, officer to pay taxes, etc. Where
a judgment, rendered in an action for partition, for dower, or to foreclose a
mortgage upon real property, directs a sale of the real property, the officer
making the sale must, out of the proceeds, unless the judgment otherwise
directs, pay all taxes, assessments, and water rates, which are liens upon the
property sold, and redeem the property sold from any sales for unpaid taxes,
assessments, or water rates, which have not apparently become absolute.
The sums, necessary to. make those payments and redemptions, are deemed
expenses of the sale, within the meaning of that expression, as used in any
provision of article second, third, or fourth of this title.
§ 1677. Judgment to be entered in county where real property is
situated. Where real property, sold by virtue of a judgment, rendered in
an action specified in the last section, is situated in a county, other than
that in which the judgment is entered, the judgment must be also entered
in the office of the clerk of the county wherein the property is situated,
before the purchaser can be required to pay the purchase-money, or to accept
a deed. The clerk of the latter county must enter it in the judgment-book
kept by him, upon filing with him a copy thereof, certified by the clerk with
whom it is entered.
§ 1678. Sale ; notice of ; how conducted. A sale made in pursuance
of any provision of this title must be at public auction to the highest
bidder. Notice of such sale must be given by the officer making it, as
prescribed in section 1434 of this act for the sale by a sheriff of real prop
erty, by virtue of an execution, unless the property is situated wholly or
partly in a city in which a daily newspaper is published, and in that case
by publishing notice of the sale at least twice in each week for three suc
cessive weeks immediately preceding the sale, in one, or, in the city of
New York or the city of Brooklyn, in two such papers. Notice of the post
ponement of the sale must be published in the paper or papers wherein the
notice of sale was published. The terms of the sale must be made known
at the time of the sale, and if the property, or any part thereof, is to be sold
subject to the right of dower, charge or Hen, that fact must be declared at
the time of the sale. If the property consists of two or more distinct buildings,
farms or lots they shall be sold separately, unless otherwise ordered by the
court; and provided further, that where two or more buildings are situated
on the same city lot they may be sold together.
[{ 2. This act shall take effect immediately ; and any sales heretofore made,
which would be lawful according to the terms of this act, are hereby declared valid.
Am'd Ch. 682 op 1881.]
§ 1679. Purchases by certain officers prohibited. Penalty. A com
missioner, or other officer making a sale, as prescribed in this title, or a
fuardian of an infant party to the action, shall not, nor shall any person, for
is benefit, directly or indirectly, purchase, or be interested in the purchase
of, any of the property sold ; except that a guardian may, where he is law
fully authorized so to do, purchase for the benefit or in behalf of his ward.
The violation of this section is a misdemeanor; and a purchase, made con
trary to this section, is void.
1680. Reversioner, etc., may bring action, after tenant's default,
ere a tenant for life, or for a term of years, suffers judgment to be taken
against him, by consent or by default, in an action of ejectment, or an action
for dower, the heir, or person owning the reversion or remainder, may, after
the determination of the particular estate, maintain an action of ejectment
to recover the property.
§ 1681. Defendant, how prevented from committing waste, etc. If,
during the pendency of an action specified in this title, the defendant com
mits waste upon, or does any other damage to, the property in controversy,
the court, or a judge thereof, may, upon the application of the plaintifff, and
due proof of the facts by affidavit, grant, without notice or security, an
order, restraining him from the commission of any further waste upon or
damage to the property. Disobedience to such an order may be punished,
as a contempt of the court. This section does not effect the plaintifff's right
to a permanent or a temporary injunction in such an action.
§ 1682. When order for survey may be made. If the court, in which
an action relating to real property is pending, is satisfied that a survey of
any of the property, in the possession of either party, or of a boundary line
between the parties, or between the property of either of them, and of
another person, is necessary or expedient, to enable either party to prepare
a pleading, or prepare for trial, or for any other proceeding in the action, it
may, upon the application of either party, upon notice to the party in pos
session, make an order, granting to the applicant leave to enter upon that
party's property, to make such a survey.
§ 1683. Contents and service of order. An order, made as prescribed
in the last section, must specify, by a description as definite as may be the
property or boundary line to be surveyed, and the real property of the
adverse party, upon which it is necessary to enter for that purpose. A copy
thereof must be served on the owner or occupant of that property, before
entry thereupon.
8 1684. Authority of party under order. After serving a copy of the
order, as prescribed tv. the last section, the party obtaining it, his necessary
surveyors, servants, and agents, may enter, for the purpose of making the
Burvey, upon the real property described in the order, and may there make
the survey ; but each person so entering is responsible for any unnecessary
injury done by him ; and the party procuring the order is responsible for
Buch an injury, done by any person so entering.
§ 1685. Liability of purchaser pending an action. If the defendant,
in an action of ejectment or an action for dower, aliens the real property in
question, after the filing of a notice, as specified in section 1070 of this act,
and an execution against him for the plaintifff's damages is returned wholly
or partly unsatisfied, an action may be maintained by the plaintifff against
any person, who has been in possession of the property, under the defend
ant's conveyance, to recover the unsatisfied portion of the damages, for a
time not exceeding that, during which he possessed the property.
§ 1686. Infant may maintain, etc., real action in his own name. Any
action specified in this title may be maintained by or against an infant in
his own name ; and article fourth of title second of chapter fifth of this act
applies to such an action, except as otherwise prescribed in sections 1535
and 1536 of this act.
§ 1687. Joinder of real actions with others. Nothing contained in this
title is to be construed, as to prevent the plaintifff from uniting in the same
complaint two or more causes of action, in any case specified in section 484
of this act.
§ 1688. When special proceeding to recover real property not
allowed. A special proceeding to recover real property cannot be taken,
except in a case specially prescribed by law.
Joinder of action with others.
When it cannot be maintained.
Id.; after judgment against the plaintifff.
Id. ; by an assignee.
Jurisdiction, etc., when replevin precedes summons.
Plaintiff may require sheriff to replevy.
Affidavit therefore, before commencement of action.
Id. ; after commencement of action.
Id. ; where several chattels are to be replevied.
Provision where a part only is replevied.
Plaintiff's undertaking for replevin.
How chattel to be replevied.
Id. ; how taken from a building, etc.
Replevied chattel ; how kept, etc.
When defendant may except to sureties ; proceedings thereupon.
When defendant may reclaim chattel ; proceedings thereupon.
Sureties; when and how to justify.
When and to whom sheriff must deliver chattel.
Penalty for wrong delivery by sheriff.
Undertaking ; to whom delivered.
Claim of title by third person ; proceedings thereupon.
Action against sheriff upon such claim.
Indemnity to sheriff against such action.
When agent, etc., may make affidavit for replevin or return.
Second and subsequent replevin j pi-oceedings thereupon.
Replevin where order of arrest has been granted.
Retum, etc., by sheriff.
Id. ; how compelled.
Replevin papers to be made part of judgment-roll, etc.
Action not affected by failure to replevy.
When and how plaintifff may abandon his claim as to part
Title j how stated in pleading.
Taking, etc. ; how stated in complaint.
Damages when chattel injured, etc., by defendant.
Answer to title in third person.
Answer that property was distrained doing damage.
Defendant may demand judgment for return.
Verdict, etc., what to state.
Substitute in certain eases for finding as to value
Verdict, etc., for part of several chattels ; judgment thereupon.
Damages, how ascertained on default.
Final judgment ; docketing the same.
Execution; contents thereof.
Id. ; sheriff's power to take chattel.
Action on undertaking ; when maintainable.
Sheriff's return evidence therein.
Injury, etc., no defense.
Abatement and revival of action.
§ 1689. Joinder of action with others. Nothing in this title is to be
so construed as to prevent the plaintifff from uniting in the same complaint
two or more causes of action, in any case specified in section 484 of this act.
§ 1690. When it cannot be maintained. An action to recover a chattel
cannot be maintained, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the chattel was taken by virtue of a warrant, against the plain
tiff, for the collection of a tax, assessment, or fine, issued in pursuance of a
statute of the State, or of the United States ; unless the taking was, or the
detention is, unlawful, as specified in section 1695 of this act.
2. Where it was seized by virtue of an execution, or a warrant of attach
ment, against the property of the plaintifff ; unless it was legally exempt
from such seizure, or is unlawfully detained, as specified in section 1695 of
this act.
3. Where it was seized by virtue of an execution, or a warrant of attach
ment, against the property of a person other than the plaintifff; and, at the
time of the seizure, the plaintifff had not the right to reduce it into his pos
session.
§ 1691. Id. ; after judgment against the plaintifff. Where a chattel is
replevied, in an action to recover the same, and a final judgment awarding
the possession thereof to the defendant is rendered, a subsequent action to
recover the same chattel cannot be maintained by the plaintifff, for the same
cause of action. But the judgment does not affect his right to maintain an
action to recover damages, for taking or detaining the same or any other
chattel, unless it was rendered against him upon the merits.
§ 1692. Id. ; by an assignee. An action to recover a chattel, the title to
which has been transferred to the plaintifff, since the wrongful taking, or
during the wrongful detention thereof, with or without the damages sus
tained by the taking, withholding, or detention, may be maintained in any
case, where, except for the transfer, such an action might be maintained, by
the person from or through whom the plaintifff derives title ; but not other
wise.
§ 1693. Jurisdiction, etc., when replevin precedes summons. Where
a chattel is replevied before the service of the summons, as prescribed in this
article, the seizure thereof by the sheriff is regarded as equivalent to the
granting of a provisional remedy, for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to
the court, and enabling it to control the subsequent proceedings in the
action ; and as equivalent to the commencement of the action for the pur
pose of determining, whether the plaintifff is entitled to maintain the action,
or the defendant is liable thereto.
§ 1694. PlaintifF may require sheriff to replevy. The plaintifff may,
when the summons is issued, or at any time afterwards, and before the ser
vice of a copy of the defendant's answer, df, where judgment is taken by
default, for want of an appearance or pleading, before the entry of the final
judgment, cause the chattel, to recover which the action is brought, to be
replevied by the sheriff of the county where it is found. For that purpose
he must deliver to the sheriff an affidavit and a written undertaking, as
prescribed in the following sections of this article, with a written requisition,
indorsed upon or annexed 1o the affidavit, and subscribed by his attorney, to
the effect, that the sheriff is required to replevy the chattel described therein,
The requisition may be directed to the sheriff of a particular county, or,
fenerally, to the sheriff of any county where the chattel is found. It is
eemed the mandate of the court.
J} 1695. Affidavit therefore before commencement of action The
davit, to be delivered to the sheriff, as prescribed in the last section, must
particularly describe the chattel to be replevied ; and must contain the fol
lowing allegations :
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the chattel, or is entitled to the pos
session thereof, by virtue of a special property therein; the facts with
respect to which must be set forth.
2. That it is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to the best knowl
edge, information and belief of the person making the affidavit.
4. That it has not been taken by virtue of a warrant, against the plaintifff,
for the collection of a tax, assessment or fine, issued in pursuance of a statute
of the State, or of the United States ; or, if it has been taken under color of
such a warrant, either that the taking was unlawful, by reason of defects in
the process, or other causes specified, or that the detention is unlawful, by
reason of facts specified, which have subsequently occurred.
5. That it has not been seized by virtue of an execution or warrant of
attachment, against the property of the plaintifff, or of any person from or
through whom the plaintifff has derived title to the chattel, since the seizure
thereof; or, if it has been so seized, that it was exempt from the seizure, by
reason of facts specified, or that its detention is unlawful, by reason of facts
specified which have subsequently occurred.
6. Its actual valne.
§ 1696. Id. ; after commencement of action. But where the affidavit
is made after the service of the summons, the allegations, required to be
inserted therein by subdivisions first and second of the last section, must be
to the effect, that the plaintifff, at the time of the commencement of the
action, was the owner of the chattel, or was entitled to the possession thereof
by virtue of a special property therein ; and that it was then wrongfully
detained by the defendant, as prescribed in those subdivisions.
§ 1697. Id. ; where several chattels are to be replevied Where the
affidavit describes two or more chattels of the same kind, it must state the
number thereof, and where it describes a chattel in bulk, it must state
the weight, measurement or other quantity. Where it describes two or more
chattels to be replevied, it may, at the election of the plaintifff, state the
aggregate value of all ; or, separately, the value of any chattel or of any
class of chattels, and the aggregate value of the remainder, if any. Where
it states separately the value of one or more chattels or classes of chattels,
the defendant may require, as prescribed in the following provisions of this
article, the return of any or all of the chattels or classes of chattels, the value
of which is thus stated, or of the portion thereof which has been replevied.
If he procures such a return, the remainder must be delivered to the plain
tiff, except as is otherwise prescribed in this article.
§ 1698. Provision where a part only is replevied The sheriff must
Teplevy a smaller number or a smaller quantity, if the whole of the chattel
or chattels described in the affidavit cannot be found. In that case, if the
aggregate value only is stated in the affidavit, the value of the entire chattel
or class of chattels, as so stated, is to be deemed the value of the part
replevied, for the purposes of the proceedings to procure a return thereof to
the defendant.
§ 1699. Plaintiff's undertaking for replevin. The undertaking to be
delivered to the sheriff, with a requisition to replevy a chattel, must be exe
cuted by at least two sureties, who must be approved by the sheriff. It must
be to the effect, that the sureties are bound in a specified sum, not less than
twice the value of the chattel, as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution
of the action ; for the return of the chattel to the defendant, if possession
thereof is adjudged to him, or if the action abates, or is discontinued, before
the chattel is returned to the defendant ; and for the payment to the defend
ant of any sum, which the judgment awards to him against the plaintifff.
§ 1700. How chattel to be replevied If any chattel, described in the
affidavit, is found in the possession of the defendant, or of his agent, the
sheriff, to whom an affidavit, requisition, and undertaking are delivered, as
prescribed in the foregoing sections of this article, must forthwith replevy it,
by taking it into his possession. He must thereupon, without delay, serve
on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, requisition, and undertaking, by
delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found within the county ;
or, if he cannot be so found, to his agent, if any. from whose possession the
chattel is taken ; or, if neither can be found within the county, by leaving
the copy at the usual place of abode of either, with a person of suitable age
and discretion.
§ 1701. Id ; how taken from a building, etc. If any chattel, described
in the affidavit, is secured or concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff
must publicly demand its delivery. If it is not delivered, pursuant to the
demand, he must cause
must take the chattel into his possession.
8 1702. Replevied chattel ; how kept, etc. A sheriff, who has replevied
a chattel, must retain it in his possession, keeping it in a secure place, until
the person, who is entitled to the possession thereof, is ascertained, as pre
scribed in this article. He must then deliver it to that person, upon request
and payment of his lawful fees, and necessary expenses for taking and keep
ing it, as taxed by a judge of the court, or the county judge of the county
where the chattel was replevied, upon such a notice as the judge deems
proper
§ 1703. When defendant may except to sureties ; proceedings there
upon. Within three days after the chattel is replevied, and a copy of the
affidavit, requisition, and undertaking is served, the defendant, unless he
requires a return of the chattel replevied, or of one or more of them, where
two or more chattels are replevied, may serve upon the sheriff a notice, that
he excepts to the plaintifff's sureties ; otherwise he is deemed to have waived
all objections to them. "Where the defendant has not appeared, the notice
must be subscribed either by him, or by his agent or attorney. The person
so subscribing the notice must add to his signature his office address, as pre
scribed by law, with respect to a notice of appearance. Within ten days
after service of such a notice, the plaintifff's attorney must serve upon the
defendant's attorney, or, if the defendant has not appeared, upon the sheriff,
notice of the justification of the sureties. If the notice of justification is
served upon the sheriff, he must immediately serve it upon the person, whose
name is subscribed to the notice of exception, in the mode prescribed by law,
for service of a paper upon an attorney in an action.
§ 1704. When defendant may reclaim chattel ; proceedings there
upon. The defendant, if he does not except to the plaintifff's sureties, as
prescribed in the last section, may, within the time allowed to him for such
an exception, serve upon the sheriff, a notice that he requires a return of the
chattel replevied. With the notice, he must deliver to the sheriff the fol
lowing papers :
1. An affidavit, containing an allegation, either that the defendant is the
owner of the chattel, or that he is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof,
by virtue of a special property therein, the facts with respect to which must
be set forth.
2. An undertaking, executed by at least two sureties, to the effect that
they are bound, in a specified sum, not less than twice the value of the chat
tel, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the
action abates in conse
quence of the defendant's death ; and for the payment to him of any sum
which the judgment awards against the defendant.
Within three days after serving a notice, requiring a return of the chattel,
as prescribed in this section, the defendant must serve upon the plaintifff's
attorney, notice of the justification of the sureties to the undertaking.
§ 1705. Sureties ; when and how to justify. The justification of
sureties, as prescribed in either of the last two sections, must take place
either in the county where the chattel was replevied, or iu the county where
one of the sureties resides. The provisions, regulating the justification of
bail, contained in article third of title first of chapter seventh of this act,
govern, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this article, with respect
to the notice of justification of the sureties; the officer before whom they
must justify ; the substitution of new sureties, or a new undertaking ; the
examination and qualifications of the sureties; and the allowance of the
undertaking. But after the allowance, the undertaking and examination
must be delivered to the sheriff.
§ 1706. When and to whom sheriff must deliver chattel. If the de
fendant neither excepts to the plaintifff's sureties, nor requires the return of
the chattel, within the time prescribed for that purpose ; or if he makes de
fault in serving notice of the justification of his sureties, or in procuring the
allowance of his undertaking ; or if the plaintifff, after the defendant has
excepted to his sureties, duly procures the allowance of his undertaking ;
the sheriff must, except in the case specified in section 1709 of this act,
immediately deliver the chattel to the plaintifff. If the plaintifff, after the
defendant has excepted to his sureties, makes default in serving notice of
justification, or in procuring the allowance of his undertaking; or if the
defendant, after he has required the return of the chattel, duly procures the
allowance of his undertaking ; the sheriff must immediately deliver the chat
tel to the defendant. When the chattel is delivered by the sheriff to either
party, as prescribed in this section, the sheriff ceases to be responsible for
the sufficiency of the sureties of either party ; until then, he is responsible
for the sufficiency of the sureties of the plaintifff or of the defendant, as the
case may be.
§ 1707. Penalty for wrong delivery by sheriff A sheriff who delivers
to either party, without the consent of the other, a chattel replevied by him,
except as prescribed in the last section, or by virtue of an execution issued
upon a judgment in the action, forfeits, to the party aggrieved, two hundred
and fifty dollars ; and is also liable to him for all damages which he sustains
thereby.
§ 1708. Undertaking ; to whom delivered. Where the sheriff duly
delivers a chattel to either party, as prescribed in the last section but one,
he must, at the same time, deliver to the adverse party, the undertaking
received by him from the party to whom the chattel is delivered, together
with the examination of the sureties, and the judge's allowance, if any.
§ 1 709. Claim of title by third person ; proceedings thereupon. At
any time before a chattel, which has been replevied, is actually delivered to
either party, if a person, not a party to the action, claims, as against the
defendant, a right to the possession thereof, existing at the time when it was
replevied, an affidavit may be made and delivered to the sheriff, in his
behalf, stating that he makes such a claim ; specifying the chattel or chat
tels to which it relates, if two or more chattels have been replevied, and the
claim relates only to part of them ; and setting forth the facts upon which
his right of possession depends. In that case, the sheriff may, in his discre
tion, before he delivers the chattel to the plaintifff, serve upon the plaintifff's
attorney a copy of the affidavit, with a notice that he requires indemnity
against the claim. If the indemnity is not furnished, within a reasonable
time after the plaintifff becomes entitled to the delivery of the chattel, the
sheriff may, in his discretion, deliver it to the claimant, without incurring
any liability to the plaintifff, by reason of so doing.
§ 1710. Action against sheriff upon such claim. A person, not a
party to the action, who has served an affidavit, as prescribed in the last
section, may. maintain an actioii against the sheriff, who has delivered the
chattel to the plaintifff, to recover his damages, by reason of the taking,
detention, or delivery of the chattel. But the summons in such an action
must be issued, within three months after the delivery of the chattel to the
plaintifff, and must be served, within three months after it is issued. An
action cannot be maintained against a sheriff, by a person so entitled to
make a claim, except as prescribed in this section.
§ 1711. Indemnity to sheriff against such action. The indemnity, to
be furnished to the sheriff by the plaintifff, as prescribed in the last section
but one, must consist of a written undertaking to him, executed by at least
two sureties, to the effect that they will indemnify him against any liability
for damages, costs, or expenses, to be incurred in an action brought against
him, by the claimant, or a person deriving title from or through the claim
ant, by reason of the taking or detention of the chattel, or its delivery to
the plaintifff, not exceeding a sum to be specified in the undertaking, which
must be at least five hundred dollar.-;, and not less than the actual value of
the chattel claimed, and two hundred and fifty dollars in addition thereto.
Each of the sureties, besides possessing the other qualifications required by
law, must be a freeholder or a householder of the sheriff's county. The
sheriff, before delivering tho chattel, may require the persons ottered as
sureties to submit to an examination, before the officer who takes the
acknowledgment of the undertaking, as where persons are offered to him as
bail upon an arrest. The sureties are entitled to be substituted as defend
ants in an action, brought as prescribed in the last section, as if the chattel
had been levied upon by virtue of an execution.
§ 1712. When agent, etc., may make affidavit for replevin or return.
The affidavit, to be delivered to the sheriff in behalf of the plaintifff, with a
requisition to replevy a chattel, may be made by the plaintifff's agent or
attorney, if the material facts are within his personal knowledge ; or if the
plaintifff is not within the county where the attorney resides, or has his
office, or is not capable of making the affidavit. The affidavit, to be deliv
ered to the sheriff, either in behalf of the defendant, with a notice that he
requires the return of the chattel, or in behalf of a person, not a party, who
makes a claim as prescribed in section 1709 of this act, may be made by an
agent or attorney, if the material facts are within his personal knowledge,
or if the defendant or claimant, as the case may be, is not within the county
where the property was replevied, and capable of making the affidavit.
Where the affidavit is made by an attorney or agent, he must state therein
what allegations, if any, are made upon his information and belief ; and he
must set forth therein the grounds of his belief, as to all matters not stated
upon his knowledge, and the reason why the affidavit is not made by the
party or the claimant.
§ 1713. Second and subsequent replevin ; proceedings thereupon
Where the sheriff has replevied a part only of a chattel, or of two or more
chattels, described in the plaintifff's affidavit and has served upon the
defendant the papers required upon such a replevin, the plaintifff may, at
any time before the service of a copy of the defendant's answer, or before
judgment by default, for want of an appearance or pleading, require the
same or any other sheriff, to replevy any other part thereof. For that purpose,
he must deliver to the sheriff an affidavit, containing the same allegations, and
a requisition and undertaking, with respect to the part yet to be replevied,
as if the action was brought to recover that part only. Where a second or
subsequent replevin is made, as prescribed in this section, the proceedings
are the same, as if a former replevin had not been made.
§ 1714. Replevin, where order of arrest has been granted Where
an order of arrest is granted, as prescribed in title first of chapter seventh
of this act the plaintifff's right to a replevin is subject to the following regu
lations :
1. If the defendant has been arrested, pursuant to the order, a subsequent
replevin cannot be made of a chattel, with respect to which the order was
granted.
2. If the defendant has not been arrested, a subsequent replevin of a
chattel, with respect to which the order was granted, supersedes the order.
§ 1715. Return, etc., by sheriff The sheriff must, within twenty days
after he has delivered a chattel replevied by him, to the party entitled to
the possession thereof, or to a third person, as prescribed in this article, file
with the clerk the plaintifff's affidavit, and the accompanying requisition,
with a return, stating in what manner he has executed the latter. If he
has omitted to replevy a part of the chattel, or of two or more chattels,
described in the affidavit, the return must state the cause of the omission.
§ 1716. Id. ; how compelled. If the sheriff fails to comply with the last
section, either party may require him so to do, within ten days after service
of a notice to that effect, or to show cause, at a term of the court designated
in the notice, why he should not be punished for a contempt of the court.
The notice may be served at any time before final judgment, except that it
cannot be served on the part of the defendant, before answer. An omission
to comply with Buch a notice is punishable as a contempt of the court.
§ 1717. Replevin papers to be made part of judgment-roll, etc.
The plaintifff's affidavit, with the accompanying requisition, and the return
of the Bheriff, must be made a part of the judgment-roll in the action; and
a copy of each of them must be furnished to the court, or the referee, upon
the trial of an issue of fact, with a copy of the summons and of the pleadings.
§ 1718. Action not affected by failure to replevy. The plaintifff may
proceed in the action, and recover therein the chattel, or its value, although
he has not required the sheriff to replevy it, or the sheriff has not been able
to replevy it.
1719. When and how plaintifff may abandon his claim as to part.
ere part only of two or more distinct chattels, specified in the complaint,
has been replevied, the plaintifff's attorney may, with or before the notice of
trial, serve upon the defendant's attorney a notice, that he abandons so much
of his claim, as relates to those which have not been replevied ; and thence
forth the proceedings are the same, as if the action had been brought to
recover only the chattels which have been replevied. A copy of the notice
must be furnished to the court, or to the referee, upon the trial of an issue
of fact, with a copy of the summons and of the pleadings.
§ 1720. Title, how stated in pleading. An allegation, in a pleading
interposed by either party, to the effect that the party pleading, or a third
person, was, at the time when the action was commenced, or the chattel was
replevied, as the case may be, the owner of the chattel, or that it was then
his property, is a sufficient statement of title, unless the right of action or
defense rests upon a right of possession, by virtue of a special property ; in
which case the pleading must set forth the facts, upon which the special
property depends, so as to show, that at the time when the action was com
menced, or the chattel was replevied, as the case may be, the party pleading,
or the third person, was entitled to the possession of the chattel.
§ 1721. Taking, etc., how stated in complaint. Where the complaint
contains a sufficient statement of the plaintifff's title, a general allegation,
that the defendant wrongfully took the chattel, is sufficient, without setting
forth the facts, showing that the taking was wrongful. Where the taking
of the chattel is not complained of, but the action is founded upon its wrong
ful detention, the complaint must set forth the facts, showing that the deten
tion was wrongful.
§ 1722. Damages when chattel injured, etc., by defendant. Where
the plaintifff recovers a chattel which was injured, or otherwise depreciated
in value, while it was in the possession or under the control of the defendant,
under such circumstances, that the plaintifff might recover damages for the
injury or depreciation, in an action brought against the defendant therefore,
he may recover the same damages, in an action brought as prescribed in
this article. In that case, he must set forth the facts in his complaint, and
demand judgment for the damages accordingly.
§ 1723. Answer of title in third person The defendant may by
answer defend, on the ground that a third person was entitled to the chat
tel, without connecting nimself with the latter's title.
§ 1724. Answer that property was distrained doing damage. Where
the defense is, that a chattel, to recover which the action is . brought, was
distrained doing damage, an allegation that the defendant, or the person
by whose command he acted, was then lawfully possessed of the real prop
erty, and that the chattel was distrained, while it was doing damage there
upon, is sufficient, without setting forth the title to the real property.
§ 1725. Defendant may demand judgment for return Where a chat
tel has been replevied and delivered to the plaintifff, or to a person not a
party to the action, as prescribed in the foregoing sections of this article,
the defendant's attorney may, within the time allowed to him for the service
of a notice of trial, serve upon the plaintifff's attorney, a notice that the
defendant demands judgment for the return of the chattel, or for its value,
either with or without damages for the detention thereof. Upon the trial, a
copy of such a notice must be furnished to the court or referee, with a copy
of the summons and of the pleadings.
§ 1726. Verdict, etc. ; what to state. The verdict, report, or decision
must fix the damages, if any, of the prevailing party. Where it awards to
the plaintifff a chattel, which has not been replevied, or where it awards to
the prevailing party a chattel, which has been replevied, and afterwards
delivered by the sheriff to the unsuccessful party, or to a person not a party,
it must also, except in a case specified in the next section, fix the value of
the chattel, at the time of the trial.
§ 1727. Substitute in certain cases for finding as to value. A ver
dict, report, or decision, in favor of the defendant, shall not fix the value of
the chattel, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the plaintifff is the general owner of the chattel ; but it was
rightfully distrained doing damage, and its value is greater than the dam
ages sustained by the defendant, by the injury for which it was distrained ;
in which case, those damages must be fixed.
2. Where the plaintifff is the general owner of the chattel, but the defend
ant had a special property therein, and the value of the chattel is greater
than the value of the special property, or the sum charged upon the chattel
by reason thereof ; in which case, the value of the special property, or the
sum so charged, must be fixed.
In either of the cases specified in this section, the verdict, report, or
decision must set forth the reason, why the value of the chattel is not fixed.
§ 1728. Verdict, etc., for part of several chattels, judgment there
upon. Where the action is brought to recover two or more chattels, the
verdict, report or decision may award to one party one or more distinct
chattels, which can be identified, and set apart from the others, and the
residue to the other party ; and, if necessary, the complaint must be
amended so as to conform thereto. The final judgment, rendered there
upon, must award to each party the same relief, with respect to the finding
in his favor, as if separate judgments were rendered ; except that, where
each party is entitled to an absolute award of a sum of money, against the
other, the smaller sum must be deducted from the greater, and the balance
only must be awarded.
§ 1729. Damages how ascertained on default. Where the plaintifff is
entitled to judgment by default, for want of an appearance or pleading, the
court, to which he applies for judgment, may ascertain and determine the
damages to which he is entitled, and the value of the chattel, if necessary ;
or may direct a reference, or a writ of inquiry, for that purpose.
§ 1730. Pinal judgment ; docketing the same. Final judgment for
the plaintifff must award to him possession of the chattel recovered by him,
with his damages, if any. If a chattel recovered was not replevied, or if,
after it was replevied, it was delivered to the defendant, or to a person not
a party, as prescribed in this article, the final judgment must also award to
the plaintifff the sum fixed as the value thereof, to be paid by the defendant,
if possession thereof is not delivered to the plaintifff. If the defendant has
demanded judgment for the return of a chattel, which was replevied, and
afterwards delivered to the plaintifff, or to a person not a party, as prescribed
in this article, final judgment in his favor therefore must award to him pos
session thereof, with his damages, if any; and it must also award to him
the sum fixed as the value thereof, to be paid by the plaintifff, if possession
is not delivered to the defendant. But if the case is one of those specified
in section 1727 of this act, final judgment in favor of the defendant must
award to him the sum, fixed as therein specified, and, !f it, is not collected,
the delivery of the chattel ; or, if the chattel has not boon replevied, or has
been returned to him after replevin, that he is entitled to possession thereof,
until the sum so awarded is collected, or otherwise paid. The judgment
may be docketed, and the docket thereof creates a lien, as if it was a judg
ment for the full amount of the money, including costs, which it awards,
either absolutely or conditionally.
§ 1731. Execution ; contents thereof An execution for the delivery
of the possession of a chattel, and to satisfy, out of the property of the
judgment debtor, a sum of money contingently awarded against him, must
contain, in addition to the other matters prescribed by law, the following
directions :
1. Where the judgment is rendered in favor of the defendant, in a case
specified in section 1727 of this act, the execution must require the sheriff
to deliver possession of the chattel to the defendant, unless the plaintifff,
before the delivery, pays to him the sum of money awarded to the defend
ant, with interest and the sheriff's fees; and, in case the chattel cannot be
found within his county, then to satisfy that sum out of the property of the
plaintifff.
2. In any other case, where the judgment awards a sum of money, if
possession of the chattel is not delivered to the prevailing party, the execu
tion must require the sheriff, if the chattel cannot be found within his
county, to satisfy the sum so awarded, with interest and his fees, out of the
property of the party against whom the judgment is rendered. direction to satisfy a sum of money out of property, as prescribed in this
section, must be in the form required by law for a like direction, where an
execution against property is issued upon a judgment for a sum of money.
§ 1732. Id. ; sheriff's power to take chattel. For the purpose of
taking possession of a chattel, by virtue of such an execution, the powers of
the sheriff are the same, as where he is required to replevy a chattel.
§ 1733. Action on undertaking; when maintainable. A plaintifff, who
has recovered a final judgment, cannot maintain an action against the sure
ties in an undertaking, given in behalf of the defendant to procure a return
of the chattel, or against the bail of a defendant, who has been arrested,
until after the return, wholly or partly unsatisfied or unexecuted, of an exe
cution in his favor for the delivery of the possession of the chattel, or to
satisfy a sum of money out of the property of the defendant, or for both
purposes, as the case requires. A defendant, who has recovered a final
judgment, cannot maintain an action against the sureties in the plaintifff's
undertaking, given to procure a replevin, until after a like return of a similar
execution against the plaintifff.
§ 1734. Sheriff's return evidence therein. In such an action against
the sureties, the sheriff's return to the execution is presumptive evidence of
a failure to deliver, or to return a chattel, or to pay a sum of money, accord
ing to the terms of the undertaking.
§ 1735. Injury, etc., no defense. It is not a defense to such an action,
that the chattel was injured or destroyed, after it was replevied, unless the
injury or destruction was effected by the act, or with the consent of the
plaintifff in the action, or occurred after the chattel was taken by virtue of
the execution.
§ 1736. Abatement and revival of action. In an action to recover a
chattel, the cause of action survives or continues, notwithstanding the death
of either party, in favor of or against his executor or administrator. Where
the court makes an order, directing the abatement of such an action, as pre
scribed in section 761 of this act, an action may be maintained, upon an
undertaking, given for the purpose of procuring a delivery or return of a
chattel, as if final judgment, awarding to the adverse party possession
thereof, had been rendered in the first action, and an execution thereupon
had been returned unexecuted and unsatisfied, except that damages cannot
be recovered therein for a wrongful taking, withholding, or detention. An
action to recover the chattel cannot be maintained, after an action has been
commenced upon an undertaking, as prescribed in this section.
Action ; when and in what courts maintainable.
Warrant to seize chattel ; proceedings thereupon.
Judgments.
Action in inferior courts.
Application of this article.

§ 1737. Action ; when and in what courts maintainable. An action
may be maintained to foreclose a lien upon a chattel, for a sum of money, in
any case where such a lien exists at the commencement of the action. The

action may be brought in any court, of record or not of record, which -would
have jurisdiction to render a judgment, in an action founded upon a contract,
for a sum equal to the amount of the lien.
§ 1738. Warrant to seize chattel ; proceedings thereupon. "Where
the action is brought in the supreme court, a superior city court, the marine
court of the city of New York, or a county court, if the plaintff is not in
possession of the chattel, a warrantrmay be granted by the court, or a judge
thereof, commanding the sheriff to seize the chattel, and safely keep it to
abide the final judgment in the action. The provisions of title third of
chapter seventh of this act apply to such a warrant, and to the proceedings
to procure it and after it has been issued, as if it was a warrant of attach
ment, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this article.
§ 1739. Judgment. In an action brought in a court specified in the last
section, final judgment, in favor of the plaintifff, must specify the amount of
the lien, and direct a sale of the chattel to satisfy the same and the costs, if
any, by a referee appointed thereby, or an officer designated therein, in like
manner as where a sheriff sells personal property by virtue of execution ;
and the application by him of the proceeds of the sale, less his fees and
expenses, to the payment of the amount of the lien, and the costs of the action.
It must also provide for the payment of the surplus to the owner of the chat
tel, and for the safe keeping of the surplus, if necessary, until it is claimed
by him. If a defendant, upon whom the summons is personally served, is
liable for the amount of the lien, or for any part thereof, it may also award
payment accordingly.
§ 1740. Action in inferior court. Where the action is brought in a court,
other than one of those specified in the last section but one, if the plaintifff
is not in possession of the chattel, a warrant, commanding the proper officer
to seize the chattel, and safely keep it to abide the judgment, may be issued,
in like manner as a warrant of attachment may be issued in an action
founded upon a contract, brought in the same court ; and the provisions of
law, applicable to a warrant of attachment, issued out of that court, apply
to a warrant, issued as prescribed in this section, and to the proceedings to
procure it, and after it has been issued ; except as otherwise specified in the
judgment. A judgment in favor of the plaintifff, in such an action, must
correspond to a judgment, rendered as prescribed in the last section, except
that it must direct the sale of the chattel by an officer to whom an execution,
issued out of the court, may be directed ; and the payment of the surplus,
if its safe keeping is necessary, to the county treasurer, for the benefit of
the owner.
§ 1741. Application of this article. This article does not affect any
existing right or remedy to foreclose or satisfy a lien upon a chattel, without
action ; and it does not apply to a case, where another mode of enforcing a
lien upon a chattel is specially prescribed by law.
Action to annul a void or voidable marriage.
Action for a divorce.
Action for a separation.
Provisions applicable to two or more of the actions specified in this title.
Action by a woman, married under 14, to annul marriage.
In what other cases marriage may be annulled.
Action when party was under the age of consent.
Id. ; when former husband or wife was living.
Id. ; where party was an idiot.
Id. ; where party was a lunatic.
Action by next friend of idiot or lunatic.
Issue ; when entitled to succeed, etc.
Action on the ground of force, fraud, etc.
Custody, maintenance, etc., of issue of such a marriage.
Action on the ground of physical incapacity.
Certain proceedings regulated in action to annul marriage.
Judgment annulling a marriage ; how far conclusive.
How next friend of infant, lunatic, etc., allowed to sue, etc.
§ 1742. Action by woman, married under 14, to annul marriage. An
action may be maintained, by the woman, to procure a judgment, declaring
a marriage contract void, and annulling the marriage, under the following
circumstances :
1. "Where the plaintifff has not attained the age of fourteen years at the
time of the marriage.
2. Where the marriage took place without the consent of her father,
mother, guardian, or other person having the legal charge of her person.
3. Where it was not followed by consummation or cohabitation, and was
not ratified by any mutual assent of the parties, after the plaintifff attained
the age of fourteen years.
§ 1743. In what other cases marriage may be annulled An action
may also be maintained to procure a judgment, declaring a marriage con
tract void, and annulling the marriage, for either of the following causes,
existing at the time of the marriage :
1. That one or both of the parties had not attained the age of legal
consent.
 wife of one of the parties was living, and
that the marriage with the former husband or wife was then in force.
8. That one of the parties was an idiot or a lunatic.
4. That the consent of one of the parties was obtained by force, duress,
or fraud
5. That one of the parties was physically incapable of entering into the
marriage state. But an action can be maintained, under this subdivision,
only where the incapacity continues, and is incurable.
§ 1744. Action when party was under the age of consent. An action
to annul a marriage, on the ground that one of the parties had not attained
the age of legal consent, may be maintained by the infant, or by either
parent of the infant, or by the guardian of the infant's person ; or the court
may allow the action to be maintained by any person, as the next friend of
the infant. But a marriage shall not be annulled, at the suit of a party who
was of the age of legal consent when it was contracted, or where it appears
that the parties, for any time after they attained that age, freely cohabited
as husband and wife.
§ 1745. Id. ; when former husband or wife was living. An action to
annul a marriage, upon the ground that the former husband or wife of one
of the parties was living, the former marriage being in force, may be main
tained by either of the parties, during the life-time of the other, or by the
former husband or wife. Where it appears, and the judgment determines,
that the subsequent marriage was contracted, by at lead one of the parties
thereto, in good faith, and with the full belief that the former husband or
wife was dead, or witlwut any knowledge on. the part of the innocent party of
such former marriage, the issue of the subsequent marriage, born or begotten
before the final judgment, are deemed for all purposes tfie legitimate children of
the parent who at the time of the marriage was competent to ooruract, and are en
titled to succeed as such, in the same manner as other legitimate children, to the
real and personal estate of said parent ; and the issve so entitled must be specified
in the judgment, and the innocent party must be awarded their custody, and he or
she is entitled to appoint a guardian of their persons by will. This section shall be
construed to extend to all cases where the judgment or decree of nullity of such
subsequent marriage is rendered after the passage of this act, whether such subse
quent marriage was contracted before or after the passage hereof. [Am'd Ch.
401 of 1882.]
§ 1746. Id ; where party was an idiot. An action to annul a marriage,
on the ground that one of the parties thereto was an idiot, may be main
tained at any time during the life-time of either party, by any relative of
the idiot, who has an interest to avoid the marriage.
§ 1747. Id. ; where party was a lunatic. An action to annul a mar
riage, on the ground that one of the parties thereto was a lunatic, may be
maintained, at any time during the continuance of the lunacy, or, after the
death of the lunatic in that condition, and during the life of the other party
to the marriage, by any relative of the lunatic, who has an interest to avoid
the marriage. Such an action may also be maintained by the lunatic, at
any time after restoration to a sound mind ; but, in that case, the marriage
shall not be annulled, if it appears that the parties freely cohabited as hus
band aud wife, after the lunatic was restored to a sound mind.
§ 1748. Action by next friend of idiot or lunatic. Where no relative
of the idiot or lunatic brings an action to annul the marriage, as prescribed
in either of the last two sections, the court may allow an action for that purpose to be maintained, at any time during the life-time of both the parties
to the marriage, by any person as the next friend of the idiot or lunatic.
But this section does not apply, where the marriage might have been
annulled, at the suit of the lunatic, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1749. Issue, when entitled, to succeed, etc. A child of a marriage,
which is annulled on the ground of the idiocy or lunacy of one of its parents,
is deemed, for all purposes, the legitimate child of the parent who is of
sound mind.
§ 1750. Action on the ground of force, fraud, etc. An action to annul
a marriage, on the ground that the consent of one of the parties thereto was
obtained by force, duress, or fraud, may be maintained, at any time, by the
party whose consent was so obtained. Such an action may also be main
tained, during the life-time of the other party, by the parent or the guardian
of the person of the party, whose consent was so obtained, or by any relative
of that party, who has an interest to avoid the marriage. But a marriage
shall not be annulled on the ground of force or duress, if it appears that, at
any time before the commencement of the action, the parties thereto volun
tarily cohabited as husband and wife; or on the ground of fraud, if it
appears that, at any time before the commencement thereof, the parties vol
untarily cohabited as husband and wife, with a full knowledge of the facts
constituting the fraud.
§ 1751. Custody, maintenance, etc., of issue of such a marriage. The
court must, upon the application of the plaintifff, award the custody of the
children of a marriage, which is annulled on the ground of force, duress, or
fraud, to the innocent parent, unless it appears that the latter is unfit, for
any reason, to have the custody of one or more of the children, in which
case the court must give such directions relating thereto, as the interests of
the child or children require. The jndgment may make provision for the
education and maintenance of the children, out of the property of the guilty
parent.
§ 1752. Action on the ground of physical incapacity. An action to
annul a marriage, on the ground that one of the parties was physically
incapable of entering into the marriage state, may be maintained only by
the injured party, against the party whose incapacity is alleged. Such an
action must be commenced, before two years have expired since the marriage.
§ 1753. Certain proceedings regulated in action to annul marriage.
In an action brought as prescribed in this article, a final judgment, annul
ling the marriage, shall not be rendered by default, for want of an appear
ance or pleading, or upon the trial of an issue, without proof of the facts,
upon which the allegation of nullity is founded. And the declaration or
confession of either party to the marriage is not alone sufficient as proof;
but other satisfactory evidence of the facts must be produced. In such an
action, except where it is founded upon an allegation of the physical in
capacity of one of the parties thereto, the court must, upon the application
of either of the parties, make an order directing the trial, by a jury, of all
the issues of fact ; or it may, of its own motion, make an order directing the
trial by a jury, of one or more issues of fact; for which purpose, the ques
tions to be tried must be prepared and settled, as prescribed in section 970
of this act.
8 1754. Judgment annulling a marriage ; how far conclusive. A final
judgment, annulling a marriage, rendered during the life-time of both the
parties, is conclusive evidence of the invalidity of the marriage, in every court, of record or not of record, in any action or special proceeding, civil or
criminal. Such a judgment, rendered after the death of either party to the
marriage, is conclusive only as against the parties to the action, and those
claiming under them.
§ 1755. How next friend of infant, lunatic, etc., allowed to sue, etc.
An order, allowing a person to maintain an action, as the next friend of an
infant, as prescribed in section 1744 of this act, or as the next friend of an
idiot or lunatic, as prescribed in section 1748 of this act, may be granted by
the court, in its discretion, without notice, or upon notice to such persons and
in such a manner, as it deems proper. A motion to vacate such an order
must be made at a term held by the judge who granted it, unless he is dead,
out of office, or unable to hear it by reason of sickness or otherwise ; or unless
he expressly directs it to be heard at a term held by another judge. But
where such an order has been granted, the court, to which application for
final judgment is made, may dismiss the complaint, if justice so requires,
although in a like case, the party to the marriage, if plaintifff, would be
entitled to judgment.
In what cases action may be maintained,
Answer ; mode of trial ; judgment by default.
When divorce denied, although adultery proved.
Regulations when action brought by wife.
Id. ; when action brought by husband.
Marriage after divorce for adultery.
§ 1756. In what cases action may be maintained. In either of
the following cases, a husband or a wife may maintain an action, against
the other party to the marriage, to procure a judgment, divorcing the par
ties and dissolving the marriage, by reason of the defendant's adultery :
1. Where both parties were residents of the State, when the offense was
committed.
2. Where the parties were married within the State.
3. Where the plaintifff was a resident of the State, when the offense was
committed, and is a resident thereof, when the action is commenced.
4. Where the offense was committed within the State, and the injured
party, when the action is commenced, is a resident of the State.
§ 1757. Answer; mode of trial; judgment by default The answer of
the defendant may be made, without verifying it, notwithstanding the veri
fication of the complaint. If the answer puts in issue the allegation of
adultery, the court must, upon the application of either party, or it may, of
its own motion, make an order directing the trial, by a jury, of that issue ;
for which purpose the question to be tried must be prepared and settled, as
prescribed in section 970 of this act. If the answer does not put in issue the
allegation of adultery, or if the defendant makes default in appearing or
pleading, the plaintifff, before he is entitled to judgment, must nevertheless
satisfactorily prove the material allegations of his complaint, and also, by
his own testimony or otherwise, that there is no judgment or decree in any
court of the State, of competent jurisdiction, against him in favor of the de
fendant, for a divorce upon the ground of adultery.
§ 1758. When divorce denied, although adultery proved. In either
of the following cases, the plaintifff is not entitled to a divorce, although the
adultery is established :
1. Where the offense was committed by the procurement or with the con
nivance of the plaintifff.
2. Where the offense charged has been forgiven by the plaintifff. The
forgiveness may be proved either affirmatively, or by the voluntary cohabita
tion of the parties, with the knowledge of the fact.
3. Where there has been no express forgiveness, and no voluntary cohabi
tation of the parties, but the action was not commenced within five years
after the discovery, by the plaintifff, of the offense charged.
4. Where the plaintifff has also been guilty of adultery, under su'ch circum
stances that the defendant would have been entitled, if iunocent, to a divorce.
§ 1759. Regulations when action brought by wife. Where the action
is brought by the wife, the following regulations apply to the proceedings :
1. The legitimacy of any child of the marriage, born or begotten before
the commencement of the action, is not affected by the judgment dissolving
the marriage.
2. The court may, in the final judgment dissolving the marriage, require
the defendant to provide suitably for the education and maintenance of the
children of the marriage, and for the support of the plaintifff, as justice
requires, having regard to the circumstances of the respective parties.
3. If, when final judgment is rendered, dissolving the marriage, the plain
tiff is the owner of any real property ; or has, in her possession, or under her
control, any personal property, or thing in action, which was left with her
by the defendant, or acquired by her own industry, or given to her by
bequest or otherwise ; or if she is or may thereafter become entitled to any
property, by the decease of a relative intestate ; the defendant shall not
have any interest therein, absolute or contingent, before or after her death.
4. Where final judgment is rendered, dissolving the marriage, the plain
tiff's inchoate right of dower in any real property of which the defendant
then is or was theretofore seized, is not affected by the judgment.
§ 1760 Id. ; when action brought by husband. Where the action is
brought by the husband, the following regulations apply to the proceedings:
1. The legitimacy of a child, born or begotten before the commission of
the offense charged, is not affected by a judgment dissolving the marriage ;
but the legitimacy of any other child of the wife may be determined as one
of the issues in the action. In the absence of proof to the contrary, the
legitimacy of all the children, begotten before the commencement of the
action, must be presumed.
2. A judgment dissolving the marriage does not impair, or otherwise
affect the plaintifff's rights and interests, in and to any real or personal prop
erty which the defendant owns or possesses, when the judgment is rendered.
3. Where judgment is rendered dissolving the marriage, the defendant is
not entitled to dower in any of the plaintifff s real property, or to a distribu
tive share in his personal property.
§ 1761. Marriage after divorce for adultery. Where a marriage is
dissolved, as prescribed in this article, the plaintifff may marry again, during
the life-time of the defendant; but a defendant, adjudged to be guilty of
adultery, shall not marry again, until the -death of the plaintifff. But this
section does not prevent the remarriage of the parties to the action.
For wnat causes action may be maintained.
Id ; in what cases.
Requisites of complaint.
Defendant may set up plaintifff's misconduct.
Support, maintenance, etc., of wife and children.
Judgment for separation may be revoked.

§ 1762. For what causes action may be maintained. In either of the
cases specified in the next section, an action may be maintained, by a
husband or wife, against the other party to the marriage, to procure a
judgment, separating the parties from bed and board, forever, or for
a limited time, for either of the following causes :
1. The cruel and inhuman treatment of the plaintifff by the defendant.
2. Such conduct, on the part of the defendant towards the plaintifff, as
may render it unsafe and improper for the former to cohabit with the latter.
3. The abandonment of the plaintifff by the defendant.
4. Where the wife is plaintifff, the neglect or refusal of the defendant to
provide for her.
8 1763. Id. ; in what cases. Such an action may be maintained, in
either of the following cases :
1. Where both parties are residents of the State, when the action is
commenced.
2 Where the parties were married within the State, and the plaintifff is a
resident thereof, when the action is commenced.
3. Where the parties, having been married without the State, have become
residents of the State, and have continued to be residents thereof at least
one year ; and the plaintifff is such a resident, when the action is commenced.
§ 1764. Requisites of complaint. The complaint in such an action
must specify particularly the nature and circumstances of the defendant's
misconduct, and must set forth the time and place of each act complained of,
with reasonable certainty.
§ 1765. Defendant may set up plaintifff's misconduct The defendant
may set up, in justification, the misconduct of the plaintifff ; and if that
defense is established to the satisfaction of the court, the defendant is
entitled to judgment.
§ 1766. Support, maintenance, eta, of wife and children Where the
action is brought by the wife, the court may, in the final judgment of sepa
ration, give such directions, as the nature and circumstances of the case
require. In particular, it may compel the defendant to provide suitably for
the education and maintenance of the children of the marriage, and for the
support of the plaintifff, as justice requires, having regard to the circum
stances of the respective parties. And the court may, in such an action,
render a judgment, compelling the defendant to make the provision speci
fied in this section, where, under the circumstances of the case, such a judg
ment is proper, without rendering a judgment of separation.
§ 1767. Judgment for separation maybe revoked. Upon the joint
application of the parties, accompanied with satisfactory evidence of their
reconciliation, a judgment for a separation, forever, or for a limited period,
rendered as prescribed in this article, may be revoked, at any time, by the
court which rendered it subject to such regulations and restrictions as the
court thinks fit to impose.

Married woman deemed a resident in certain cases.
Alimony ; expenses of action ; and costs ; how awarded.
What is deemed a counterclaim.
Court to give directions as to custody, etc., of children.
Support, maintenance, etc., of wife and children. Sequestration.
Id. ; when enforced by punishment for contempt.
Regulations respecting judgment by default.

§ 1768. Manjed woman deemed a resident in certain cases. If a
married woman dwells within the State, when she commences an action
against her husband, as prescribed in either of the last two articles, she is
deemed a resident thereof, although her husband resides elsewhere.
1769. Alimony; expenses of action; and costs; how awarded
ere an action is brought, as prescribed in either of the last two articles,
the court may, in its discretion, during the pendency thereof, from time to
time, make and modify an order or orders, requiring the husband to pay
any sum or sums of money, necessary to enable the wife to carry on or
defend the action, or to provide suitably for the education and maintenance
of the children of the marriage, or for the support of the wife, having regard
to the circumstances of the respective parties. The final judgment in such
an action may award costs, in favor of or against either party, and an exe
cution may be issued for the collection thereof, as in an ordinary case ; or
the court may, in the- judgment, or by an order made at any time, direct
the costs to be paid out of any property sequestered, or otherwise in the
power of the court.
§ 1770. What is deemed a counterclaim. Where an action is brought
by either husband or wife, as prescribed in either of the last two articles, a
cause of action against the plaintifff, and in favor of the defendant, arising
under other of said articles, may be interposed, in connection with a denial
of the material allegation of the complaint, as a counterclaim. [Am'd Ch.
703 op 1881.]
1771. Court to give directions as to the custody, etc, of children.
ere an action is brought by either husband or wife, as prescribed in
either of the last two articles, the court must, except as otherwise expressly
prescribed in those articles, give, either in the final judgment, or by one or
more orders, made from time to time, before final judgment, such directions,
as justice requires, between the parties, for the custody, care and education
of any of the children of the marriage. Where the action was brought, as
prescribed in article third of this title, the court may, by order, at any time
after final judgment, annul, vary, or modify, such a direction.
§ 1772. Support, maintenance, etc., of wife and children Seques
tration Where a judgment rendered, or an order made, as prescribed in
this article, or in either of the last two articles, requires a husband to pro
vide for the education or maintenance of any of the children of a marriage,
or for the support of his wife, the court may, in its discretion, also direct
him to give reasonable security, in such a manner, and within such a time,
as it thinks proper, for the payment, from time to time, of the sums of
money required for that purpose. If he fails to give the security, or to
make any payment required by the terms of such a judgment or order,
whether he has or has not given security therefore ; or to pay any sum of
money which he is required to pay by an order, made as prescribed in sec
tion 1769 of this act ; the court may cause his personal property, and the
rents and profits of his real property, to be sequestered, and may appoint a
receiver thereof. The rents and profits, and other profits, so sequestered,
may be, from time to time, applied, under the direction of the court, to the
payment of any of the sums of money specified in this section, as justice
requires.
§ 1773. Id. ; when enforced by punishment for contempt. Where
the husband makes default in paying any sum of money specified in the
last section, as required by the judgment or order, directing the payment
thereof ; and it appears presumptively, to the satisfaction of the court, that
payment cannot be enforced by means of the proceedings prescribed in the
last section, or by resorting to the security, if any, given as therein pre
scribed, the court may, in its discretion, make an order requiring the husband
to show cause before it, at a time and place therein specified, why he should
not be punished for his failure to make the payment; and thereupon pro
ceedings must be taken to punish him, as prescribed in title third of chapter
seventeenth of this act. Such an order to show cause may also be made,
without any previous sequestration, or direction to give security, where the
court is satisfied that they would be ineffectual.
§ 1774. Regulations respecting judgment by default In an action
brought as prescribed in this title, a final judgment shall not be rendered
in favor of the plaintifff, upon the defendant's default in appearing or plead
ing, unless either the summons and a copy of the complaint were personally
served upon the defendant ; or the copy of the summons delivered to the
defendant, upon personal service of the summons, or delivered to him with
out the State, or published, pursuant to an order for that purpose, obtained
as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act, contains the following words, or
words to the same effect, legibly written or printed upon the face thereof, to
wit : " Action to annul a marriage ; " " Action for a divorce ; " or " Action for
a separation ; " according to the article of this title, under which the action
is brought. Where the summons is personally served, but a copy of the
complaint is not served therewith ; or where a copy of the summons and a
copy of the complaint are delivered to the defendant without the State, the
certificate or affidavit proving service, must affirmatively state, in the body
thereof, that such an inscription, setting forth a copy thereof, was so writ
ten or printed upon the face of the copy of the summons delivered to the
defendant.

Article 4. Action by the people to annul a corporation.
5. Provisions applicable to two or more of the actions specified in this title.

Complaint in actions by or against corporations.
When proof of corporate existence unnecessary.
Misnomer, when waived.
Action against a corporation upon a note, etc.
When foreign corporation may sue.
When foreign corporation may be sued.

§ 1775. Complaint in actions by or against corporations. In an
action brought by or against a corporation, the complaint must aver that the
plaintifff, or the defendant, as the case may be, is a corporation ; must state
whether it is a domestic corporation or a foreign corporation ; and, if the
latter, the State, country, or government, by or under whose laws it was
created. But the plaintifff need not set forth, or specially refer to, any act
or proceeding, by or under which the corporation was created.
§ 1776. When proof of corporate existence unnecessary. In an
action brought by or against a corporation, the plaintifff need not prove, upon
the trial, the existence of the corporation, unless the answer is verified, and
contains an affirmative allegation that the plaintifff, or the defendant, as the
case may be, is not a corporation.
§ 1777. Misnomer, when waived. In an action or special proceeding,
brought by or against a corporation, the defendant is deemed to have
waived any mistake in the statement of the corporate name, unless the
misnomer is pleaded in the answer, or other pleading in the defendant's
behalf.
§ 1778. Action against a corporation upon a note, etc. In an action
against a foreign or domestic corporation, to recover damages for the non
payment of a promissory note, or other evidence of debt, for the absolute
payment of money, upon demand, or at a particular time, an order extending
the time to answer or demur, shall not be granted, except by the court,
upon notice to the plaintifff's attorney. In such an action, unless the defend
ant serves, with a copy of his answer or demurrer, a copy of an order of a
judge, directing that the issues presented by the pleadings be tried, the
plaintifff may take judgment, as in case of default in pleading, at the expi
ration of twenty days after service of a copy of the complaint, either per
sonally with the summons, or upon the defendant's attorney, pursuant to
his demand therefore ; or, if the service of the summons was otherwise than
personal, at the expiration of twenty days after the service is complete.
§ 1779. When foreign corporation may sue. An action may be main
tained by a foreign corporation, in like manner, and subject to the same
regulations, as where the action is brought by a domestic corporation,
except as otherwise specially prescribed by law. But a foreign corporation
cannot maintain an action, founded upon an act, or upon a liability or
obligation, express or implied, arising out of, or made and entered into in
consideration of, an act, which the laws of the State forbid a corporation or
association of individuals to do, without express authority of law. This
section does not affect the validity of a meeting of the stockholders or

directors of a foreign corporation, held within the State, where such a meet
ing is authorized oj the laws of the State, country, or government by or
under which the corporation is created ; or of an act, done at such a meet
ing, which is not in conflict with the same laws or the laws of the State.
§ 1780. When foreign corporation may be sued. An action against a
foreign corporation may be maintained by a resident of the State, or by a
domestic corporation, for any cause of action. An action against a foreign
corporation may be maintained by another foreign corporation, or by a non
resident, in one of the following cases only :
1. Where the action is brought to recover damages for the breach of a
contract, made within the State, or relating to property situated within the
State, at the time of the making thereof.
2. Where it is brought to recover real property situated within the State,
or a chattel, which is replevied within the State.
3 Where the cause of action arose within the State, except where the
object of the action is to affect the title to real property situated without the
State.
ARTICLE SECOND.
Judicial Supervision of a Corporation, and of the Officers and Members thereof.
Section 1781. Action against directors, etc., of a corporation for misconduct.
1782. By whom action to be brought.
1783. This article, how construed.
§ 1781. Action against directors, etc., of a corporation for miscon
duct. An action may be maintained against one or more trustees, directors,
managers, or other officers of a corporation, to procure a judgment for the
following purposes, or so much thereof as the case requires :
1. Compelling the defendants to account for their official conduct, in the
management and disposition of the funds and property, committed to their
charge.
2. Compelling them to pay to the corporation, which they represent, or to
its creditors, any money, and the value of any property, which they have
acquired to themselves, or transferred to others, or lost, or wasted, by a
violation of their duties.
3. Suspending a defendant from exercising his. office, where it appears
that he has abused his trust.
4. Removing a defendant from his office, upon proof or conviction of mis
conduct, and directing a new election to be held by the body or board, duly
authorized to hold the same, in order to supply the vacancy created by the
removal ; or, where there is no such body or board, or where all the mem
bers thereof are removed, directing the removal to be reported to the
governor, who may, with the advice and consent of the senate, fill the
vacancies.
5. Setting aside an alienation of property, made by one or more trustees,
directors, managers, or other officers of a corporation, contrary to a provision
of law, or for a purpose foreign to the lawful business and objects of the
ration, where tlie alienee knew the purpose of tlie alienation.
Restraining and preventing such an alienation, where it is threatened,
or where there is good reason to apprehend that it will be made.
§ 1782. By whom action to be brought An action may be brought,
as prescribed in the last section, by the Attorney-General in behalf of the
people of the State ; or, except where the action is brought for the purpose

specified in subdivision third or fourth of that section, by a creditor of the
corporation, or by a trustee, director, manager, or other officer of the corpo
ration, having a general superintendence of its concerns.
§ 1783. This article, how construed. This article does not divest or
impair any visitorial power over a corporation, which is vested by statute in
a corporate body, or a public officer.
ARTICLE THIRD.
Actions to procure thb Dissolution of a Corporation, and Actions to enforce the
individual Liability op the Officers or Members of a Corporation, with ob with
out a Dissolution thereof.
Action by judgment creditor for sequestration, etc.
Action to dissolve a corporation.
Id. ; by whom to be brought.
Temporary injunction.
Receiver may be appointed. Permanent and temporary receiver. Pow
ers, etc., of temporary receiver.
Additional powers and duties may be conferred upon temporary receiver.
Making stockholders, etc., parties.
When separate action may be brought against them.
Proceedings in either action.
Judgment ; property of corporation to be distributed.
Id. ; stock subscriptions to be recovered.
Id. j as to liabilities of directors and stockholders.
Effect of this article limited.
§ 1784. Action by judgment creditor for sequestration, etc. Where
final judgment for a sum of money has been rendered against a corporation
created by or under the laws of the State, and an execution, issued there
upon to the sheriff of the county, where the corporation transacts its general
business, or where its principal office is located, has been returned wholly or
partly unsatisfied, the judgment creditor may maintain an action to procure
a judgment, sequestrating the property of the corporation, and providing
for a distribution thereof, as prescribed in section 1793 of this act.
§ 1785. Action to dissolve a corporation. In either of the following
cases, an action to procure $ judgment, dissolving a corporation, created by
or under the laws of the State, and forfeiting its corporate rights, privileges,
and franchises, may be maintained as prescribed in the next section :
1. Where the corporation has remained insolvent for at least one year.
2. Where it has neglected or refused, for at least one year, to pay and
discharge its notes or other evidences of debt.
3. Where it has suspended its ordinary and lawful business for at least
one year.
4. If it has banking powers, or power to make loans on pledges or depos
its, or to make insurances, where it becomes insolvent or unable to pay its
debts, or has violated any provision of the action, by or under which it was
incorporated, or of any other act binding upon it.
§ 1786. By whom such action may be maintained. [Amended by
Ch. 301 of 1880.] An action specified in the last section may be maintained
by the attorney-general in the name and in behalf of the people ; and when
ever a creditor or stockholder of any corporation submits to the attorneygeneral a written statement of facts, verified by oath, showing grounds for
an action under the provisions of the last section, and the attorney-general

omits, for sixty days after this submission, to commence an action specified
in the last section, then, and not otherwise, such creditor or stockholder may
apply to the proper court for leave to commence such an action, and on
obtaining leave may maintain the same accordingly.
§ 1787. Temporary injunction. In an action, brought as prescribed in
this article, the court may, upon proof of the facts authorizing the action tobe maintained, grant an injunction order, restraining the corporation, and
its trustees, directors, managers, and other officers, from collecting or receiv
ing any debt or demand, and from paying out, or in any way transferring
or delivering to any person, any money, property, or effects of the corpora
tion, during the pendency of the action ; except by express permission of
the court. Where the action is brought to procure the dissolution of the cor
poration, the injunction may also restrain the corporation, and its trustees,
directors, managers, and other officers from exercising any of its corporate
rights, privileges, or franchises, during the pendency of the action; except
by express permission of the court. The provisions of title second of chap
ter seventh of this act, relating to the granting, vacating, or modifying of
an injunction order, apply to an injunction order, granted as prescribed in
this section ; except that it can be granted only by the court.
§ 1788. Receiver may be appointed ; permanent and temporaryreceiver ; powers, etc., of temporary receiver. In such an action, the
court may also, at any stage thereof, appoint one or more receivers of the
property of the corporation. A receiver, so appointed, before final judgment,
is a temporary receiver, until final judgment is entered. A temporary
receiver has power to collect and receive the debts, demands and other
property of the corporation ; to preserve the property, and proceeds of
the debts and demands collected; to sell or otherwise dispose of the prop
erty as directed by the court ; to collect, receive and preserve the proceeds
thereof; and to maintain any action or special proceeding, for either of those
purposes. He must qualify as prescribed by law for the qualification of a
permanent receiver. Unless additional powers are specially conferred upon
him, as prescribed in the next section, a temporary receiver has only the
powers specified in this section, and those which are incidental to the exor
cise thereof, a receiver appointed by or pursuant to a final judgment in the
action, or a temporary receiver who is continued by the final judgment, is a
permanent receiver, and has all the powers and authority conferred, and is sub
ject to all the duties and liabilities imposed upon a receiver appointed* the volun
tary dissolution of a corporation. [Am'd Ch. 399 of 1882. See § 2.]
§ 1789. Additional powers and duties may be conferred upon tem
porary receiver. A temporary receiver, appointed as prescribed in the
last section, is, in all respects, subject to the control of the court. In addition
to the powers conferred upon him, by the provisions of the last section, the
court may, by the order or interlocutory judgment appointing him, or by an
order subsequently made in the action, or by the final judgment, confer upon
him, the powers and authority, and subject him to the duties and liabilities,
of a permanent receiver, or so much thereof as it thinks proper ; except that
he shall not make any distribution among the creditors or stockholders,
before final judgment, unless he is specially directed so to do by the court.
§ 1790. Making stockholders, etc., parties. Where the action is brought
by a creditor of a corporation, and the stockholders, directors, trustees, or
other officers, or any of them, are made liable by law, in any event or con
tingency, for the payment of his debt, the persons so made liable, may be
made parties defendant, by the original or by a supplemental complaint ;
* So iu original.
and their liability may be declared and enforced by the judgment in the
action.
§ 1791. When separate action may be brought against them. Where
the stockholders, directors, trustees, or other officers of a corporation, who
are made liable, in any event or contingency, for the payment of a debt,
are not made parties defendant, as prescribed in the last section, the plain
tiff in the action may maintain a separate action against them, to procure
a judgment, declaring, apportioning, and enforcing their liability.
§ 1792. Proceedings in either action. In an action, brought as pre
scribed in either of the last two sections, the court must, when it is neces
sary, cause an account to be taken of the property and of the debts of the
corporation, and thereupon the defendant's liability must be apportioned
accordingly ; but, if it affirmatively appears, that the corporation is insol
vent, and has no property to satisfy its creditors the court may, without
taking such an account, ascertain and determine the amount of each defend
ant's liability, and enforce the same accordingly.
§ 1793. Judgment ; property of corporation to be distributed. A
final judgment in an action, brought against a corporation, as prescribed in
this article, either separately or in conjunction with its stockholders, directors,
trustees, or other officers, must provide for a just and fair distribution of the
property of the corporation, and of the proceeds thereof, among its fair and
honest creditors, in the order and in the proportions prescribed by law, in
case of the voluntary dissolution of a corporation.
§ 1794. Id. ; stock subscriptions to be recovered. Where the stock
holders of the corporation are parties to the action, if the property of the
corporation is not sufficient to discharge its debts, the interlocutory or final
judgment, as the case requires, must adjudge that each stockholder pay into
court the amount due and remaining unpaid, on the shares of stock held
by him, or so much thereof as is necessary to satisfy the debts of the corpo
ration.
§ 1795. Id. ; as to liabilities of directors and stockholders. If it
appears, that the property of the corporation, and the sums collected or
collectible from the stockholders, upon their stock subscriptions, are or will
be insufficient to pay the debts of the corporation, the court must ascertain
ths several sums, for which the directors, trustees, or other officers, or the
stockholders of the corporation, being parties to the action, are liable ; and
must adjudge that the same be paid into court, to be applied, in such pro
portions and in such order as justice requires, to the payment of the debts
of the corporation.
§ 1796. Effect of this article limited. This article does not repeal or
affect any special provision of law, prescribing that a particular kind of cor
poration shall cease to exist, or shall be dissolved, in a case or in a manner,
not prescribed in this article ; or any special provision of law, prescribing
the mode of enforcing the liabilty of the stockholders of a particular kind
of corporation.
Action by thk Peoplb to annul a Corporation.
Action by Attorney-General, when Legislature directs.
Id. ; by leave of court.
Leave ; when and how granted.
Action triable by a jury.
Judgment.
Injunction may issue.
Copy of judgment-roll to be filed and published.

§ 1797. Action by Attorney-General when Legislature directs. The
Attorney-General, whenever he is so directed by the Legislature, must bring
an action against a corporation created by or under the laws of the State,
to procure a judgment, vacating or annulling the act of incorporation, or
any act renewing the corporation, or continuing its corporate existence, upon
the ground that the act was procured upon a fraudulent suggestion, or the
concealment of a material fact, made by or with the knowledge and consent
of any of the persons incorporated.
§ 1798. Id. ; by leave of court. Upon leave being granted, as pre
scribed in the next section, the Attorney-General may bring an action
against a corporation created by or under the laws of the State, to procure a
judgment, vacating the charter or annulling the existence of the corporation
upon the ground that it has, either
1. Offended against any provision of an act, by or under which it was
created, altered, or renewed, or an act amending the same, and applicable
to the corporation ; or,
2. Violated any provision of law, whereby it has forfeited its charter, or
become liable to be dissolved, by the abuse of its powers ; or,
3. Forfeited its privileges or franchises, by a failure to exercise its powers ;
or,
4. Done or omitted any act, which amounts to a surrender of its corporate
rights, privileges, and franchises ; or,
5. Exercised a privilege or franchise, not conferred upon it by law.
§ 1799. Leave ; when and how granted. Before granting leave, the
court may, in its discretion, require such previous notice of the application
as it thinks proper, to be given to the corporation, or any officer thereof, and
may hear the corporation in opposition thereto.
§ 1800. Action triable by jury. An action, brought as prescribed in
this article, \s triable, of course and of right, by a jury, as if it was an
action specified in section 968 of this act, and without procuring an erder,
as prescribed in section 970 of this act.
§ 1801. Judgment "Where any of the matters, specified in section 1797
or section 1798 of this act, are established in an action, brought as prescribed
in either of those sections, the court may render final judgment that the
corporation, and each officer thereof, be perpetually enjoined from exercising
any of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises ; and that it be dis
solved. The judgment must also provide for the appointment of a receiver,
the taking of an account, and the distribution of the property of the corpora
tion, among its creditors and stockholders, as where a corporation is dissolved
upon its voluntary application, as prescribed in chapter seventeenth of this
act.
§ 1802. Injunction may issue. In an action, brought as prescribed in
this article, an injunction order may be granted, at any stage of the action,
restraining the corporation, and any or all of its directors, trustees, and
other officers, from exercising any of its corporate rights, privileges, or fran
chises; or from exercising certain of its corporate rights, privileges, or
franchises, specified in the injunction order; or from exercising any fran
chise, liberty, or privilege, or transacting any business, not allowed by law.
Such an injunction is deemed one of those specified in section 603 of this act,
and all the provisions of title second of chapter seventh of this act, applica
ble to an injunction specified in that section, apply to an injunction granted
as prescribed in this section, except that it can be granted only by the
court.
§ 1803. Copy of judgment-roll to be filed and published Where
final judgment is rendered agaiust a corporation, in an action, brought as
prescribed in this article, the Attorney-General must cause a copy of the
judgment-roll to be forthwith filed in the office of the Secretary of State,
who must cause a notice of the substance and effect of the judgment, to be
published, for four weeks, in the newspaper printed at Albany, in which
legal notices are required to be published, and also in a newspaper printed
in the county, wherein the principal place of business of the corporation was
located.
ARTICLE EIFTH.
Provisions applicable to Two or more, op thk Actions specified in this title.
Certain corporations excepted from, certain articles of this title.
Officers and agents may be compelled to testify.
Injunction staying actions by creditors.
Creditors may be brought in.
When Attorney-General must bring action.
Requisites of injunction against corporations in certain cases.
Id. ; of order appointing receiver in certain cases.
Id. ; of judicial suspension or removal of an officer.
Application of the last three sections.
In action against stockholders, misnomer, etc., not available.
8 1804. Certain corporations excepted from certain articles of this
title. Articles second, third, and fourth of this title do not apply to an
incorporated library society ; to a religious corporation ; to a select school
or academy, incorporated by the regents of the university, or by an act of
the Legislature ; or to a municipal or other political corporation, created by
the constitution, or by or under the laws of the State.
§ 1805. Officers and agents may be compelled to testify. In an
action, brought as prescribed in article second, third, or fourth of this title,
a stockholder, officer, alienee, or agent of a corporation, is not excused from
answering a question, relating to the management of the corporation, or the
transfer or disposition of its property, on the ground that his answer may
expose the corporation to a forfeiture of any of its corporate rights, or will
tend to convict him of a criminal offense, or to subject him to a penalty or
forfeiture. But his testimony shall not be used, as evidence against him, in
a criminal action or special proceeding.
§ 1806. Injunction staying actions by creditors. In such an action,
the court may, in its discretion, on the application of either party, at any
stage of the action, before or after final judgment, and with or without
security, grant an injunction order, restraining the creditors of the corpo
ration from bringing actions against the defendants, or any of them, for the
recovery of a sum of money, or from taking any further proceedings in such
actions, theretofore commenced. Such an injunction has the same effect,
and, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this section, is subject to
the same provisions of law, as if each creditor, upon whom it is served, was
named therein, and was a party to the action in which it is granted.
§ 1807. Creditors may be brought in, In such an action, the court
may, at any stage of the action before or after final judgment, make an
order, requiring all the creditors of the corporation to exhibit and prove
their claims, an'l thereby make themselves parties to the action, in such a
manner, and within such a' reasonable time, not less than six months from
the first publication of notice of the order, as the court directs; and that the
creditors, who make default in so doing, shall be precluded from all benefit
of the judgment, and from any distribution which may be made thereunder.
Notice of the order must be given, by publication, in such newspapers and
for such a length of time, as the court directs.
§ 1808. When Attorney-General must bring action. Where the
Attorney-General has good reason to believe, that an action can be main
tained in behalf of the people of the State, as prescribed in article second,
third, or fourth of this title, except section 1797 of this act, he must bringj
an action accordingly, or apply to a competent court for leave to bring an
action, as the case requires ; if, in his opinion, the public interests require
that an action should be brought. In a case where the action can be brought
only by the Attorney-General in behalf of the people, if a creditor, stock
holder, director, or trustee of the corporation, applies to the Attorney-General
for that purpose, and furnishes the security required by law, the AttorneyGeneral must bring the action, or apply for leave to bring it, if he has good
reason to believe, that it can be maintained. Where such an application is
made, section 1986 of this act applies thereto, and to the action brought in
pursuance thereof.
§ 1809. Requisites of injunction against corporations in certain
cases. An injunction order, suspending the general and ordinary business
of a corporation, or of a joint-stock association, consisting of seven or more
persons, or suspending from office, or restraining from the performance of
his duties, a trustee, director, or other officer thereof, can be granted only
by the court, upon notice of the application therefore, to the proper officer of
the corporation or association, or to the trustee, director, or other officer
enjoined. If such an injunction order is made, otherwise than as prescribed
in this section, it is void.
§ 1810. Id. ; of order appointing a receiver in certain cases. A re
ceiver of the property of a corporation can be appointed only by the court,
and in one of the following cases :
1. An action, brought as prescribed in article second, third, or fourth of
this title.
2. An action brought for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon the property,
of which the receiver is appointed, where the mortgage debt, or the interest
thereupon, has remained unpaid, at least thirty days after it was payable,
and after payment thereof was duly demanded of the proper officer of the
corporation; and where either the income of the property is specifically
mortgaged, or the property itself is probably insufficient to pay the mort
gage debt
3. An action brought by the Attorney-General, or by a stockholder, to
preserve the assets of a corporation, having no officer empowered to hold the
same.
4. A special proceeding for the voluntary dissolution of a corporation.
Where the receiver is appointed in an action, otherwise than by or pursu
ant to a final judgment, notice of the application for his appointment, must
be given to the proper officer of the corporation.
§ 1811. Id. ; of judicial suspension or removal of an officer. A trus
tee, director, or other officer of a corporation shall not be suspended or
removed from office, by a court or judge, otherwise than by the final judg
ment of a competent court, in an action brought by the Attorney-General, as
prescribed in section 1781 of this act.

§ 1812. Application of the last three sections. The last three sec
tions apply to an action or a special proceeding, against a corporation, or
joint-stock association created by or under the laws of the State, or a trus
tee, director, or other officer thereof; or against a corporation, or joint-stock
association created by or under the laws of another State, government, or
country, or a trustee, director, or other officer thereof, where the corporation
or association does business within the State, or has, within the State, a
business agency or a fiscal agency, or an agency for the transfer of its stock.
1813. In action against stockholders, misnomer, etc., not available.
ere an action, authorized by a law of the State, is brought against one
or more persons, as stockholders of a corporation or joint-stock association,
an objection to any of the proceedings cannot be taken, by a person properly
made a defendant in the action, on the ground that the plaintifff has joined
with him, as a defendant in the action, a person whose name appears on
the stock-books of the corporation or association, as a stockholder thereof, by
the name so appearing ; but who is misnamed, or dead, or is not liable for
any cause. In such a case, the court may, at any time before final judg
ment, upon motion of either party, amend the pleadings and other papers,
without prejudice to the previous proceedings, by substituting the true
name of the person intended, or by striking out the name of the person who
is dead, or not liable, and, in a proper case, inserting the name of his repre
sentative or successor.


Action by or against an executor or administrator.
Action by a creditor against his debtor's next of kin, legatee, heir, or devisee,
Action to establish or impeach a will.
General and miscellaneous provisions.
ARTICLE FIRST.
Action by or against an Exbcdtor or Administrator.

§ 1814. Action, etc., by and against executor, etc., to be brought in
representative capacity. An action or special proceeding, hereafter com
menced by an executor or administrator, upon a cause of action, belonging
to him in his representative capacity, or an action or special proceeding,
hereafter commenced against him, except where it is brought to charge him
personally, must be brought by or against him in his representative capacity.
A judgment, in an action hereafter commenced, recovered against an execu
tor or administrator, without describing him in his representative capacity,
cannot be enforced against the property of the decedent, except by the
special direction of the court, contained therein.
§ 1815. When personal and representative causes of action may be
joined. An action may be brought against an executor or administrator,
personally, and also in his representative capacity, in either of the following
cases :
1. "Where the complaint sets forth a cause of action against him in both
capacities, or states facts, which render it uncertain, in which capacity the
cause of action exists against him.
2. Where the complaint sets forth two or more causes of action against the
defendant, in different capacities, all of which grow out of the same trans
action, or transactions connected with the same subject of action ; do not
require different places or modes trial ; and are not inconsistent with each
other.
In a case specified in this section, a judgment for the plaintifff for a sum
of money must distinctly show, whether it is awarded against the defendant
personally, or in his representative capacity,
§ 1816. Id.; separate dockets and executions. In a case specified in
the last section, or where costs, to be collected out of the individual property
of an executor or administrator, are awarded in an action by or against him
in his representative capacity, so much of the judgment, as awards a sum of
money against him personally, may be separately docketed, and a separate
execution may be issued thereupon, as if the judgment contained no award
against him in his representative capacity.
§ 1817. Regulations, when some of the executors, etc., are not summoned. In an action or special
or administrators, representing the same decedent, all are considered as one
person ; and those who are first served with process, or first appear, must
answer the plaintifff. Separate answers, by different executors or adminis
trators, cannot be required or allowed, except by direction of the court.
Judgment in favor of the plaintifff may be entered, and, in a proper case,
execution may be issued against all the defendants, as if all had appeared.
But this section does not affect the plaintifff's right to bring into court all the
executors or administrators who are parties.
§ 1818. Executors who have not qualified, not necessary parties.
One of two or more executors, to whonl letters testamentary have not been
issued, is not a necessary party to an action or special proceeding, in favor
of or against the executors, in their representative capacity.
§ 1819. Action by legatee, etc., against executor, etc. If, after the
expiration of one year from the granting of letters testamentary, or letters of
administration, an executor or administrator refuses, upon demand, to pay a
legacy, or distributive share, the person entitled thereto may maintain such
an action against him as the case requires. But for the purpose of comput
ing the time within which such an action must be commenced, the cause of
action is deemed to accrue when the executor's or administrator's account is
judicially settled, and not before.
§ 1820. Id. ; by infant ; guardian's bond. The guardian ad litem of
an infant, in whose favor an action is brought, as prescribed in the last sec
tion, must, unless he is also the general guardian, execute and file with the
clerk, before the commencement of the action, a bond to the infant, with at
least two sufficient sureties, in a penalty fixed by a judge of the court, con
ditioned that the guardian will duly account to the infant, when he attains
full age, or, in case of his death, to his personal representatives, for all
money or property which the guardian may receive, by reason of the legacy
or distributive share.
§ 1821. When action barred by judgment against heir, etc. A final
judgment against an heir or devisee, bars an action against the executor or
administrator of the decedent, for the same cause, and every other remedy
to enforce payment thereof out of the decedent's property ; unless an execu
tion against property, issued upon the judgment, has been returned wholly
or partly unsatisfied, or sufficient real property to satisfy the judgment has
not descended, or been devised to the judgment debtor. But, if the judg
ment was recovered for a debt or legacy, expressly charged upon the estate
descended or devised, the bar is absolute.
§ 1822. Limitation of action by creditor, on claim rejected etc.
Where an executor or administrator disputes or rejects a claim against the
estate of the decedent, exhibited to him either before or after the commence
ment of the publication of a notice requiring the presentation of claims, as
prescribed by l iw, unless the claim is referred, as prescribed by law, the
claimant must commence an action, for the recovery thereof against the exe
cutor or administrator, within six months after the dispute or rejection, or,
if no part, of the debt is then due, within six months afterapait thereof
becomes due; in default whereof, he, and all persons claiming under him,
are forever barred from maintaining such an action thereupon, and from
every other remedv to enforce payment thereof, out of the decedent's prop
erty. [Am'd Ch. 309 of 1882.]
[Ch. 399 of 1 882. § 2. This act shall take effect immediately. But the amend
ment made, by this act to section eighteen hundred and twenty-two shall not apply
when letters have been issued to one or more executors or administrators before this
act takes effect ; nor shall any amendment, made by this act, invalidate or impair
the effect of any proceeding heretofore taken.]
§ 1823. Decedents real property not bound by judgment against
executor, etc. Real property, which belonged to a decedent, is not bound,
or in any way affected, by a judgment against his executor or administrator,
and is not liable to be sold by virtue of an execution issued upon such a judg
ment, unless the judgment is expressly made, by its terms, a lien upon spe
cific real property therein described, or expressly directs the sale thereof.
§ 1824. Want of assets not to be pleaded by executor, etc. In an
action against an executor or administrator, in his representative capacity,
wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum of money, the existence,
sufficiency, or want of assets, shall not be pleaded by either party ; and the
plaintifff's right of recovery is not affected thereby, except with respect to
the costs to be awarded, as prescribed bylaw. A judgment in such an
action is not evidence of assets in the defendant's hands.
§ 1825. Leave to issue execution against executor, etc. An execu
tion shall not, be issued, upon a judgment, for a sum of money, against an
executor or administrator, in his representative capacity, until an order, per
mitting it to be issued, has been made by the surrogate, from whose court
the letters were issued. Such an order must specify the sum to be collected ;
and the execution must be indorsed with a direction to collect that sum.
§ 1826. Id. ; how procured ; order ; and contents thereof At least
six days' notice of the application for an order specified in the last section,
must be personally served upon the executor or administrator, unless it
appears that service cannot be so made with due diligence ; in which case,
notice must be given to such persons, and in such manner, as the surrogate
directs, by an order to show cause why the application should not be granted.
"Where it appears that the assets, after payment of all sums chargeable
against them for expenses, and for claims entitled to priority as against the
plaintifff, are not or will not be, sufficient to pay all the debts, legacies, or
other claims of the class to which the plaintifff's claim belongs, the sum,
directed to be collected by the execution, shall not exceed the plaintifff's just
proportion of the assets. In that case, one or more orders may be after
wards made in like manner, and one or more executions may be afterwards
issued, whenever it appears that the sum, directed to be collected by the
first execution, is less than the plaintifff's just proportion.
§ 1827. Security may be required from a legatee. Where a judgment
has been rendered against an executor or administrator, for a legacy or dis
tributive share, the surrogate, before granting an order, permitting an exe
cution to be issued thereupon, may, and, in a proper case, must, require the
applicant to file in his office, an undertaking to the defendant, in such a
sum, and with such sureties, as the surrogate directs, to the effect, that if,
after collection of any sum of money by virtue of the execution, the remain
ing assets are not sufficient to pay all sums, for which the defendant is
chargeable, for expenses, claims entitled to priority as against the appli
cant, and the other legacies or distributive shares, of the class to which the
applicant's claim belongs, the plaintifff will refund to the defendant, the sum
so collected, or such ratable part thereof, with the other legatees or repre
sentatives of the same class, as is necessary to make up the deficiency.
§ 1828. Actions, etc., when not to abate. An executor, administrator,
or a person appointed by the surrogate, as prescribed in chapter eighteenth
of this act, to dispose of the real property of a decedent, is deemed a trus
tee, appointed by virtue of a statute, within the meaning of that expression,
as used in section 700 of this act.
§ 1829. Execution on former judgment. An execution may be issued,
in the name of an executor or administrator, in his representative capacity,
upon a judgment recovered by any person who preceded him in the admin
istration of the same estate, in any case where it might have been issued in
favor of the original plaintifff, and without a substitution.
§ 1830. Action against executor, etc., who has been superseded If
an executor or administrator is defendant in an action or special proceeding,
pending when his powers cease, the plaintifff may, in a proper case, proceed
therein against him, to charge him personally; but a judgment or other
determination, thereafter rendered or made against him, is not of any force
as against the estate of the decedent, or a person succeeding to the admin
istration thereof.
§1831 False pleading by executor, etc. An executor or administra
tor cannot be made personally liable to the adverse party, for a debt or for
damages, by reason of his having made a false allegation in pleading.

§ 1832. When inventory may be contradicted. In an action or special
proceeding, to which an executor or administrator is a party, wherein the
question, whether he has administered the estate of the decedent, or any
part thereof, is in issue, or is the subject of inquiry, and the inventory of
assets, filed by him, is given in evidence, either party may rebut the same,
by proof, either :
1. That any property was omitted in the inventory, or was not returned
therein at its true value ; or,
2. That any property has perished, or has been lost, without the fault of
the executor or administrator ; or has been fairly sold by him, at private or
public sale, at a less price than the value so returned ; or that, since the
return of the inventory, it has deteriorated or enhanced in value.
§ 1833. Liability for uncollected demands. In such an action or
special proceeding, the executor or administrator shall not be charged with
a demand or right of action, included in the inventory, unless it appears
that the same has been collected, or might have been collected with due
diligence.
§ 1834. The last two sections qualified. The last two sections do not
vary any rule of evidence, respecting any proof, which an executor or admin
istrator may now make.
§ 1835. Costs ; how awarded. Where a judgment for a sum of money
only is rendered against an executor or administrator, in an action brought
against him in his representative capacity, costs shall not be awarded against
him, except as prescribed in the next section.
§ 1836. Id. ; when awarded. Where it appears, in a case specified in
the last section, that the plaintifff's demand was presented within the time
limited by a notice, published as prescribed by law, requiring creditors to
present their claims ; and that the payment thereof was unreasonably resisted
or neglected, or that the defendant refused to refer the claim, as prescribed
by law ; the court may award costs against the executor or administrator, to
be collected, either out of his individual property, or out of the property of
the decedent, as the court directs, having reference to the facts which
appeared upon the trial. Where the action is brought in the supreme court,
or in a superior city court, the facts must be certified by the judge or referee,
before whom the trial took place.

When action lies against next of kin, legatees, etc.
Action may be joint or several.
In joint action, recovery to be apportioned.
Recovery in a several action.
Requisites to recovery in action against legatee.
Id. ; in action against a preferred legatee.
Liability of heirs and devisees.
When action therefore may be brought.
Effect of application to sell real property.
Action must be joint.
Recovery to be apportioned.
Requisites to recovery against heirs.
Id. ; against devisees.
Deductions for prior recoveries.
Complaint to describe land descended, etc.
Judgment ; when to be satisfied out of land.
Id. ; when not a lien on land aliened.
How judgment taken, when land aliened.
Classification of debts to be enforced under this article.
Defence by reason of other prior or equal claims.
Id. ; when such a claim is paid.
Action not suspended by infancy.
This article not applicable, where will charges real property, etc.
One action, where same person is heir, devisee, etc.

§ 1837. When action lies against next of kin, legatees, etc. An
action may be maintained, as prescribed in this article, against the surviving
husband or wife of a decedent, and the next of kin of an estate, or the next
of kin or legatee of a testator, to recover, to the extent of the assets paid or
distributed to them, for a debt of the decedent, upon which an action might
have been maintained against the executor or administrator. The neglect
of the creditor to present his claim to the executor or administrator, within
the time prescribed by law for that purpose, does not impair his right to
maintain such an action.
§ 1838. Action may be joint or several An action specified in the
last section, must be brought, either jointly against the surviving husband
or wife, and all the legatees, or all the next of kin, as the case may be, or,
at the plaintifff's election, against one of them only. But where a legacy ia
received by two or more persons jointly, they are deemed one legatee, within
the meaning of each provision of this article, relating to legatees.
§ 1839. In joint action, recovery to be apportioned. Where a joint
action is brought, as prescribed in tho last section, the whole sum, which the
plaintifff is entitled to recover, must be apportioned among the defendants,
in proportion to the legacy or distributive share, as the case may be, received
by each of them; and the final judgment must award, against each defend
ant separately, the proportionate sum thus ascertained. The costs of the
action, if the plaintifff is entitled to costs, must be apportioned in like man
ner; except that the expenses of serving the summons upon each defendant
must be taxed against him only; and one sheriff's fee, for returning an
execution, may be taxed against each defendant, against whom any sum is
awarded.
§ 1840. Recovery in a several action. Where an action is brought
against the surviving husband or wife only, or against one only of the next
of kin, or legatees, the stun, which the plaintifff is entitled to recover, cannot
exceed the sum which he would have been entitled to recover from the same
defendant, in action brought, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1841. Requisites to recovery in action against legatee. If the
action is brought against a legatee, or against all the legatees, the plaintifff
must show, either :
1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or administrator of the
decedent, to the surviving husband or wife, or next of kin ; or,
2. That the value of assets, so delivered, has been recovered by some other
creditor ; or,
3. That those assets, after payment of the expenses of administration and
preferred demands, are not sufficient to satisfy the demand of the plaintifff;
in which case, he can recover only for the deficiency.
§ 1842. Id. ; in action against a preferred legatee. Where some of the
legatees are preferred to others, an action may be maintained, as prescribed
in the last five sections, against one or all of those who are equally preferred,
or equally deferred, as if the legatees of that class were all the legatees.
But where it is brought against a preferred legatee, or a class of preferred
legatees, the plaintifff must show, in addition to the matters, with respect to
the next of kin. required by the provisions of the last section, the same mat
ters, with respect to each legatee, or class of legatees, to whom the defendtl843. Liability of heirs and devisees. The heirs of an intestate,
the heirs and devisees of a testator, are respectively liable for the debts
of the decedent, arising by simple contract, or by specialty, to the extent of
the estate, interest, and right in the real property, which descended to them
from, or was effectually devised to them by, the decedent.
8 1844. When action therefore may be brought. But an action, to
enforce the liability declared in the last section, cannot be maintained,
except in one of the following cases ;
1. Where three years have elapsed since the death of the decedent, and
no letters testamentary, or letters of administration, upon his estate, have
been granted within the State.
2. Where three years have elapsed, since letters testamentary, or letters
of administration, upon his estate, were granted, within the State.
§ 1845. Effect of application to sell real property. Where it appears
that, at the time of the commencement of such an action, a petition, season
ably presented as prescribed by law, praying for a decree to dispose of real
property of the decedent, for the payment of his debts, was pending in a ,
surrogate's court having jurisdiction, the proceedings in the action, subse
quent to the complaint, must be stayed by the court, until the petition is
disposed of, unless the plaintifff elects to discontinue. If a decree to dispose
of real property, pursuant to the prayer of the petition, is granted, the
action must be dismissed, unless the plaintifff has alleged in his complaint,
or alleges in a supplemental complaint, that real property, other than that
included in the decree, descended or was devised to the defendants. If the
plaintifff elects to proceed under such an allegation, he is entitled to a pre
ference in payment, out of the real property, with respect to which the
allegation is made ; but he cannot share, as a creditor, in the distribution of
the money, arising from the disposal of the real property, described in the
decree ; and the judgment in the action does not charge, or in any way
affect, that property.
§ 1846. Action must be joint. An action against heirs or devisees,
brought as prescribed in the last three sections, must be brought jointly
against all the heirs, to whom any real property descended from the dece
dent, or jointly against all the devisees, as the case may be.
§ 1847. Recovery to be apportioned In such an action, the sum,
which the plaintifff is entitled to recover, for damages and costs, must be
apportioned among all the defendants, in proportion to the value of the real
property descended to each heir, or devised to each devisee, as the case may
be, as prescribed in section 1839 of this act, for a similar apportionment
among legatees or next of kin, in proportion to the assets received by them.
The final judgment must, in like manner, award against each defendant the
proportionate sum, with which he is chargeable.
§ 1848. Requisites to recovery against heirs. Where the action is
brought against heirs, the plaintifff must show, either :

1. That the decedent's assets, if any, within the State, were not sufficient
to pay the plaintifff's debt, in addition to the expenses of administration,
and debts of a prior class ; or
2. That the plaintifff has been unable, or will be unable, with due dili
gence, to collect his debt, by proceeding's in the proper surrogate's court,
and by action against the executor or administrator, and against the sur
viving husband or wife, legatees, or next of kin.
The executor's or administrator's account, as rendered to, and settled by,
the suiTogate, may be used as presumptive evidence of any of the facts,
required to be shown by this section.
§ 1849. Id. ; against devisees. Where the action is brought against
devisees, the plaintifff must show, in addition to the matters specified in the
last section, either that the real property of the decedent, which descended
to his heirs, was not sufficient to pay the plaintifff's debt, or that the plain
tiff has been unable, or will be unable, with due diligence, to collect the
debt by an action against the heirs.
§ 1850. Deductions for prior recoveries. Where the assets, applicable
to the plaintifff's debt, were sufficient to pay a part thereof, or a part thereof
has been collected from the executor or administrator, or from the surviving
husband or wife, next of kin, or legatees, the plaintifff can recover only for
the residue, remaining unpaid or uncollected ; and if the action is against
devisees, he can recover only for the residue, which the real estate descended,
or the amount of his recovery against the heirs, is insufficient to discharge.
§ 1851. Complaint to describe land descended, etc. The complaint
must describe, with common certainty, the real property, descended or
devised to the defendant ; and must specify its value.
§ 1852. Judgment; when to be satisfied out of land. If it appears
that any of the real property, which descended or was devised to a defend
ant, had not been aliened by him at the time of the commencement of the
action, the final judgment must direct that the debt of the plaintifff, or the
proportion thereof which he is entitled to recover against that defendant, be
collected out of that real property. Such a judgment is preferred as a lien
upon that property, to a judgment obtained against the defendant, for his
individual debt or demand.
§ 1853. Id. ; when not a lien on land aliened. But a judgment ren
dered as prescribed in the last section, does not bind, and the execution
thereupon cannot in any way affect, the title of a purchaser, in good faith
and for value, acquired before a notice of the pendency of the action is
filed, or final judgment is entered, and the judgment-roll filed.
§ 1854. How judgment taken, when land aliened. If it appears that
before the commencement of the action, or afterwards and before the filing
of a notice of the pendency of the action, the defendant aliened the real
property descended or devised to him, or any part thereof, the plaintifff may,
at his election, take a final judgment against him for the value of the prop
erty so aliened, or so much thereof as may be necessary, as in an action for
the defendant's own debt.
§ 1855. Classification of debts to be enforced under this article.
Where the surviving husband or wife, next of kin, legatees, heirs, or
devisees, are liable for demands against the decedent, as prescribed in this
article, they must give preference in the payment thereof, and they are so
liable therefore, in the order prescribed by law, for the payment of debts by
an executor or administrator. Preference of payment cannot be given to a
demand, over another of the same class, except where a similar preference
by an executor or administrator is allowed by law. The commencement of
an action, under any provision of this article, does not entitle the plaintifff's
demand to preference over another of the same class, except as otherwise
specially prescribed by law.
§ 1856. Defence by reason of other prior or equal claims. Where it
appears, in an action brought as prescribed in this article, that there are
unsatisfied demands against the decedent's estate, of a class prior to that
of the plaintifff's demand, the defendant is entitled to judgment, if the
value of the property, which was received, devised, or inherited, as the case
may be, by the class to which he belongs, does not exceed the amount of the
valid demands of a prior class. If it exceeds the amount of those demands,
the judgment against the defendant cannot exceed such a proportion of the
plaintifff s demand, as the total amount of the valid demands of his class
bears to the excess.
§ 1857. Id. ; when such a claim is paid. Where a defendant, or a
person belonging to his class, has paid a demand against the decedent's
estate, of a class prior to that of the plaintifff's demand, or has paid a
demand of the same class, the amount of the demand so paid must be
estimated, in ascertaining the amount to be recovered, as if it was outstand
ing and unpaid.
§ 1858. Action not suspended by infancy. An action against heirs or
devisees, brought as prescribed in this article, is not delayed, nor is the
remedy of the plaintifff suspended, by reason of the infancy of any of the
parties ; except that an execution shall not be issued against an infant heir
or devisee, until the expiration of one year after final judgment is rendered,
and the judgment-roll filed.
§ 1859. This article not applicable, where will charges real prop
erty, etc. This article does not affect the liability of an heir or devisee, for
a debt of a testator, where the will expressly charges the debt exclusively
upon the real property descended or devised, or makes it payable exclusively
by the heir or devisee, or out of the real property descended or- devised,
before resorting to the personal property, or to any other real property
descended or devised.
§ 1860. One action, where same person is heir, devisee, etc. Where
a person who takes real property of a decedent by devise, and also by
descent ; or who takes personal property as next of kin, and also as legatee ;
or who takes both real and personal property in either capacity ; or who is
executor or administrator, and also takes in either of the before mentioned
capacities ; would be liable, in one capacity, for a demand against the dece
dent, after the exhaustion of the remedy against him in another capacity ;
the plaintifff, in any action to charge him, which can be maintained, without
joining with him any other person, except a person whose liability is in all
respects the same, may recover any sum for which he is liable, although the
remedy against him in another capacity was not exhausted. But this section
does not increase the sum which the plaintifff is entitled to recover against
him, in the capacity in which he is actually liable ; nor does it charge a
defendant individually, who is liable only in a representative capacity.
'When action to establish a will may be brought
Judgment that will be established.
Judgment admitting the will to probate.
Contents of judgment ; surrogate's duty.
Proof of lost will in certain cases.
Action to establish, etc., will relating to real property.
Retrospective effect of this article.

§ 1861. When action to establish a will may be brought. An action
to procure a judgment, establishing a will, may be maintained by any person
interested in the establishment thereof, in either of the following cases :
1. Where a will of real or personal property, or both, has been executed,
in such a manner and under such circumstances, that it might, under the
laws of the State, be admitted to probate in a surrogate's court; but the
original will is in another State or country, under such circumstances that it
cannot be obtained for that purpose ; or has been lost or destroyed, by acci
dent or design, before it was duly proved and recorded within the State.
2. "Where a will of personal property, made by a person who resided with
out the State at the time of the execution thereof, or at the time of his
death, has been duly executed, according to the laws of the State or country
in which it was executed, or in which the testator resided at the time of his
death, and the case is not one where the will can be admitted to probate in
a surrogate's court under the laws of the State.
§ 1862. Judgment that will be established. If, in such an action, the
facts necessary to establish the validity of the will, as prescribed in the last
section, are satisfactorily proved, final judgment must be rendered, establishing the will accordingly. But where the will of a person, who was a resi
dent of the State at the time of his death, is established as prescribed in the
last section, the judgment establishing it does not affect the construction or
validity of any provision contained therein ; and such a question arising with
respect to any provision, must be determined in the same action, or in another
action or a special proceeding, as the caee requires, as if the will was exe
cuted within the State.
§ 1863. Judgment admitting the will to probate. Where the parties
to the action, who has appeared or have been duly summoned, include all
the persons who would be necessary parties to a special proceeding in a sur
rogate's court, for the probate of the same will and the grant of letters there
upon, if the circumstances were such that it could have been proved in a sur
rogate's court ; the final judgment, rendered as prescribed in the last section,
must direct, that an exemplified copy thereof be transmitted to the surrogate
having jurisdiction, and be recorded in his office ; and that letters testamen
tary, or letters of administration with the will annexed, be issued thereupon
from his court, in the same manner, and with like effect, as upon a will duly
proved in that court.
§ 1864. Contents of judgment ; surrogate's duty. A copy of the will
so established, or, if it is lost or destroyed, the substance thereof, must be
incorporated into a final judgment, rendered as prescribed in the last section;
and the surrogate must record the same, and issue letters thereupon, as
directed in the judgment.
§ 1865. Proof of lost will in certain cases. But the plaintifff is not
entitled to a judgment, establishing a lost or destroyed will, as prescribed in
this article, unless the will was in existence, at the time of the testator's
death, or was fraudulently destroyed in his life-time ; and its provisions are
clearly and distinctly proved by at least two credible witnesses, a correct
copy or draft being equivalent to one witness.
§ 1866. Action to establish, etc., will, relating to real property. The
validity, construction or effect, under the laws of the State, of a testamentary
disposition of real property situated within the State, or of an interest in such
property, which would descend to the heir of an intestate, may be determined,
in an action brought for that purpose, in like manner as the validity of a
deed, purporting to convey land, may be determined. The judgment in
such an action may perpetually enjoin any party, from settiug up or from
impeaching the devise, or otherwise making any claim in contravention to
the determination of the court, as justice requires. But this section does not
apply to a case, where the question in controversy is determined by the
decree of a surrogate's court, duly rendered upon allegations for that purpose,
as prescribed in article first of title third of chapter eighteenth of this act,
where the plaintifff was duly cited, in the special proceeding in the surro
gate's court, before the commencement of the action.
§ 1867. Retrospective effect of this article. The provisions of this
article apply as well to wills made before, as to those made after, this article
takes effect.
ARTICLE FOURTH.
GSNKRAL AMD MISCBLLANBODS PROVISIONS.
Section 1868. Action by child born after will, or by witness to will.
1869. Receiver, as successor of surviving' executor, etc.
1870. Next of kin denned.
8 1868. Action by child born after will, or by witness to wilL A
chud, born after the making of a will, who is entitled to succeed to a part of
the real or personal property of the testator, or a subscribing witness to a
will, who is entitled to succeed to a share of such property, may maintain an
action against the legatees or devisees, as the case requires, to recover his
share of the property ; and he is subject to the same liabilities, and has the
same rights, and is entitled to the same remedies, to compel a distribution
or partition of the property, or a contribution from other persons interested
in the estate, or to gain possession of the property, as any other person who
is so entitled to succeed.
§ 1869. Receiver, as successor of surviving executor, etc. Where
the estate of a decedent has been brought under the jurisdiction of the
supreme court, or of a superior city court, by an action for partition or distri
bution, or for the construction or establishment of a will, the court may, upon
the death of the sole surviving executor, appoint a receiver of the estate,
pending the action, upon such terms and conditions, and upon such notice to
the parties interested, as the court directs, and upon such security, if any,
as to the court seems proper. For the purpose of carrying into effect the
judgment and orders of the court, in relation to the estate, a receiver so
appointed is the successor in interest of the surviving executor ; and has,
subject to the direction of the court, the like power, as an administrator with
the will annexed.
§ 1870. Next of kin defined. The term, " next of kin," as used in this
title, includes all those entitled, under the provisions of law relating to the
distribution of personal property, to share in the unbequeathed assets of a
decedent, after payment of debte and expenses, other than a surviving hus
band or wife.
Judgment creditor's action.
Action by a private person upon an official bond.
Action by a private person for a penalty or forfeiture.
Certain actions to recover damages for wrongs.
Miscellaneous actions and rights of action.
ARTICLE FIRST.
Judgment Creditor's Actios.

When judgment creditor may bring action.
To what county execution must be issued.
What property may be reached.
Interest of judgment debtor in land contract may be reached.
Id. ; how applied.
Injunction may be issued.
Receiver may be appointed.
How discovery may be compelled.
Application of this article ; what property cannot be reached.

§ 1871. Whenjudgment creditor may bring action Where an execu
tion, against the property of a judgment debtor, issued out of a court of
record, as prescribed in the next section, has been returned wholly or partly
unsatisfied, the judgment creditor may maintain an action against the judg
ment debtor, and any other person, to compel the discovery of anything in
action, or other property belonging to the judgment debtor, and of any
money, thing in action, or other property due to him, or held in trust, for
him ; to prevent the transfer thereof, or the payment or delivery thereof, to
him, or to any other person ; and to procure satisfaction of the plaintifff's
demand, as prescribed in the next section but one. Where the execution
was issued as prescribed in section 1934 of this act, and a defendant not
summoned in the original action is made a defendant in an action brought
under this section, personal property, owned by him jointly with the defend
ants summoned or with any of them, may be applied to the satisfaction of
the plaintifff's demand as prescribed in this article.
tl872. To what county execution must have issued To entitle the
gment creditor to maintain an action as prescribed in the last section,
the execution must have been issued as follows :
1. If, at the time of the commencement of the action, the judgment debtor
is a resident of the State, to the sheriff of the county where he resides.
2. If he is not then a resident of the State, to the sheriff of the county
where he has an office, for the regular transaction of business in person; or,
if he has no such office within the State, to the sheriff of the county where
the judgment-roll is filed, unless the execution was issued out of a court,
other than the court in which the judgment was rendered, in which case, it
must have been issued to the sheriff of the county where a transcript of the
judgment is filed.
§ 1873. What property may be reached. The final judgment in the
action must direct and provide for the satisfaction of the sum due to the
plaintifff, out of any money, thing in action, or other personal property,
belonging to, or due to the judgment debtor, or held in trust for him, which
is discovered in the action ; whether the same might or might not have been
originally taken, by virtue of an execution.
§ 1874. Interest ofjudgment debtor in land contract may be reached.
The final judgment in the action must also direct and provide for the satis
faction of the sum due to the plaintifff, out of the interest, if any, of the judg
ment debtor, in a contract for the purchase of real property by him ; either
by selling the interest, or by transferring it to the judgment creditor, in such
a manner and upon such terms, as the court deems most conducive to the
interests of the parties. Where the person, bound to perform the contract to
the judgment debtor, is a defendant in the action, the final judgment may
direct a specific performance of the contract to the judgment creditor, or
where the interest in the contract is directed to be sold, to the purchaser.
§ 1875. Id ; how applied In a case specified in the last section, the
value of the interest of the judgment debtor holding the contract must be
ascertained, under the direction of the court ; and so much thereof as is
necessary must be applied to the payment of the sum due to the plaintifff,
and the residue, if any, to the benefit of the judgment debtor.
§ 1876. Injunction may be issued A temporary injunction, restraining
the transfer to any person, or the payment or delivery to the judgment
debtor, of any money, thing in action, or other property or interest, which
may, by the provisions of this article, be applied to the satisfaction of the
sum due to the plaintifff, may be granted in the action. The injunction, and
the proceedings before and after it is granted, are governed by the provisions
of article first of title second of chapter seventh of this act ; for which pur
pose, the injunction is deemed to be one of those specified in section 603 of
this act.
§ 1877. Receiver may be appointed. The court may, by an order, or
by the interlocutory or final judgment in the action, appoint a receiver of
any or all of the property of the judgment debtor; and may direct the judg
ment debtor, or any other defendant in the action, to convey or deliver to
the receiver, as justice requires, any property, real or personal, book, voucher,
or other paper, or to execute any instrument, which it deems necessary, for
perfecting or assuring the receiver's title or possession.
§ 1878. How discovery may be compelled. A discovery may be com
pelled in an action, brought as prescribed in this article, by directing the
person, required to make it, to appear before the court, or a referee appointed
by it, and to be examined under oath, concerning the matters pertaining to
the discovery. But this section does not affect the right of the plaintifff, to
cause the deposition of a defendant to be taken, as prescribed in article first
of title third of chapter ninth of this act.
§ 1879. Application of this article ; what property cannot be
reached. This article does not apply to a case, where the judgment
debtor is a corporation, created by or under the laws of the State. Nor does
it authorize the discovery or seizure of, or other interference with, any prop
erty, which is expressly exempted hy law from levy and sale, by virtue of an
execution ; or any money, thins- in action, or other property, held in trust
for a judgment debtor, where the trust has been created by, or the fund so
held in trust has proceeded from, a person other than the judgment debtor ;
or the earnings of the judgment debtor for his personal services, rendered
within sixty, days next before the commencement of the action, where it is
made to appear, by his oath or otherwise that those earnings are necessary
for the use of a family, wholly or partly supported by his labor.
Application for leave to sue sheriff's bond ; proof required.
Order granting- leave ; action thereupon.
.
Successive actions.
Indorsement upon executions
Collection of execution ; when a defense to suosequent action.
When claimants entitled to ratable distribution.
Action upon a surrogate's bond.
Action upon a county treasurer's bond.
Action upon official bonds of other officers.
Actions, etc., under the last three sections, regulated.
Receivers, etc., deemed public officers.
Demand of money ; when necessary before application.
Application may be made ex parte.

1880. Application for leave to sue sheriff's bond ; proof required.
ere a sheriff is liable for the escape of a prisoner committed to his cus
tody, or is guilty of any other actionable default or misconduct in his office,
the person injured thereby may apply to the supreme court, or to a superior
city court having jurisdiction, for leave to prosecute the sheriff's official
bond. The application must be accompanied with proof, by affidavit, of the
default or misconduct complained of, and that satisfaction of the same has
not been received ; and with a certified copy of the official bond.
§ 1881. Order granting leave ; action thereupon Upon such an appli
cation, the court must grant an order, permitting the applicant to maintain
an action upon the bond. The action must be brought, in the court which
granted the order, by the applicant as plaintifff; and it may be maintained,
as if the applicant was the obligee named in the bond, except as otherwise
expressly prescribed in this article.
§ 1882. Successive actions. The same, or any other applicant, may, in
like manner, either before or after judgment in the first action, obtain, from
the court which made the first order, but not from any other court, an order,
permitting him to maintain another action, in the same court, upon the same
bond, for another default or misconduct. Any number of such orders may
be successively made ; and neither of the actions authorized thereby is
affected by the pendency of, or the recovery of judgment in, any other,
except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this article.
§ 1883. Indorsement upon execution Where an execution is issued
upon a judgment recovered against the sheriff and any of his sureties, in
an action, brought pursuant to the last four sections, the plaintifff's attorney
must indorse thereon a direction to collect the same, in the first place, out
of the property of the sheriff, and, if sufficient property of the sheriff can
not be found, then to collect the deficiency out of the property of the surety
or sureties.
§ 1884. Collection of execution ; when a defense to subsequent
action. It is a defense by a surety, against whom an action is brought
upon a sheriff's official bond, that he, or any other surety or sureties, have
been or will be compelled, for want of sufficient property of the sheriff, to
pay, upon one or more judgments recovered against him or them, upon the
same bond, an aggregate amount, exclusive of costs, officers' fees, and
expenses, equal to the sum for which the defendant is liable, by reason of
the bond. It is a partial defense, that the difference between the aggre
gate amount, so paid, or to be paid, and the sum for which the defendant is
thus liable, is less than the amount of the plaintifff's demand.
§ 1885. When claimants entitled to ratable distribution. If the
aggregate amount of the liabilities, which might be recovered by actions
upon the sheriff's official bond, as prescribed in this article, exceeds the sum
for which the sureties are liable, the court must, upon the application of
a person who has obtained leave to prosecute the bond, made upon notice
to the plaintifff's attorney, in each action then pending upon the sheriff's
official bond, and in each uncollected judgment recovered thereupon, direct
and provide for the distribution of the money, collected out of the property
of the sureties, among the persons in favor of whom the liabilities have
accrued, in proportion to the amount which each one is entitled to recover ;
to be ascertained by a reference, or in such other manner as the court
directs. For the purposes of the motion, an order may be made by a judge,
forbidding the payment, to the plaintifff in any action of #ie sum collected
or to be collected, by virtue of a judgment therein. But this section does \
not authorize the court to compel a plaintifff to refund any money, collected i
and received by him, in good faith, before service or notice of such an
order.
§ 1886. Action upon a surrogate's bond Where a surrogate, or an
officer acting as surrogate, is guilty of any actionable default or misconduct
in his office, the person injured thereby may apply for leave to prosecute the
delinquent's official bond.
§ 1887. Action upon a county treasurer's bond Where a certified
copy of the order or judgment of a court, directing a county treasurer to pay
or deliver, to one or more persons designated therein, any money, stocks,
securities, or other investments held by him, subject to the direction of that
court, is served upon the county treasurer, if he fails to obey the direction,
the person injured thereby may apply for leave to prosecute his official bond.
Service upon a county treasurer, as required by this section, may be made
personally, or by leaving the paper, either at his office, during his absence
therefrom, with a person of suitable age and discretion, having charge of
the office, or at his residence, or his last residence within the county, with a
person of suitable age and discretion.
§ 1888. Actions upon official bonds of other officers. Where a public
officer is required to give an official bond to the people, and special provision
is not made by law, for the prosecution of the bond, by or for the benefit of
a person, who has sustained, by his default, delinquency, or misconduct, an
injury, for which the sureties upon the bond are liable, such a person may
apply for leave to prosecute the delinquent's official bond.
§ 1889. Actions, etc., under the last three sections regulated Sec
tions 1880 to 1885 of this act, both inclusive, govern an application, made
as prescribed in either of the last three sections, and each action brought
pursuant to an order made thereupon, as if the delinquent officer and his
sureties were named therein instead of tho sheriff and his sureties.
§ 1890. Receivers, etc., deemed public officers. A receiver, an assignee
of an insolvent debtor, or a trustee or other officer, appointed by a court or
a judge, is a public officer, within the meaning of the last section but one ;
but where he was appointed by or pursuant to the order of a court, or in a
special proceeding specified in title twelfth of chapter seventeenth of this
act, the application for leave to prosecute his official bond must be made to
the court by which, or pursuant to whose order, he was appointed, or in
which the judgment was rendered, as the case may be. An action, brought
as prescribed in this section, must be brought in the court to which applica
tion is made for leave to bring it.
1891. Demand of money ; when necessary before application.
ere the default, by reason of which an application for leave to prosecute
an official bond is made, as prescribed in this article, consists of the non
payment of money, and special provision is not otherwise made by law, the
applicant must prove a demand of the money from the officer, or that a
demand cannot be made with due diligence. But such proof is not neces
sary, where the applicant has recovered a judgment against the officer.
§ 1892. Application may be made ex parte. An application for leave
to prosecute an official bond, as prescribed in this article, may be made with
out notice ; but, in that case, the officer or either of his sureties, may apply,
upon notice, to vacate an order permitting the applicant to maintain an
action, upon any ground, showing that it ought not to have been granted.
Action by person specially aggrieved.
Action by common informer.
Id. ; service of summons.
Id. j when not barred by a collusive recovery.
Indorsement upon summons.
When part of a penalty may be recovered.
§ 1893. Action by person specially aggrieved Where a penalty or
forfeiture is given, by a statute, to a person aggrieved by the act or omission
of another, the person to whom it is given, may, if it is pecuniary, maintain
an action to recover the amount thereof; or, if it consists of the forfeiture
of a chattel, he may maintain an action to recover the chattel, or its value,
or other damages, as the case requires.
§ 1894. Action by common informer. Where a penalty or forfeiture is
given, by a statute, to any person who sues therefore, an action to recover it
may be maintained, by any person, in his own name ; but the action cannot
be compromised or settled, without the leave of the court in which it is
brought.
§ 1895. Id ; service of summons. The summons in an action, brought
as prescribed in the last section, can be served only by an officer, authorized
by law to collect an execution, issued out of the same court. The summons,
when issued, cannot be countermanded by the plaintifff before the service
thereof ; and immediately after it has been served, the officer who served

it, must file it, with his certificate of service, in the office of the clerk, or
deliver it, with a like certificate, to the magistrate by whom it was issued,
as the case requires.
§ 1896. Id. ; when not barred by collusive recovery. In an action
to recover a penalty or forfeiture, given by a statute, brought by any person,
other than the person aggrieved or a public officer, the plaintifff may recover,
notwithstanding the recovery of a judgment, for or against the defendant,
in an action brought therefore by another person, if he establishes that the
former judgment was recovered collusively and fraudulently.
§ 1897. Indorsement upon summons. In an action to recover a penalty
or forfeiture, given by a statute, if a copy of the complaint is not delivered
to the defendant with a copy of the summons, a general reference to the
statute must be indorsed upon the copy of the summons so delivered, in the
following form, "According to the provisions of," etc. ; adding such a descrip
tion of the statute, as win identify it with convenient certainty, and also
specifying the section, if penalties or forfeitures are given, in different
sections thereof, for different acts or omissions.
§ 1898. When part of a penalty may be recovered. Where a statute
gives a pecuniary penalty or forfeiture, not exceeding a specified sum, an
action may be maintained to recover the sum specified ; and the court, jury,
or referee, by which or by whom the issues of fact are tried, or, where judg
ment is taken by default for failure to appear or plead, the damages are
ascertained, may award to the plaintifff the whole sum, or such a part thereof,
as it or he deems proportionate to the offense.
Civil and criminal prosecutions not merged.
Action for suing, etc., in name of another. Made also a misdemeanor.
Treble and other increased damages to be recovered.
Action for causing death by negligence, etc.
Id. ; for whose benefit.
Id. ; amount of recovery.
Next of kin defined.
Action for slander of a woman.
When action for libel cannot be maintained.
The last section.qualified.

§ 1899. Civil and criminal prosecutions not merged. Where the viola
tion of a right admits of a civil and also of a criminal prosecution, the one iB
not merged in the other.
§ 1900. Action for suing, etc., in name of another. Made also amisdemeanor. If a person, vexatiously or maliciously, in the name of another
but without the latter's consent, or in the name of an unknown person, com
mences or continues, or causes to be commenced or continued, an action or
special proceeding, in a court, of record or not of record, or a special pro
ceeding before a judge or a justice of the peace ; or takes, or causes to he
taken, any proceeding, in the course of an action or special proceeding iu
such a court, or before such an officer, either before or after judgment or
other final determination ; an action, to recover damages therefore, may be
maintained against him, by the adverse party to the action or special pro
ceeding ; and a like action may be maintained by the person, if any, whose

name was thus used. He is also guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by
imprisonment, not exceeding six months.
§ 1901. Treble and other increased damages to be recovered. In an
action brought by the adverse party, as prescribed in the last section, the
flaintiff, if he recovers final judgment, is entitled to recover treble damages,
n an action, brought by the person whose name was used, as y/escribed in
the last section, the plaintifff is entitled to recover his actual damages, and
two hundred and fifty dollars in addition thereto.
§ 1902. Action for causing death by negligence, etc. The executor or
administrator of a decedent, who has left, him or her surviving, a husband,
wife, or next of kin, may maintain an action to recover damages for a wrong' \ ful act, neglect, or default, by which the decedent's death was caused, agaiust
a natural person who, or a corporation which, would have been liable to an
action in favor of the decedent, by reason thereof, if death had not ensued.
Such an action must be commenced within two years after the decedent's
death.
§ 1903. Id. ; for whose benefit. The damages recovered in an action,
brought as prescribed in the last section, are exclusively for the benefit of
the decedent's husband or wife, and next of kin ; and, when they are col(
lected, they must be distributed by the plaintifff, as if they were unbequeathed assets, left in his hands, after payment of all debts, and expenses
of administration. But the plaintifff may deduct therefrom the expenses of
the action, and his commissions upon the residue ; which must be allowed
by the surrogate, upon notice, given in such a manner and to such persons,
as the surrogate deems proper.
§ 1904 Id. ; amount of recovery. The damages awarded to the plain
tiff may be such a sum, not exceeding five thousand dollars, as the jury,
upon a writ of inquiry, or upon a trial, or, where issues of fact are tried
without a jury, the court or the referee, deems to be a fair and just compen
sation for the pecuniary injuries, resulting, from the decedent's death, to the
person or persons, for whose benefit the action is brought. When final judg
ment for the plaintifff is rendered, the clerk must add to the sum so awarded,
interest thereupon from the decedent's death, and include it in the judg
ment. The inquisition, verdict, report, or decision, may specify the day
from which interest is to be computed; if it omits so to do, the day may be
determined by the clerk, upon affidavits.
§ 1905. Next of kin defined. The term, " next of kin," as used in the
foregoing sections, has the meaning specified in section 1870 of this act.
§ 1906. Action for slander of a woman. In an action of slander,
brought by a woman, for words imputing unchastity to her, it is not neces
sary to allege or prove special damages. If the plaintifff is married, the
damages recovered are her separate property.
§ 1907. When action for libel cannot be maintained. An action, civil
or criminal, cannot be maintained against a reporter, editor, publisher, or
proprietor of a newspaper, for the publication therein of a fair and true
report of any judicial, legislative, or other public and official proceedings,
without proving actual malice in making the report.
§ 1908. The last section qualified. The last section does not apply to
a libel, contained in the heading of the report; or in any other matter,
added by any person concerned in the publication ; or in the report of any
thing said or done, at the time and place of the public and official proceed
ings, which was not a part thereof.

When transferee of claim or demand may sue. Rights of defendant, etc.
What claims or demands may be transferred.
Id. ; cause of action for usury.
Judgment ; when assignable.
Action upon judgment regulated.
Ancillary action for discovery abolished.
Action upon a penal bond.
Action by surety or trustee to recover costs, etc
Action upon lost negotiable paper.
The last section qualified.

§ 1909. When transferee of claim or demand may sue. Rights of
defendant, etc. Where a claim or demand can be transferred, the transfer
thereof passes an interest, which the transferee may enforce by an action or
special proceeding, or interpose as a defense or counterclaim, in his own
name, as the transferor might have done ; subject to any defense or counter
claim, existing against the transferor, before notice of the transfer, or against
the transferee. But this section does not apply, where the rights or liabili
ties of a party to a claim or demand, which is transferred, are regulated by
special provision of law ; nor does it vary the rights or liabilities of a party
to a negotiable instrument, which is transferred.
§ 1910. What claims or demands may be transferred Any claim or
demand can be transferred, except in one of the following cases :
1. Where it is to recover damages for a personal injury, or for a breach of
promise to marry.
2. Where it is founded upon a grant, which is made void by a statute of
the State ; or upon a claim to or interest in real property, a grant of which
by the transferor, would be void by such a statute.
3. Where a transfer thereof is expressly forbidden by a statute of the
State, or of the United States, or would contravene public policy.
§ 1911. Id. ; cause of action for usury. A cause of action to cancel, or
otherwise affect, an instrument executed, or an act done, as security for a
usurious loan or forbearance, can be thus transferred, where the instrument
or act creates a specific charge upon property, which is also transferred in
disaffirmance thereof, and not otherwise ; but, in that case, the transferee
does not succeed to the right, conferred by statute upon the borrower, to
procure relief, without paying, or offering to pay, any part of the sum or
thing loaned.
§ 1912. Judgment ; when assignable. A judgment for a sum of money,
or directing the payment of a sum of money, recovered upon any cause of
action, may be transferred ; but if it is vacated or reversed, the transfer
thereof does not transfer the cause of action, unless the latter was transfer
able before the judgment was recovered.
§ 1913. Action upon judgment regulated. Except in a case where it
is otherwise specially prescribed in this act, an action upon a judgment for
a sum of money, rendered in a court of record of the State, cannot be main
tained between the original parties to the judgment, unless, either :
1. It was rendered against the defendant by default, for want of an
appearance or pleading, and the summons was served upon him, otherwise
than personally ; or,
2. The court in which the action is brought has previously made an order,
granting leave to bring it. Notice of the application for such an order must
e given to the adverse party, or the person proposed to be made the adverse
party, personally, unless it satisfactorily appears to the court, that personal
notice cannot be given, with due diligence ; in which case, notice may be
given in such a manner as the court directs.
§ 1914. Ancillary action for discovery abolished. An action cannot
be maintained to obtain a discovery under oath, in aid of the prosecution or
defense of another action.
§ 1915. Action upon a penal bond. A bond in a penal sum, executed
within or without the State, and containing a condition to the effect, that
it is to be void, upon performance of any act, has the same effect, for the
purpose of maintaining an action or special proceeding, or two or more suc
cessive actions or special proceedings thereupon, as if it contained a covenant
to pay the sum, or to perform the act, specified in the condition thereof.
But the damages to be recovered for a breach, or successive breaches, of the
condition, cannot, in the aggregate, exceed the penal 6um, except where the
condition is for the payment of money ; in which case they cannot exceed
the penal sum, with interest thereupon, from the time when the defendant
made default in the performance of the condition.
§ 1916. Action by surety or trustee to recover costs, etc. A surety,
including a drawer or endorser, may recover, in an action against his princi
pal ; and an executor, administrator or other trustee, may, where the trust
estate is insufficient to re-imburse him ; recover in an action against the bene
ficiary whom he represents ; his reasonable costs and other expenses, incurred
necessarily and in good faith, in the prosecution or defense, by the express
or implied consent of the principal or beneficiary, of an action or special
proceeding, relating to the demand secured, or to the trust estate, as the
case requires. This section does not affect any special agreement relating
to those costs and expenses.
§ 1917. Action upon lost negotiable paper. Where it appears, upon
the trial of an action, that a negotiable promissory note or bill or exchange,
upon which the action, or a counterclaim interposed in the action, is founded,
was lost, while it belonged to the party claiming the amount due thereupon,
he may prove the contents thereof, by parol or other secondary evidence, and
may recover or set-off the amount due thereupon, as if it was produced. But
for that purpose, he must give to the adverse party a written undertaking,
in a sum fixed by the judge or the referee, not less than twice the amount
of the note or bill, with at least two sureties, approved by the judge or the
referee, to the effect that he will indemnify the adverse party, his heirs and
personal representatives, against any claim by any other person, on account
of the note or bill, and against all costs and expenses, by reason of such a
claim.
§ 1918. The last section qualified But where an action is prosecuted
or defended by the people of the State, or by a public officer in their behalf,
the people, or the public officer, may prove the contents of a lost note or bill
of exchange, by parol or other secondary evidence, and may recover or set
off the amount due thereupon, without giving any security to the adverse
party.
Actions, etc., by or against associations of seven or more persons.
Proceedings in case of death, etc.
Effect of judgment; execution thereupon.
Subsequent action against members.
This article permissive ; effect upon statute of limitations.
When objection of misnomer, etc., of parties not available.

§ 1919. Actions, etc., by or against associations of seven or more
persons. An action or special proceeding may be maintained, by the presi
dent or treasurer of an unincorporated association, consisting of seven or
more persons, to recover any property, or upon any cause of action, for or
upon which all the associates may maintain such an action or special pro
ceeding, by reason of their interest or ownership therein, either jointly or in
common. An action or special proceeding may be maintained, against the
president or treasurer of such an association, to recover any property, or
upon any cause of action, for or upon which the plaintifff may maintain such
an action or special proceeding, against all the associates, by reason of their
interest or ownership, or claim of ownership therein, either jointly or in
common, or their liability therefore, either jointly or severally. Any part
nership, or other company of persons, which has a president or treasurer, is
deemed an association, within the meaning of this section.
§ 1920. Proceedings in case of death, etc. The death or legal inca
pacity of a member of the association does not affect an action or special
proceeding, brought as prescribed in the last section. If the officer, by or
against whom it is brought, dies, is removed, resigns, or becomes otherwise
incapacitated, during the pendency thereof, the court must make an order,
directing it to be continued by or against his successor in office, or any other
officer, by or against whom it might have been originally commenced.
§ 1921. Effect of judgment ; execution thereupon. In such an action,
the officer against whom it is brought cannot be arrested ; and a judgment
against him does not authorize an execution to be issued against his prop
erty, or his person ; nor does the docketing thereof bind his real property or
chattels real. Where such a judgment is for a sum of money, an execution
issued thereupon must require the sheriff to satisfy the same, out of any
personal property belonging to the association, or owned, jointly or in
common, by all the members thereof, omitting any direction respecting real
property.
§ 1922. Subsequent action against members. Where an action has
been brought against an officer, or a counterclaim has been made, in an
action brought by an officer, as prescribed in the last three sections, another
action, for the same cause, shall not be brought against the members of the
association, or any of them, until after final judgment in the first action,
and the return, wholly or partly unsatisfied or unexecuted, of an execution
issued thereupon. After such a return, the party in whose favor the execu
tion was issued, may maintain an action, as follows :
1. Where he was the plaintifff, or a defendant recovering upon a counter
claim, he may maintain an action against the members of the association,
or, in a proper case, against any of them, as if the first action had not been
brought, or the counterclaim had not been made, as the case requires ; and
he may recover therein, as part of his damages, the costs of the first action,
or so much thereof, as the sum, collected by virtue of the execution, was
insufficient to satisfy.
2. Where he was a defendant, and the case is not within subdivision first
of this section, he may maintain an action, to recover the sum remaining
uncollected, against the persons who composed the association, when the
action against him was commenced, or the survivors of them.
But this section does not affect the right of the person, in whose favor the
judgment in the first action was rendered, to enforce a bond or undertaking,
given in the course of the proceedings therein.
§ 1923. This article permissive ; effect upon statute of limitations.
This article does not prevent an action from being brought by or against all
the members of an association, except as prescribed in the last section.
Where an action is brought against the members of the association, as pre
scribed in subdivision first of the last section, the time between the com
mencement of the action by or against the officer, and the return of the first
execution issued upon the final judgment rendered therein, is not a part of
the time limited by law, for the commencement of the second action.
§ 1924. When objection of misnomer, etc., of parties not available.
Section 1813 of this act applies to an action brought, as prescribed in the
last section but one, against the members of any association, which keeps a
book for the entry of changes in the membership of the association, or the
ownership of its property ; and to each book so kept.
Action by tax-payer against a public officer.
Actions by certain county, town, and municipa. officers.
Actions againHt such officers.
The last two sections qualified.
Designation of such officers in the summons, etc.
Successor may be substituted.
When execution against officer not to issue.

§ 1925. Action by a tax-payer against a public officer. An action to
obtain a judgment, preventing waste of, or injury to, the estate, funds, or
other property of a county, town, city, or incorporated village of the State,
may be maintained against any officer thereof, or any agent, commissioner,
or other person, acting in its behalf, by a citizen, resident therein, who is
assessed for and is liable to pay, or, within one year before the commence
ment of the action, has paid, a tax therein. This section does not affect
any right of action in favor of a county, city, town, or incorporated village,
or any public officer.
§ 1926. Actions by certain county, town, and municipal officers.
An action or special proceeding may be maintained, by the trustee or trus
tees of a school district ; the commissioner or commissioners of highways of
a town ; the overseer or overseers of the poor of a town, village, or city ; the
supervisor of a town ; the county superintendent or superintendents of the
poor ; or the supervisors of a county, upon a contract, lawfully made with
those officers or their predecessors, in their official capacity ; to enforce a
liability created, or a duty enjoined, by law, upon those officers, or the body
represented by them ; to recover a penalty or a forfeiture, given to those
officers, ot the body represented by them ; or to recover damages for an
injury to the property or rights of those officers, or the body represented by
them ; although the cause of action accrued before the commencement of
their term of office.
§ 1927. Actions against such officers. An action or special proceeding
may be maintained, against any of the officers specified in the last section,
upon any cause of action, which accrues against them, or has accrued against
their predecessors, or upon a contract made by their predecessors in their
official capacity, and within the scope of their authority.
§ 1928. The last two sections qualified. The last two sections do not
apply to a case, where it is specially prescribed by law, that an action may
be maintained, by or against the body, represented by an officer designated
in those sections ; but, in such a case, the prosecution or defense of the
action, as the case may be, must be conducted by the persons then in office,
who represent that body.
§ 1929. Designation of such officers in the summons, etc. In an
actiou or special proceeding, brought pursuant to section 1926 or section 1927
of this act, the officer by or against whom it is brought, must be described in
the summons, or other process by which it is commenced, and in the subse
quent proceedings therein, by his individual name, with the addition of his
official title. An objection, growing out of an omission to join any officer,
who ought to be joined with the others, must be taken by the answer, or, in
a special proceeding, before the close of the case, on the part of the defend
ant : otherwise it is waived.
§ 1930. Successor may be substituted. In such an action or special
proceeding, the court must, in a proper case, substitute a successor in office,
in place of a person made a party in his official capacity, who has died or
ceased to hold office; but such a successor shall not be substituted as a
defendant, without his consent, unless at least fourteen days' notice of the
application for the substitution, has been personally served upon him.
§ 1931. When execution against officer not to issue. An execution
cannot be issued upon a judgment for a sum of money, rendered against an
officer in an action or special proceeding, brought by or against him, in his
official capacity, pursuant to this article ; except where it is rendered against
the trustee or trustees of a school district, or the commissioner or commis
sioners of highways^ of a town. In either of those cases, an execution may
be issued against and be collected out of the property of the officer, and the
sum collected must be allowed to him, in the settlement of his official
accounts, except as otherwise specially prescribed by law.
t 25.]
Judgment against defendants jointly indebted, when all are not served.
Effect of such judgment.
Execution ; indorsement thereupon.
How collected.
J udgment, how docketed ; effect of docketing.
Action to charge defendants not personally summoned, etc.
Complaint in such action.
Answer.
Provisional remedies.
Judgment.
Joint debtors may compound separately. Mode and effect.
Satisfying judgment.
Righte of the debtors not released.
Action against persons engaged in transportation.
When partner not sued remains liable.
Continuance of partnership business during action for accounting, etc.

§ 1932. Judgment against defendants jointly indebted, when all are
not served. In an action, wherein the complaint demands judgment for a
eum of money against two or more defendants, alleged to be jointly indebted
upon contract, if the summons is served upon one or more, but not upon all
of the defendants, the plaintifff may proceed against the defendant or defend
ants, upon whom it is served, unless the court otherwise directs; and, if he
recovers final judgment, it may be taken against all the defendants thus
jointly indebted.
§ 1933. Effect of such judgment. Such a judgment is conclusive evi
dence of the liability of each defendant, upon whom the summons was per
sonally served, or who appeared in the action. Where it is taken against
a defendant, upon whom the summons was served by publication, or without
the State, pursuant to an order for that purpose, it has the effect, as against
that defendant, specified in section 445 of this act. As against such a
defendant, who is allowed to defend after judgment, or as against a
defendant not summoned, it is evidence only of the extent of the plaintifff's
demand, after the liability of that defendant has been established, by other
evidence.
§ 1934. Execution ; indorsement thereupon. An execution upon such
a judgment must be issued, in form, against all the defendants; but the
attorney for the judgment creditor must indorse thereupon a direction to
the sheriff, containing the name of each defendant, who was not summoned,
and restricting the enforcement of the execution, as prescribed in the next
section.
§ 1935. How collected. An execution against the person, issued upon
such a judgment, shall not be enforced against the person of a defendant,
whose name is so indorsed thereupon. An execution against property, issued
upon such a judgment, shall not be levied upon the sole property of such a
defendant ; but it may be collected out of personal property, owned by him,
jointly with the other defendants, who were summoned, or with any of them;
and out of the real and personal property of the latter, or of any of them.
S 1936. Judgment, how docketed ; effect of docketing. Where a
gment has been taken, as prescribed in section 1932 of this act, the clerk,
with whom the judgment-roll is filed, must write upon the docket, opposite
or under the name of each defendant, upon whom the summons was not
served, the words, " not summoned " and a like entry must be made by
each county clerk, with whom the judgment is afterwards docketed. The
judgment does not, by virtue of its being docketed, bind any real property,
or chattel real, owned by such a defendant. But this section does not
affect the plaintifff's right of action, to charge the judgment upon any real
property.
§ 1937. Action to charge defendants not personally summoned eta
After the recovery of a judgment against joint debtors, as prescribed in
section 1932 of this act, an action may be maintained by the judgment
creditor, against one or more of the defendants, who were not summoned in
the original action, to procure a judgment, charging his or their property
with the sum remaining unpaid upon the original judgment.
§ 1938. Complaint in such action. The complaint in such an action
must be verified; must contain an allegation that the judgment has not been
paid ; and must state the sum, remaining unpaid thereupon, at the time of
the verification.
§ 1939. Answer. The defendant's answer is restricted to defenses or
counterclaims, which he might have made in the original action, if the
summons therein had been served upon him, when it was first served upon a
defendant jointly indebted with him; objections to the judgment; and
defenses or counterclaims, which have arisen since it was rendered.
§ 1940. Provisional remedies. For the purpose of obtaining an order
of arrest, an injunction order, or a warrant of attachment, the action is
regarded as being founded upon the contract, upon which the original judg
ment was recovered.
§ 1941. Judgment. Where the judgment is in favor of the plaintifff, it
must determine the sum remaining unpaid upon the original judgment ; and
it may be docketed, and an execution may be issued thereupon, as if it was
a judgment for the sum so remaining unpaid, and the costs, if any. Costs
must be awarded, as if the action was brought upon the original contract,
and the sum so remaining unpaid had been recovered therein.
8 1942- Joint debtors may compound separately. Mode and effect
A joint debtor may make a separate composition with his creditor, as pre
scribed in this section. Such a composition discharges the debtor making
it ; and him only. The creditor must execute to the compounding debtor a
release of the indebtedness, or other instrument exonerating him therefrom.
A member of a partnership cannot thus compound for a partnership debt,
until the partnership has been dissolved by consent or otherwise. In that
case the instrument must release or exonerate him, from all liability incurred
by reason of his connection with the partnership. An instrument, specified
in this section, does not impair the creditor's right of action against any
other joint debtor, or his right to take any proceeding against the latter ;
unless an intent to release or exonerate him appears affirmatively upon the
face thereof.
§ 1943. Satisfying judgment. An instrument specified in the last sec
tion, is deemed a satisfaction-piece, for the purpose of discharging, as pre
scribed in section 1260 of this act, the docket of a judgment, recovered upon
an indebtedness released or discharged thereby, as far as the judgment
affects the compounding debtor. Where the docket of a judgment is dis
charged thereupon, a special entry must be made upon the docket, to the
effect, that the judgment is satified, as to the compounding debtor only.

§ 1944. Rights of the debtors not released. Where a joint debtor has
thus compounded, a joint debtor, who has not compounded, may make any
defense or counterclaim, or have any other relief, as against the creditor, to
which he would have been entitled, if the composition had not been made.
He may require the compounding debtor to contribute his ratable proportion
of the joint debt, or of the partnership debts, as the case may be, as if the
latter had not been discharged.
§ 1945. Action against persons engaged in transportation. In an
action brought against one or more persons, engaged, as a joint-stock asso
ciation, partnership, or otherwise, in the periodical transportation of passen
gers or property, an objection, to any of the proceedings, cannot be taken
by a person properly made a defendant, on the ground that the plaintifff
has joined with him, as a defendant, a person not jointly engaged with
him in that business, or on the ground that the plaintifff has failed so to join
with him a person so jointly engaged, unless the persons so engaged have,
at least thirty days before the commencement of the action, filed in the
clerk's office of each county, in which they transport passengers or property,
a statement showing the names of all of them. A statement so filed, is con
clusive, for the purposes specified in this section, as against the persons filing
it, until thirty days after filing, in like manner, a new statement showing a
change of interest.
§ 1946. When partner not sued remains liable. Where, for any cause,
one or more partners have not been joined as defendants in an action upon a
partnership liability, and final judgment has been taken against the persons
made defendants therein, the plaintifff, if the judgment remains unsatisfied,
may maintain a separate action upon the same demand, against each omitted
partner, setting forth in the complaint the facts specified in this section, as
well as the facts constituting his cause of action upon the demand.
§ 1947. Continuance of partnership business, during action for
accounting, etc. In an action brought to dissolve a partnership, or for an
accounting between partners, or affecting the continued prosecution of the
business, the court may, in its discretion, by order, authorize the partnership
business to be continued, during the pendency of the action by one or more
of the partners, upon their executing and filing with the clerk an undertak
ing, in such a sum and with such sureties as the order prescribes, to the
efiect that they will obey all orders of the court, in the action, and perform
all things which the judgment therein requires them to perform. The court
may impose such other conditions, as it deems proper, and may in its
discretion at any time thereafter require a new undertaking to be given.
The court may also ascertain the value of the partnership property, and of
the interest of the respective partners by a reference or otherwise, and may
direct an accounting between any of the partners; and the judgment may
make such provision for the payment to the retiring partners, for their inter
est, and with respect to the rights of creditors, the title to the partnership
property, and otherwise, as justice requires, with or without the appointment
of a receiver, or a sale of the partnership property.
Action against the usurper of an office or franchise.
Action to vacate letters patent.
Action for a fine, penalty, or forfeiture, or upon a forfeited recognizance.
Certain actions, founded upon the spoliation, or other misappropriation of
public property.
5. Action to recover property escheated, or forfeited for treason.
6. Miscellaneous provisions, relating to actions, etc., in behalf of the people.
Attorney-General may maintain action.
Proceedings when complaint names rightful incumbent.
Action triable by jury.
Assumption of office by person entitled.
Proceedings to obtain books and papers.
Damages; how recovered.
One action against several persons.
When injimction may be granted.
Final judgment in action for usurping office, etc.

§ 1948. Attorney-General may maintain action. The Attorney-General
may maintain an action, upon his own information, or upon the complaint of
a private person, in either of the following cases :
1. Against a person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exer
cises, within the State, a franchise, or a public office, civil or military, or an
office in a domestic corporation.
2. Against a public officer, civil or military, who has done or suffered an
act which by law works a forfeiture of his office.
3. Against one or more persons who act as a corporation, within the State,
without being duly incorporated ; or exercise, within the State, any corporate
rights, privileges, or franchises, not granted to them by the law of the State.
§ 1949. Proceedings when complaint names rightful incumbent. In
an action, brought as prescribed in the last section, for usurping, intruding
into, unlawfully holding, or exercising an office, the Attorney-General, be
sides stating the cause of action in the complaint, may, in his discretion, set

forth therein the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, and the
facts showing his right thereto ; and thereupon, and upon proof, by affidavit,
that the defendant, by means of his usurpation or intrusion, lias received any
fees or emoluments belonging to the office, an order to arrest the defendant
may be granted by the court, cr a judge. The provisions of title first of
chapter seventh of this act apply to such an order, and the proceedings there
upon and subsequent thereto, except where special provision is otherwise
made in this title. For that purpose, the order is deemed to have been made
as prescribed in section 549 of this act. Judgment may be rendered upon
the right of the defendant, and of the party so alleged to be entitled ; or
only upon the right of the defendant, as justice requires.
§ 1950. Action triable by jury. An action, brought as prescribed in this
article, is triable, of course and of right, by a jury, in like manner as if it
was an action specified in section 968 of this act, and without procuring an
order, as prescribed in section 970 of this act.
§ 1951. Assumption of office by person entitled. Where final judg
ment is rendered upon the right and in favor of the person so alleged to be
entitled, he may, after taking the oath of office, and giving an official bond,
as prescribed by law, take upon himself the execution of the office. He
must, immediately thereafter, demand of the defendant in the action,
delivery of all the books and papers in the custody, or under the control, of
the defendant, belonging to the office from which the defendant has been so
excluded.
§ 1952. Proceedings to obtain books and papers. If the defendant
refuses or neglects to deliver any of the books and papers, demanded as pre
scribed in the last section, he is guilty of a misdemeanor ; and the same
proceedings must be taken, to compel the delivery thereof, as are now or
shall hereafter be prescribed by law, where a person who has held an office,
refuses or neglects to deliver the official books or papers to his successor.
§ 1953. Damages ; how recovered Where final judgment has been
rendered, upon the right and in favor of the person so alleged to be enti
tled, he may recover, in the same action, against the defendant, the dam
ages which he has sustained, in consequence of the defendant's usurpation,
intrusion into, unlawful holding, or exercise of the office.
§ 1954. One action against several persons. Where two or more per
sons claim to be entitled to the same office or franchise, the AttorneyGeneral may bring the action against all, to determine their respective
rights thereto.
§ 1955. When injunction may be granted In an action, brought as
prescribed in subdivision third of section 1948 of this act, the final judg
ment, in favor of the plaintifff, must perpetually restrain the defendant or
defendants, from the commission or continuance of the act or acts com
plained of. A temporary injunction to restrain tho commission or continu
ance thereof, may be granted, upon proof, by affidavit, that the defendant
or defendants enjoined have acted as a corporation, within the State, without
being duly incorporated, or have usurped, exercised, or claimed, within the
State, a franchise, liberty, or corporate right, not granted to them by law.
The provisions of title second of chapter seventh of this act apply to such
a temporary injunction, and the proceedings thereupon, except where special
provision is otherwise made in this title. For that purpose, the injunction
order is deemed to have been granted as prescribed in section 603 of this
act.
§ 1956. Final judgment in action for usurping office, etc. In any
other action, brought as prescribed in this article, where a defendant is
adjudged to be guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully hold
ing or exercising, an office, frauchise, or privilege, final judgment must be
rendered, ousting and excluding him therefrom, and in favor of the people
or the relator, as the case requires, for the costs of the action. As a part
of the final judgment, the court may in its discretion, also award, that the
defendant, or, where there are two or more defendants, that one or more of
them, pay to the people a fine, not exceeding two thousand dollars. The
judgment for the fine may be docketed, and execution may be issued there
upon, in favor of the people, as if it had been rendered in an action to
recover the fine. The fine, when collected, must be paid into the treasury
of the State.
When Attorney-General may maintain action.
Action triable by jury.
Copy of judgment-roll to be filed, etc.
Transcript to be Bent to county clerk, etc.

§ 1957. When Attomey-G-eneral may maintain action The Attor
ney-General may maintain an action to vacate or annul letters-patent,
granted by the people of the State, in either of the following cases :
1. Where they were obtained by means of a fraudulent suggestion, or con
cealment of a material fact, made by, or with the knowledge or consent of,
the person to whom they were issued.
2. Where they were issued in ignorance of a material fact, or through
mistake.
3. Where the patentee, or those claiming under him, have done or omitted
an act, in violation of the terms and conditions upon which the letters-patent
were granted, or have by any other means, forfeited the interest acquired
under the same.
Whenever the Attorney-General has good reason to believe, that any act
or omission, specified in this section, can be proved, and that the person to
be made defendant has no sufficient legal defense, he must commence such
an action.
§ 1958. Action triable by jury, An action, brought as prescribed in
this article, is triable, of course and of right, by a jury, as if it was an action
specified in section 968 of this act, and without procuring an order, as pre
scribed in section 970 of this act.
§ 1959. Copy of judgment-roll to be filed, etc. Where final judgment,
vacating or annulling letters-patent, is rendered in an action, brought as
prescribed in the last section, the Attorney-General must cause a copy of the
judgment-roll to be forthwith filed in the office of the Secretary of State ;
who must make an entry, in the records of the commissioners of the land
office, stating the substance and effect of the judgment, and the time when
the judgment-roll was filed. The real property, granted by those letterspatent, may thereafter be disposed of by the commissioners of the land office,
as if the letters-patent had not been issued.
§ 1960. Transcript to be sent to county clerk, etc. Immediately after
making the entry prescribed in the last section, the Secretary of State must

transmit a certified transcript thereof to the clerk, or the register, as the
case requires, of each county, in which the real property affected by the
judgment is situated. The clerk or register must file it ; and, if the letterspatent are recorded in his office, he must note the contents of the transcript
in the margin of the record.
When action cannot be maintained.
Action for forfeiture, etc.
Money recovered ; how disposed of.
Certain proceedings in the action regulated.
Recognizance ; how forfeited.
Action on recognizance.
Money received by district-attorney ; how disposed of.
District-attorney to render account.

§ 1961. When action cannot be maintained. Whenever, by the deci
sion of the general term of the supreme court, or of a superior city court, a
construction is given to a statute, an act done, in good faith, and in con
formity to that construction, after the decision was made, and before a
reversal thereof by the court of appeals, is so far valid, that the party doing
it is not liable to any penalty or forfeiture, for an act that was adjudged
lawful by the decision of the court below. But this section does not control
or affect the decision of the court of appeals, upon an appeal actually taken
before the reversal.
§ 1962. Action for forfeiture, etc. Where real or personal property has
been forfeited, or a penalty incurred, to the people of the State, or to an
officer, for their use, pursuant to a provision of law, the Attorney-General, or
the district-attorney of the county in which the action is triable, must bring
an action to recover the property or penalty, in a court having jurisdiction
thereof. Where the supreme court and a justice's court have concurrent
jurisdiction of the action, it may be brought in either, at the election of the
Attorney-General or district-attorney. A recovery in such an action bars a
recovery, in any other action, brought for the same cause.
§ 1963. Money recovered ; how disposed of Money recovered in
such an action, which is not otherwise specially granted or appropriated by
law, must, when collected, be paid into the treasury of the State.
§ 1964. Certain proceedings in the action regulated. Sections 1897
and 1898 of this act apply to an action, brought as prescribed in the last two
sections.
§ 1965. Recognizance, how forfeited. Where the condition of a recog
nizance is broken, an order of the court, directing the prosecution of the
recognizance, is a sufficient forfeiture thereof.
§ 1966. Action on recognizance. Where a recognizance to the people is
forfeited, the district-attorney of the county in which it was taken, must,
unless the court otherwise directs, forthwith bringing an action to recover the
penalty thereof. It is not necessary, in such an action, to allege or prove
any damages, by reason of the breach of the condition ; but where the people
are entitled to judgment therein, they must have judgment absolute, for the
penalty of the recognizance.
§ 1967. Money received by district-attorney; how disposed of
Within thirty days after a district-attorney receives or collects money upon
a recognizance, or for a penalty or forfeiture, belonging to the county, he
must pay it to the county treasurer of his county, deducting only his neces
sary disbursements ; except that, where he does not receive, as his compen
sation, a salary fixed pursuant to law, the county court may, by an order
«ntered in its minutes, allow him to retain also a sum, specified in the order,
for his reasonable costs and expenses, and a reasonable counsel fee.
§ 1968. District-attorney to render account. Each district-attorney
must render to the first term of the county court of his county, held in each
calendar year, a written account, verified by his affidavit, of all actions
brought by him upon recognizances, or for penalties or forfeitures belonging
to the county, or to the State ; of all his proceedings therein ; of all judg
ments recovered by him therein ; and of all money, collected by him from
any person, belonging to the county or to the State. This section applies
to a district-attorney who has gone out of office, during the preceding
calendar year.
§ 1969. Action in court of the State for public funds illegally
obtained converted etc. Where any money, funds, credits, or other
property, held or owned by the State, or held or owned, officially or other
wise, for or in behalf of a governmental or other public interest, by a domestic
municipal, or other public corporation, or by a board, officer, custodian,
agency, or agent of the State, or of a city, county, town, village, or other
division, subdivision, department, or portion of the State, has heretofore
been, or is hereafter, without right obtained, received, converted, or disposed
of, an action to recover the same, or to recover damages, or other compensa
tion, for so obtaining, receiving, paying, converting, or disposing of the
same, or both, may be maintained by the people of the State, in any court
of the State having jurisdiction thereof, although a right of action, for the
same cause, exists oy law in some other public authority, and whether an
action therefore, in favor of the latter, is or is not pending, when the action
in favor of the people is commenced.
§ 1970. Stay of other domestic actions; parties thereto to be
brought in. Where an action is commenced by the people, for a cause
specified in the last section, the court in which it is brought, may, upon
the application of any party thereto, grant an order staying proceedings in
any other action, brought, for the same cause, in the same or any other court
of the State, by a public authority, other than the people ; and, if necessary
or proper, it may vacate any order or interlocutory judgment, made or rendered in such an action ; and it may, by the same order, or by a subsequent
order, granted upon the application of any party to either action, direct that
any party to the action so stayed, be brought in, as a party to the action
commenced by the people.
§ 1971. Actions, etc., in foreign courts. The people of the State may
commence and maintain, in thsir own name, or otherwise, as is allowable,
one or more actions, suits or other judicial proceedings, in any court, or
before any tribunal, of the United States, or of any other State, or of any
territory of the United States, or of any foreign country, for any cause speci
fied in the last section but one.
§ 1972. Money damages, etc., vest in people on commencement of
action. Upon the commencement, by the people of the State, of any action,
suit, or other judicial proceeding, as prescribed in this article, the entire
cause of action, including the title to the money, funds, credits or other
property, with respect to which the suit or action is brought, and to the
damages or other compensation, recoverable for the obtaining, receipt, pay
ment, conversion, or disposition thereof, if not previously so vested, is trans
ferred to, and becomes absolutely vested in, the people of the State.
§ 1973. Limitation of action. The people of the State will not sue for a
cause of action, specified in this article, unless it accrued within ten years
before the action is commenced.
§ 1974. Ultimate disposition of proceeds of action, in court of the
State. Any court of the State, in which an action is brought by the people,
as prescribed in this article, may, by the final judgment therein, or by a
subsequent order, direct that any money, funds, damages, credits or other
property, recovered by, or awarded to, the plaintifff therein, which, if that
action had not been brought, would not have vested in the people, be dis
posed of, as justice requires, in such a manner as to re-instate the lawful
custody thereof, or to apply the same, or the proceeds thereof, to the objects
and purposes for which they were authorized to be raised or procured; after
paying into the State treasury, out of the proceeds of the recovery, all
expenses incurred by the people in the action.
§ 1975. Id ; upon petition of corporation, etc., aggrieved Any cor
poration, board, officer, custodian, agency, or agent, may, in behalf of any
city, county, town, village, or other division, subdivision, department, or por
tion of the State, which was not a party to an action, brought as prescribed
in this article, and which claims to be entitled to the custody or disposition
of any of the money, funds, damages, credits, or other property, recovered
by, or awarded to the plaintifff, by the fiual judgment in the action, or any
of the proceeds thereof, and not disposed of as prescribed in the last section,
present, at any time after the actual collection of the money, and its pay
ment into the State treasury, or the actual receipt of the property by the
people, to the supreme court, at a special term thereof held in the county of
Albany, a verified petition, setting forth the facts, and praying for the relief
to which he or it is entitled. Notice of the application and a copy of the
petition must be served upon the Attorney-General. Upon the hearing the
court may make such a final order, as justice requires, for the disposition of
the money of other property, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 1976. Attorney-General must bring action. The Attorney-General
must commence an action, suit, or other judicial proceeding, as prescribed in
this article^ whenever he deems it for the interest of the people of the State,
so to do ; or whenever he is so directed, in writing, by the governor.

§ 1977. Attorney-General to bring ejectment for real property, es
cheated or forfeited. Whenever the Attorney-General has good reason to
believe, that the title to, or right of possession of, any real property, has
vested in the people of the State, by escheat, or by conviction or outlawry
for treason, he must commence an action of ejectment, to recover the prop
erty.
§ 1978. Notice to be published before trial or judgment. The Attor
ney-General must cause a notice, specifying the names of the parties, and
the object of the action, and containing a brief description of the property
affected thereby, to be published in the newspaper printed at Albany, in
which legal notices are required to be published, in a newspaper published
in the city of New York, and in a newspaper published in each county in
which any part of the property is situated, at least once in each week, for
twelve successive weeks, before an issue of fact, joined in the action, is
brought to trial ; or, where judgment is rendered, therein in favor of the
plaintifff, otherwise than upon the trial of an issue of fact, before final judg
ment is rendered.
§ 1979. When unknown claimants may be made defendants. If the
property is not occupied, and no person is known to the Attorney-General, as
claiming title thereto, the defendant or defendants may be designated as
" unknown claimants," without any other description. In all other respects,
section 451 of this act applies to an action, in which the defendant or defend
ants are thus designated.
§ 1980. Effect of judgment against unknown claimants. Where, in
an action of ejectment, to recover property alleged to be escheated, brought
as prescribed in the last section, final judgment in favor of the people is ren
dered against unknown claimants, and the real property recovered thereby
is afterwards sold and conveyed, under the direction of the commissioners
of the land office, the judgment is conclusive upon the title of that property,
as against all persons, except those who commence an action of ejectment
for the recovery thereof, or of a part thereof, within five years after the final
judgment was rendered in the action in favor of the people, and the judg
ment-roll was filed thereupon. But section 375 of this act applies to such
an action.
§ 1981. Attomey-G-eneral to report recoveries to commissioners of
land office. The Attorney-General must, from time to time, make a report
to the commissioners of the land office, of all real property recovered by the
people, in an action brought pursuant to this article.
8 1982. Action to recover personal property forfeited for treason.
Where personal property is forfeited to the people, upon a conviction or out
lawry for treason, the Attorney-General must bring, and may maintain, an
action to recover the same, or the value thereof, or such other action, founded
upon the forfeiture, as might be maintained by a private person, who had
acquired title to the property.
Scire facias, quo warranto, etc., abolished.
Actions to be brought in the mime of the people.
Judgment for costs may be taken against the people.
Relator ; when to be joined as plaintifff; compensation of Attorney-General.
Costs ; how collected against corporation and usurpers of franchise.
Joinder of causes of action against same person.
Consolidation of actions against several defendants.
When people, municipal corporation, etc., not required to give security.
§ 1983. Scire facias, quo warranto, etc., abolished. The writ of scire
facias, the writ of quo warranto, and proceedings by information in the
nature of quo warranto, have been abolished. The relief formerly obtained
by means of either of those writs, may be obtained by action, where an
appropriate action therefore is prescribed in this act.
§ 1984. Actions to be brought in the name of the people. An action,
brought as prescribed in this title, except an action to recover a penalty or
forfeiture, expressly given by law to a particular officer, must be brought in
the name of the people of the State ; and the proceedings therein are the
same, as in an action by a private person, except as otherwise specially pre
scribed in this title.
§ 1985. Judgment for costs may be taken against the people. Where
judgment is rendered, or a final order is made, against the people, in a civil
action brought, or special proceeding instituted, in their name, by a public
officer, pursuant to a provision of law, it must be to the same effect, and in
the same form, as against a private individual, who brings a like action, or
institutes a like special proceeding, except as otherwise specially prescribed
by law. But an execution shall not be issued against the people.
§ 1986. Relator; when to be joined as plaintifff; compensation of
Attorney-General When an action is brought by the Attorney-General,
as prescribed in this title, on the relation or information of a person, having
an interest in the question, the complaint must allege, and the title of the
action must show, that the action is brought upon the relation of that person.
In such a case, the Attorney-General must, as a condition of bringing the
action, require the relator to give satisfactory security to indemnify the
people, against the costs and expenses thereof. Where security is so given,
the Attorney-General is entitled to compensation for his services, to be paid
by the relator, in like manner as the attorney and counsel for a private
person.
§ 1987. Costs ; how collected, against corporation and usurpers of
franchise. Where final judgment in an action, brought as prescribed in
this title, is rendered against a corporation, or persons claiming to be a cor
poration, the court may direct the costs to be collected by execution against
any of the persons claiming to be a corporation ; or by warrant of attach
ment, or other process, against the person of any director or other officer of
the corporation.
§ 1988. Joinder of causes of action against same person. Where
two or more causes of action exist, in favor of the people, against the same
person, for money due upon, or damages for the non-performance of, one or
more contracts of the same nature, the Attorney-General must join all those
causes in one action.
§ 1989. Consolidation of actions against several defendants. Where
two or more actions, brought in behalf of the people, upon the same mort
gage or other contract, are pending against separate defendants, claiming
or defending under the same title, the Attorney-General must, upon the
request of the defendants, cause them to be consolidated into one action ;
and only one bill of costs can be taxed against the defendants.
§ 1990. When people, municipal corporation, etc., not required to
give security. Each provision of this act, requiring a party to give
security, for the purpose of procuring an order of arrest, an injunction
order, or a warrant of attachment, or as a condition of obtaining any other
relief, or taking any proceeding; or allowing the court, or a judge, to
require such security to be given ; is to be construed, as excluding an action
brought by the people of the State, or by a domestic municipal corporation,
or by a public officer, in behalf of the people, or of such a corporation ; except
where the security, to be given in such an action, is specially regulated by
the provision in question.
Provisions applicable to Two or more State Writs.
State writs enumerated.
To be under seal of proper court.
State writ at the instance of the people.
Relator, when joined with people ; parties how styled.
Parties may appear by attorney.
Allowance to be indorsed and signed.
Final order ; certain proceedings same as in actions.
When writ returnable.
How served
Habeas corpus, how served ; fees and undertaking, when required.
Fees to persons not officers.
Last two sections qualified.
Mode of serving writ, when person conceals himself, etc.
Person served to obey habeas corpus.
Id. ; as to certiorari.
Time of returning habeas corpus.
Punishment for non-payment of costs.
397
§ 1991. State writs enumerated. The writ of^hab^ascpr^us to bring up
a person to testify, or to answer ; the writ of habeas corpus, and the writ
of certiorari, to inquire into the cause of detention ; the writ of mandamus j
the writ of prohibition ; the writ of assessment of damages, which is sub
stituted for the writ heretofore known as the writ of ad quod damnum ;
and the writ of certiorari to review the determination of an inferior tri
bunal, which may be called the writ of review, shall hereafter be styled,
collectively, State writs.
§ 1992. To be under seal of court. A State writ must be issued under
the 6eal of the court, by which it is awarded. Where it is allowed by a
judge out of court, and is returnable before a court of record, it must be
issued under the seal of the court before which it is returnable. Where it
is returnable before a judge out of court, or before a body or tribunal, other
than a court of record, it must be issued under the seal of the supreme
court. Where the seal of the supreme court is to be used, as prescribed in
this section, it may be the seal of the county wherein the writ is awarded,
or wherein it is returnable.
§ 1993. State writ at the instance of the people. Where a State writ
is required, in an action or special proceeding, civil or criminal, to which
the people are a party, or in which they are interested, it may be awarded
upon the application of the Attorney-General, or of the district attorney hav
ing charge of the action or special proceeding ; and the indorsement of the
allowance thereof must state, that it was issued upon such application.
§ 1994. Relator when joined with people ; parties, how styled.
A State writ must be issued in behalf of the people of the State ; but
where it is awarded upon the application of a private person, it must show
that it was issued upon the relation of that person. The officer or other
person, against whom the writ is issued, shall be styled the defendant
therein.
§ 1995. Parties may appear by attorney. The parties to a special pro
ceeding instituted by the State writ, may appear by attorney, with like effect
as in an action brought in the supreme court ; but a return to such a writ
must be made under the hand of the defendant, except in a case where it, is
otherwise specially prescribed by law, or where the court or judge, for good
cause shown by affidavit, otherwise directs. Where the Attorney-General or
the district-attorney does not appear for the people, the attorney for the
relator is deemed also the attorney for the people.
§ 1996. Allowance to be indorsed and signed. The presiding judge of
a court, by which a State writ is awarded, or the judge who allows such a
writ out of court, as the case may be, must sign an allowance thereof indorsed
thereupon, stating the date of the allowance.
§ 1997. Final order ; certain proceedings same as in actions. The
final determination of the rights of the parties to a special proceeding insti
tuted by State writ, is styled a final order. The provisions of this act,
relating to amendments, motions, and intermediate orders, in an action, are
applicable to similar acts in such a special proceeding; except where special
provision is otherwise made therein, or where the proceeding is repugnant
to the object of the State writ, or the mode of procedure thereunder.
§ 1998. When writ returnable. Except where special provision is other
wise made in this act, a State writ may be made returnable forthwith, or on
a future day certain, as the case requires.
§ 1999. How served. Except where special provision is otherwise made
in this act, a State writ must be personally served, in like manner as a sum
mons, issued out of the supreme court ; and each provision of this act, relat
ing to the personal service of such a summons upon a defendant, applies to
the service of a State writ.
§ 2000. Habeas corpus, how served ; fees and undertakings when
required. A writ of habeas corpus can be served only by an elector of the
State. Where the prisoner is in custody of a sheriff, coroner, constable, or
marshal, the service is not complete, unless the person serving' the writ ten
ders to the officer, the fees allowed by law for bringing up the prisoner, and
delivers to him an undertaking, with at least one surety, in a sum specified
therein, to the effect, that the surety will pay the charges of carrying back
the prisoner, if he shall be remanded ; and that the prisoner will not escape
by the way, either in going to, remaining at, or returning from the place to
which he is to be taken. The sum so specified must be, at least, twice the
sum for which the prisoner is detained, if he is detained for a specific sum
of money ; if not, it must be one thousand dollars.
§ 2001. Fees to persons not officers. A court or a judge, allowing a
writ of habeas corpus, directed to any person other than a sheriff, coroner,
constable or marshal, may, in its or his discretion, require the applicant, in
order to render the service thereof complete, to pay the charges of bringing
up the prisoner. In that case, the amount of the charges, not to exceed the
fees allowed by law to a sheriff for a similar service, must be specified in the
certificate allowing the writ.
§ 2002. Last two sections qualified. The last two sections are not
applicable to a case, where the writ is allowed upon the application of the
Attorney-General, or a district-attorney.
§ 2003. Mode of serving writ, when person conceals himself, etcA writ of habeas corpus' or of certiorari, issued as prescribed in article second
or article third of this title, may be served by delivering it to the person to
whom it is directed. If he cannot be found, with due diligence, it may be
served by leaving it, at the jail or other place in which the prisoner is con
fined, with any under officer, or other person of proper age, having charge
for the time, of the prisoner, and paying or tendering to him the fees or
whom the writ
ought to be served, keeps himself concealed, or refuses admittance to the
person attempting to serve it, it may be served by affixing it in a conspicu
ous place, on the outside, either of his dwelling-house, or of the place where
the prisoner is confined. In that case, the service is complete, without ten
dering the fees or charges for bringing up the prisoner.
§ 2004. Person served to obey habeas corpus. A sheriff, coroner, con
stable, or marshal, upon whom complete service of a writ of habeas corpus is
made, as prescribed in this article, must obey and make return to the writ,
according to the exigency thereof, whether it is directed to him or not.
Any other person, upon whom such a writ is served, having the custody of
the individual for whose benefit it was issued, must obey and execute it,
according to the command thereof, without requiring any bond, or the pay
ment of any charges, except such as are specified in the certificate allowing
the writ.
§ 2005. Id ; as to certiorari. A person, upon whom a writ of certiorari,
issued as prescribed in this title, is served, must, in like manner, upon pay
ment or tender of the fees allowed by law for making a return to the writ,
and for copying the warrant, or other process or proceeding, to be annexed
thereto, obey and return the writ, according to the exigency thereof.
§ 2006. Time of returning habeas corpus. Where a writ of habeas
corpus is returnable on a day certain, the return must be made at the time
and place specified therein. "Where such a writ is returnable forthwith, at a
place within twenty miles of the place of service, the return must be made
and the prisoner must be produced within twenty-four hours after service ;
and the like time must be allowed for each additional twenty miles.
§ 2007. Punishment for non-payment of costs. For non-payment,
upon demand, of the costs awarded by a final order, made in a special pro
ceeding instituted by State writ, except where a peremptory writ of manda
mus is awarded, after the issuing of an alternative mandamus, the person
required to pay the same may be punished for a contempt of the court
awarding them, or of which the judge awarding them is a member, as if the
final order was a final judgment of the court.
Habeas corpus to testify ; when allowed by court or judge.
Id. ; when allowed by judge.
Id. ; in suit before justice of the peace; etc.
The last three sections qualified.
Application ; how made.
Certain prisoners to be remanded.
Officer to obey and return writ.

§ 2008. Habeas corpus to testify; when allowed by court or judge.
X A court of record, other than a justice's court of a city, or a judge of such a
court, or a justice of the supreme court, has power, upon the application of a
party to an action or special proceeding, civil or criminal, pending therein,
to issue a writ of habeas corpus, for the purpose of bringing before the court
a prisoner, detained in a jail or prison within the State, to testify as a wit
ness in the action or special proceeding, in behalf of the applicant.
§ 2009. Id ; when allowed by judge. Such a writ may also be issued
by a justice of the supreme court, upon the application of a party to a special
proceeding, civil or criminal, pending before any officer or body, authorized
to examine a witness therein. In a case specified in this section, the writ
may also be issued by a judge of a superior city court, a county judge, or a
special county judge, residing within the county where the officer resides,
before whom, or the court or other body sits, in or before which the special
proceeding is pending.
§ 2010. Id ; in suit before justice of the peace, etc. Such a writ may
also be issued by a justice of the supreme court, upon the application of a
party to an action pending before a justice of the peace, or in a justices'
court of a city, or a district court of the city of New York, to bring before
the justice or court, to be examined as a v:iness, a prisoner confined in the
jail of the county where the action is to bo tried, or an adjoining county. In
a case specified in this section, the writ may also be issued by a judge of a
superior city court, a county judge, or a special county judge, residing within
the county where the justice resides, or the court is located, or the prisoner
is confined, as the case may be.
§ 2011. The last three sections qualified. [Amended by Ch. 301 op
1880.] A writ shall not be issued, by virtue of either of the last three
sections, to bring up a prisoner sentenced to death. Nor shall it be issued
to bring up a prisoner confined under any other sentence for a felony ;
except where the application is made, in behalf of the people, to bring him
up as a witness on the trial of an indictment, and then only by and in the
discretion of a justice of the supreme court, or a judge of a superior city
court, upon such notice to the district attorney of the county wherein the
prisoner was convicted, and upon such terms and conditions, and under such
regulations, as the judge prescribes.
§ 2012. Application, how made. An application for a writ, made as
prescribed in either of the foregoing sections of this article, must be verified
by affidavit, and must state :
1. The title and nature of the action or special proceeding, in regard to
which the testimony of the prisoner is desired ; and the court, or body, in or
before which, or the officer before whom, it is pending.
2. That the testimony of the prisoner is material and necessary to the
applicant, on the trial of the action, or the hearing of the special proceeding,
as he is advised by counsel and verily believes.
3. The place of confinement of the prisoner.
4. Whether the prisoner is or is not confined under a sentence for a
felony.
But where the Attorney-General or district attorney makes the application,
he need not swear to the advice of counsel.
§ 2013. Certain prisoners to be remanded The return to a writ,
issued as prescribed in this article, must state for what cause the prisoner is
held : and if it appears therefrom, that he is held by virtue of a mandate in
a civil action or special proceeding, or by virtue of a commitment upon a
criminal charge, he must, after having testified, be remanded, and again
committed to the prison, from which he was taken.
§ 2014. Officer to obey and return writ. Any officer to whom a writ,
issued as prescribed in this article, is delivered, must obey the same, accord
ing to the exigency thereof, and make a return thereto accordingly. If he
refuses or neglects so to do, he forfeits, to the people, if the writ was issued
upon the application of the Attorney-General or a district-attorney, or, in
any other case, to the party on whose application the writ was issued, the
sum of five hundred dollars. But where the prisoner is confined under a
sentence of death, a return to that effect is a sufficient obedience to the writ,
without producing him.
§ 2015. Who entitled to prosecute the ■writs. A person imprisoned
or restrained in his liberty, within the State, for any cause, or upon any
pretense, is entitled, except in one of the cases specified in the next section,
to a writ of habeas corpus, or a writ of certiorari, as prescribed in this article,
for the purpose of inquiring into the cause of the imprisonment or restraint,
and, in a case prescribed by law, of delivering him therefrom. A writ of
habeas corpus may be issued and served under this section, on the first day
of the week, commonly called Sunday ; but it cannot be made returnable on
that day.
§ 2016. When neither writ shall be allowed. A person is not entitled
to either of the writs specified in the last section, in either of the following
cases:
1. Where he has been committed, or is detained, by virtue of a mandate,
issued by a court or a judge of the United States, in a case where such
courts or judges have exclusive jurisdiction under the laws of the United
States, or have acquired exclusive jurisdiction by the commencement of legal
proceedings in such a court.
2. Where he has been committed, or is detained, by virtue of the final
judgment or decree, of a competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdiction ;
or the final order of such a tribunal, made in a special proceeding, insti
tuted for any cause, except to punish him for a contempt ; or by virtue
of an execution or other process, issued upon such a judgment, decree, or
final order.
§ 2017. Application ; how and to whom made. Application for the
writ must be made, by a written petition, signed, either by the person for
whose relief it is intended, or by some person in his behalf, to either of the
following courts or officers :
1. The supreme court, at a special or general term thereof, where the
prisoner is detained within the judicial district within which the term is
held.
2. A justice of the supreme court, in any part of the State.
3. An officer authorized to perform the duties of a justice of the supreme
court at chambers, being or residing within the city or county, where the
prisoner is detained ; or, if there is no such officer within that city or county,
capable of acting, or, if all those who are capable of acting and authorized
to grant the writ, are absent, or have refused to grant it, then to an officer,
authorized to perform those duties, residing in an adjoining county.
§ 2018. Application in another county ; proof required. Where appli
cation for either writ is made as prescribed in subdivision third of the last
section, without the county where the prisoner is detained, the officer must
require proof, by the oath of the person applying, or by other sufficient evi
dence, of the facts which authorize him to act as therein prescribed ; and
if a judge in that county, authorized to grant the writ, is said to be incapable
of acting, the cause of the incapacity must be specially set forth. If such
proof is not produced, the application must be denied.
§ 2019. Contents of petition. The petition must be verified by the oath
of the petitioner, to the effect that he believes it to be true ; and must state,
in substance :
1. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is imprisoned,
or restrained in his liberty ; the place where, unless it is unknown, and the
officer or person by whom, he is so imprisoned or restrained, naming both
parties, if their names are known, and describing either party whose name
is unknown.
2. That he has not been committed, and is not detained, by virtue of any
judgment, decree, final order, or process, specified in section 2016 of this act.
3. The cause or pretense of the imprisonment or restraint, according to
the best knowledge and belief of the petitioner. •
4. If the imprisonment or restraint is by virtue of a mandate, a copy
thereof must be annexed
that by reason of the removal or concealment of the prisoner before the appli
cation, a demand of such a copy could not be made, or that such a demand
was made, and the legal fees for the copy were tendered to the officer or
other person, having the prisoner in his custody, and that the copy was
refused.
5. If the imprisonment is alleged to be illegal, the petition must state in
what the alleged illegality consists.
6. It must specify whether the petitioner applies for the writ of habeas
corpus, or for the writ of certiorari.
§ 2020. When writ must be granted ; penalty for refusing. A court
or a judge, authorized to grant either writ, must grant it without delay,
whenever a petition therefore is presented, as prescribed in the foregoing
sections of this article, unless it appears, from the petition itself, or the
documents annexed thereto, that the petitioner is prohibited by law from
prosecuting the writ. For a violation of this section, a judge, or, if the
application was made to a court, each member of the court, who assents to
the violation, forfeits to the prisoner one thousand dollars, to be recovered
by an action in his name, or in the name of the petitioner to his use.
§ 2021. Form of writ of habeas corpus. The writ of habeas corpus,
issued as prescribed in this article, must be substantially in the following
form, the blanks being properly filled up :
"The People of the State of New York,
To the Sheriff of," etc. [or " to A. B."]
" We command you, that you have the body of C. D., by you imprisoned
and detained, as it is said, together with the time and cause of such impris
onment and detention, by whatsoever name the said C. D. is called or
charged, before
," [" the supreme court, at a special " (or " gene
ral ") " term thereof, to be held," or " E. F., justice of the supreme court,"
or otherwise, as the case may be,] " at
, on
," [or " imme
diately after the receipt of this writ,"] " to do and receive what shall then
and there be considered, concerning the said C. D. And have you then
there this writ.
"Witness,
, one of the justices" (or "judges") "of the said
court," [or " county judge," or otherwise, as the case may be,] " the
day of
, in the year eighteen hundred and
§ 2022. Form of writ of certiorari. The writ of certiorari, issued as
prescribed in this article, must be substantially in the following form, the
blanks being properly filled up :
" The People of the State of New York,
To the Sheriff of," etc. [or "to A. B."]
" We command you, that you certify fully and at large, to
,"
["the supreme court, at a special" (or "general") "term thereof, to be
held," or " E. F., justice of the supreme court," or otherwise, as the case
may be,] " at
, on
," [or " immediately after the receipt of
this writ,"] "the day and cause of the imprisonment of C. D., by you
detained, as it is said, by whatsoever name the said C. D. is called or charged.
And have you then there this writ.
"Witness,
, one of the justices" (or "judges") "of the said
court," [or " county judge," or otherwise, as the case may be,] " the
day of
, in the year eighteen hundred and
."
§ 2023. When writ returnable before another judge. If application
for either writ is made to the supreme court, or to a justice thereof, in a
county other than that where the person is imprisoned or confined, the writ
may be made returnable, in its or his discretion, before any judge authorized
to grant it, in the county of the imprisonment or confinement.
§ 2024. When writ sufficient. The writ of habeas corpus or the writ
of certiorari shall not be disobeyed for any defect of form, and particularly
in either of the following cases :
1. If the person having the custody of the prisoner, is designated, either
by his name of office, if he has one, or by his own name ; or, if both names
are unknown or uncertain, by an assumed appellation. Any person, upon
whom the writ is served, is deemed to be the person to whom it is directed,
although it is directed to him by a wrong name or description, or to another
person.
2. If the prisoner directed to be produced, is designated by name, or
otherwise described in any way so as to be identified as the person intended.
§ 2025. When writ to issue without application. Where a justice of
the supreme court, in court or out of court, has evidence, in a judicial pro
ceeding taken before him, that any person is illegally imprisoned or
restrained in his liberty, within the State ; or where any other judge, author
ized by this article to grant the writs, has evidence, in like manner, that any
person is thus imprisoned or restrained, within the county where the judge
resides ; he must issue a writ of habeas corpus or a writ of certiorari, for the
relief of that person, although no application therefore has been made.
§ 2026. Return ; its contents. The person upon whom either writ has
been duly served, must state, plainly and unequivocally, in his return :
1. Whether or not, at the time when the writ was served, or at any time
theretofore or thereafter, he had in his custody, or under his power or
restraint, the person for whose relief the writ was issued.
2. If he so had that person, when the writ was served, and still has him,
the authority and true cause of the imprisonment or restraint, setting it
forth at length. If the prisoner is detained by virtue of a mandate, or other
written authority, a copy thereof must be annexed to the return, and, upon
the return of the writ, the original must be produced, and exhibited to the
court or judge.
3. If he so had the prisoner at any time, but has transferred the custody
or restraint of him to another, the return must conform to the return required
by the second subdivision of this section, except that the substance of the
mandate or other written authority may be given, if the original is no longer
in his hands ; and that the return must state particularly to whom, at what
time, for what cause, and by what authority, the transfer was made.
The return must be signed by the person making it, and, unless he is a
sworn public officer, and makes his return in his official capacity, it must be
verified by his oath.
§ 2027. Habeas corpus ; body of prisoner to be produced, unless,
etc. The person, upon whom a writ of habeas corpus has been duly served,
must also bring up the body of the prisoner in his custody, according to the
command of the writ ; unless he states, in his return, that the prisoner is so
sick or infirm, that the production of him would endanger his life or his
health.
§ 2028. Proceedings on disobedience of writ Where a person, who has
been duly served with either writ, refuses or neglects, without sufficient cause
shown by him, fully to obey it, as prescribed in the last two sections, the
court or judge, before which or whom it is made returnable, upon proof of
the due service thereof, must forthwith issue a warrant of attachment,
directed generally to the sheriff of any county where the delinquent may
be found, or if the delinquent is a sheriff, to any coroner of his county, or to
a particular person specially appointed to execute the warrant, and designated
therein ; commanding such officer or other person forthwith to apprehend
the delinquent, and bring him before the court or judge. Upon the delin
quent being so brought up, an order must be made, committing him to
close custody in the jail of the county in which the court or judge is ; or, if
he is a sheriff, in the jail of a county, other than his own, designated in the
order ; and, in either case, without being allowed the liberties of the Jail.
The order must direct that he stand committed, until he makes return to the
writ, and complies with any order, which may be made by the court or
judge in relation to the person for whose relief the writ was issued.
§ 2029. Id. ; precept to bring up prisoner. The court or judge may
also, in its or his discretion, at the time when the warrant of attachment is
issued, or afterwards, issue a precept to the sheriff, coroner, or other person,
to whom the warrant is directed, commanding him forthwith to bring before
the court or judge the person for whose benefit the writ was granted, who
must thereafter remain in the custody of the officer or person executing the
precept, until discharged, bailed, or remanded, as the court or judge directs.
§ 2030. Id. ; power of county may be called The sheriff, coroner, or
other person, to whom a warrant of attachment or precept is directed, as
prescribed in either of the last two sections, may, in the execution thereof,
call to his aid the power of the county, as a sheriff may do, in the execution
of a mandate issue from a court of record.
§ 2031. Proceedings on return of habeas corpus. The court or judge,
before which or whom a prisoner is brought by virtue of a writ of habeas
corpus, issued as prescribed in this article, must, immediately after the
return of the writ, examine into the facts alleged in the return, and into the
cause of the imprisonment or restraint, of the prisoner ; and must make a
final order to discharge him therefrom, if no lawful cause for the imprison
ment or restraint, or for the continuance thereof, is shown ; whether the
same was upon a commitment for an actual or supposed criminal matter, or
for some other cause.
§ 2032. When prisoner to be remanded The court or judge must
forthwith make a final order to remand the prisoner, if it appears that he is
detained in custody for either of the following causes, and that the time for
which he may legally be so detained has not expired :
1. By virtue of a mandate issued by a court or a judge of the United
States, in a case where such courts or judges have exclusive jurisdiction.
2. By virtue of the final judgment or decree of a competent tribunal, of
civil or criminal jurisdiction ; or the final order of such a tribunal, made in
a special proceeding, instituted for any cause, except to punish him for a
contempt ; or by virtue of an execution or other process, issued upon such a
judgment, decree, or final order.
3. For a criminal contempt, defined in section 8 of this act, and specially
and plainly charged in a commitment, made by a court, officer, or body,
having authority to commit for the contempt so charged.
§ 2033. When to be discharged in civil cases. If it appears upon the
return, that the prisoner is in custody by virtue of a mandate in a civil cause,
he can be discharged, only in one of the following cases:
1. Where the jurisdiction of the court which, or of the officer who, issued
the mandate, has been exceeded, either as to matter, place, sum or person.
2. Where, although the original imprisonment was lawful, yet by some
act, omission, or event, which has taken place afterwards, the prisoner has
become entitled to be discharged.
3. Where the mandate is defective in a matter of substance required by
law, rendering it void.
4. Where the mandate, although in proper form, was issued in a case not
allowed by law.
5. Where the person, having the custody of the prisoner under the man
date, is not the person empowered by law to detain him.
6. Where the mandate is not authorized by a judgment, decree, or order
of a court, or by a provision of law.
§ 2034. The last section qualified. But a court or judge, upon the
return of a writ issued as prescribed in this article, shall not inquire into
the legality or justice of any mandate, judgment, decree, or final order,
specified in the last section but one, except as therein stated.
§ 2035. Proceedings on irregular commitment If it appears that the
prisoner has been legally committed for a criminal offense, or if he appears,
by the testimony offered with the return, or upon the hearing thereof, to be
guilty of such an offense, although the commitment is irregular, the court
or judge; before which or whom he is brought, must forthwith make a final
order, to discharge him upon his giving bail, if the case is bailable ; or, if it
is not bailable, to remand him. Where bail is given pursuant to an order,
made as prescribed in this section, the proceedings are the same, as upon the
return to a writ of certiorari, where it appears that the prisoner is entitled
to be bailed.
2036. Id. ; when prisoner may be committed to another officer.
ere a prisoner is not entitled to his discharge, and is not bailed, he must
be remanded to the custody, or placed under the restraint from which he
was taken, unless the person, in whose custody or under whose restraint he
was, is not lawfully entitled thereto ; in which case, the order remanding
him must commit him to the custody of the officer or person so entitled.
§ 2037. Custody of prisoner pending the proceedings. Pending the
proceedings, and before a final order is made upon the return, the court or
judge, before which or whom the prisoner is brought, may either commit
him to the custody of the sheriff of the county wherein the proceedings are
pending, or place him in such care or custody, as his age and other circum
stances require.
§ 2038. Notice to person interested in detention Where it appears,
from the return to either writ, that the prisoner is in custody by virtue of a
mandate, an order for his discharge shall not be made, until notice of the
time when, and the place where, the writ is returnable, or to which the
hearing has been adjourned, as the case may be, has been either personally
served, eight days previously, or given in such other manner, and fty such
previous length of time, as the court or judge prescribes, as follows :
1. Where the mandate was issued or made in a civil action or special pro
ceeding, to the person who has an interest in continuing the imprisonment
or restraint, or his attorney.
2. In every other case, to the district attorney of the county, within which
the prisoner was detained, at the time when the writ was served.
3. For the purpose of an appeal, the person to whom notice is given, as
prescribed in the first subdivision of this section, becomes a party to the
special proceeding.
§ 2039. Prisoner may controvert return ; proofs thereupon A pris
oner, produced upon the return of a writ of habeas corpus, may, under oath,
deny any material allegation of the return, or make any allegation of fact,
showing either that his imprisonment or detention is unlawful, or that he is
entitled to his discharge. Thereupon the court or judge must proceed, in a
summary way, to hear the evidence, produce in support of or against the
imprisonment or detention, and to dispose of the prisoner as the justice of
the case requires.
§ 2040. Proceedings upon sickness, etc., of prisoner. Where the
return to a writ of habeas corpus states that the prisoner is so sick or infirm,
that the production of him would endanger his life or health, and the return
is otherwise sufficient, the court or judge, if satisfied of the truth of that
statement, must decide upon the return, and dispose of the matter, as if a
writ of certiorari had been issued.
§ 2041. When certiorari to issue on application for habeas corpus.
Where an application is made for a writ of habeas corpus, as prescribed in
this article, and it appears to the court or judge, upon the petition and the
documents annexed thereto, that the cause or offense, for which the party is
imprisoned or detained, is not bailable, a writ of certiorari may be granted,
instead of a writ of habeas corpus, as if the application had been made for
the former writ.
§ 2042. Proceedings upon its return. Upon the return to such a writ
of certiorari, the court or j udge, before which or whom it is returnable, must
proceed as upon a return to a writ of habeas corpus, and must hear the
proofs of the parties, in support of and against the return.
§ 2043. Id. ; when discharge to be granted ; when proceedings to
cease. If it appears, that the prisoner is unlawfully imprisoned or restrained
in his liberty, the court or judge must make a final order, discharging him
forthwith. If it appears that he is lawfully imprisoned or detained, and is
not entitled to be bailed, the court or judge must make a final order, dis
missing the proceedings.
§ 2044. When certiorari does not prevent habeas corpus. Notwith
standing a writ of certiorari has been issued or returned, as prescribed in
this article, the court or judge, before which or whom it is returnable, may
issue a writ of habeas corpus, which is, in all respects, subject to the fore
going provisions of this article, relating to the latter writ. If the court or
judge refuse a writ of certiorari, or, upon the return thereof, refuse to dis
charge the prisoner, the latter may claim, and is entitled to, the writ of
habeas corpus, as prescribed in this article.
§ 2045. Bail on certiorari ; when and how ordered. If, upon the
return to a writ of certiorari, issued as prescribed in this article, it appears,
that the person imprisoned or detained is entitled to be bailed, the court or
judge must make a final order, fixing the sum in which he is to be admitted
to bail ; specifying the court, and the term thereof, at which he is required
to appear ; and directing his discharge, upon bail being given accordingly,
as required by law. If sufficient bail is immediately offered, the court or
judge must take it ; otherwise, bail may be given afterwards as prescribed
in the next section.
8 2046. Id. ; by whom and how taken. Upon the production of the
order, or, if it was made by a court, of a certified copy thereof, to a justice
of the supreme court, or to the county judge or special county judge of the
county, or to a judge of a superior city court of the city, where the prisoner
is detained, the judge must take the recognizance of the prisoner, with two
sureties, in the sum so fixed, conditioned for the appearance of the prisoner,
as prescribed in the order. Each person, offering himself as a surety, must
show, by his oath, to the satisfaction of the judge, that he is a householder
in the county, and worth twice the sum in which he is required to be bound,
over and above all demands against him. It is not necessary, that the
prisoner should appear in person before the judge, to acknowledge the
recognizance ; but it may be acknowledged by the prisoner, and certified,
in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county.
§ 2047. Discharge of prisoner bailed. The judge must immediately
file the recognizance with the clerk of the court, before which the prisoner
is bound to appear. He must also make a certificate upon the order, or the
certified copy thereof, to the effect that it has been complied with. Upon
production of the certificate, the prisoner is entitled to his discharge from
imprisonment, for any cause stated in the return to the certiorari.
§ 2048. Order substituted for writ of discharge ; service and effect
thereof. The writ of discharge is abolished. A final order to discharge a
prisoner, made as prescribed in this article, may be served in like manner as
an injunction order, and when so served, it may be enforced in the same
manner as a final judgment in a civil action, except where special provision
for its enforcement is otherwise made in this act. Where such an order
directs a discharge, upon giving bail, the sendee thereof is not complete until
service of the certificate, or other proof prescribed by law, showing that bail
has been given, as required thereby.
§ 2049. Enforcing order for discharge ; penalty, etc. Obedience to a
final order to discharge a prisoner, made as prescribed in this article, may be
enforced by the court which, or the judge who, made the same, by attach
ment, as for a neglect to make a return to a writ of habeas corpus, and with
like effect. A person guilty of such disobedience forfeits, to the prisoner
aggrieved, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, in addition to the
damages which the latter sustains.
§ 2050. When prisoner discharged not to be re-imprisoned ; when
he may be. A prisoner who has been discharged by a final order, made
upon a writ of habeas corpus or certiorari, issued as prescribed in this article,
shall not be again imprisoned, restrained, or kept in custody, for the same
cause. But it is not deemed to be the same cause in either of the following
cases :
1. Where he has been discharged from a commitment on a criminal charge ;
and is afterwards committed for the same offense, by the lawful order or other
mandate of the court wherein he was bound by recognizance to appear, or in
which he has been indicted or convicted for the same offense.
2. Where he has been discharged, in a criminal cause, for defect of proof,
or for a material defect in the commitment ; and is afterwards arrested on 1
sufficient proof, and committed by a lawful mandate, for the same offense.
3. Where he has been discharged, in a civil action or special proceeding,
for an illegality in the judgment, final order, or other mandate, as prescribed
in this article ; and is afterwards imprisoned, by virtue of a lawful judg
ment, final order, or other mandate, for the same cause of action.
4. Where he has been discharged, in a civil action or special proceeding,
from imprisonment by virtue of an order of arrest ; and is afterwards taken
in execution, or other final process, in the same action or special proceeding,
or arrested in another action or special proceeding, after the first was dis
continued.
§ 2051. Penalty for violating the last section. If a court, or a judge,
or any other person, in the execution of a judgment, order or other mandate,
or otherwise knowingly violates, causes to be violated, or assists in the vio
lation of, the last section, he, or if the act or omission was that of a court,
each member of the court assenting thereto, forfeits, to the prisoner ag
grieved, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars. He is also guilty of a
misdemeanor ; and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine, not
exceeding one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment, not exceeding six
months, or by both, in the discretion of the court.
§ 2052. Id ; for concealing prisoner, etc., to avoid writ. Any one'
having in his custody, or under his power, a person entitled to a writ of
habeas corpus, or a writ of certiorari, as prescribed in this article, or a per
son for whose relief a writ of habeas corpus or a writ of certiorari has been
duly issued, as prescribed in this article, who with intent to elude the ser
vice of the writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, transfers the prisoner to the
custody, or places him under the power or control, of another, or conceals
him, or changes the place of his confinement, is guilty of a misdemeanor ;
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as specified in the last
section.
^ 2053. Id. ; for aiding, etc. A person who knowingly assists in the vio
lation of the last section, is guilty of a misdemeanor ; and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as specified in the last section but one.
§ 2054. Warrant to bring up prisoner about being removed. Where
it appears, by proof satisfactory to a court or judge, authorized to grant
either writ, that a person is held in unlawful confinement or custody, and
that there is good reason to believe that he will be earned out of the State,
or suffer irreparable injury, before he can be relieved by a writ of habeas
corpus or a writ of certiorari ; the court, or judge must issue a warrant, re
citing the facts, directed to a particular sheriff, or generally to any sheriff or
constable, or to a person specially designated therein ; and commanding him
to take, and forthwith to bring before the court or judge, the prisoner, to be
dealt with according to law. If the warrant is issued by a court, it must be
under the seal thereof; if by a judge, it must be under his hand.
§ 2055. When offender to be arrested. Where the proof, specified in
the last section is also sufficient to justify an arrest of the person having the
prisoner in his custody, as for a criminal offense, committed in taking or
detaining him, the warrant must also contain a direction to arrest that per
son, for the offense.
§ 2056. Execution of warrant ; proceedings to relieve prisoner.
The officer or other person, to whom the warrant is directed and delivered,
must execute it by bringing the prisoner therein named, and also, if so com
manded in the warrant, the person who detains him, before the court or
judge issuing it ; and thereupon the person detaining the prisoner must
make a return, in like manner, and the like proceedings must be taken, as
if a writ of habeas corpus had been issued in the first instance.
§ 2057. Id. ; proceedings to punish offender. If the person having
the prisoner in his custody, is brought before the court or judge, as for a
criminal offense, he is entitled to be examined, and must be committed,
bailed, or discharged, by the court or judge, as in any other criminal case of
the same nature.
§ 2058. When appeal may be taken in cases under this article. An
appeal may be taken from an order refusing to grant a writ of habeas corpus,
or a writ of certiorari, as prescribed in this article, or from a final order,
made upon the return of such a writ, to discharge or remand a prisoner, or
to dismiss the proceedings. Where a final order is made, to discharge a
prisoner, upon his giving bail, an appeal therefrom may be taken, before
bail is given ; but where the appeal is taken by the people, the discharge of
the prisoner upon bail shall not be stayed thereby. An appeal does not lie,
from an order of the court or judge, before which or whom the writ is made
returnable, except as prescribed in this section.
§ 2059. Id. ; by people. An appeal from a final order, discharging a
prisoner committed upon a criminal accusation, or from the affirmance of
such an order, may be taken, in the name of the people, by the AttorneyGeneral or the district-attorney.
§ 2060. Prisoner who appeals may be admitted to bail Where a
prisoner, who stands charged, upon a criminal accusation, with a bailable
offense, has perfected, or intends to take, an appeal from a final order dis
missing the proceedings, remanding him, or otherwise refusing to discharge
him, made as prescribed in this article, the court or judge, upon his appli
cation, either before or after the final order, must, upon such notice to the
district-attorney as the court or judge thinks proper, make an order, fixing
the sum in which the applicant shall be admitted to bail, pending the appeal ;
and thereupon, when his appeal is perfected, he must be admitted to bail
accordingly.
§ 2061. Id. ; recognizance, etc. The recognizance for that purpose
must be conditioned, that the prisoner will appear, at a general term of the
appellate court to be held at a time and place designated in the order, and
abide by and perform the judgment or order of the appellate court. It must
be taken and approved by a justice of the supreme court, or by the court or
judge from whose order the appeal is taken, or by the county judge of the
county in which the order was made, or, in the city of New York, by a judge
of the court of common pleas for that city and county. In all other respects,
the proceedings are the same as prescribed in this article, where it appears,
upon the return of a writ of certiorari, that the prisoner is entitled to be
admitted to bail.
§ 2062. Id. ; on appeal to court of appeals. Where a prisoner, who
stands charged with an offense, specified in the last section, has perfected
an appeal, to the court of appeals, from a final order of the supreme court,
or of a superior city court, affirming an order refusing his discharge, or
reversing an order granting his discharge ; the court, from whose order the
appeal is taken, or a judge thereof, must, upon his application, admit him
to bail, as prescribed in the last section ; except that the recognizance must
be conditioned to appear, at a general term of the court from which the
appeal is taken, to abide by and perform its judgment or order, made after
the determination of the appeal.
§ 2063. Custody of prisoner until he gives bail. "Where the sum, in
which a prisoner shall be admitted to bail, has been fixed, as prescribed in
either of the last two sections, he must remain in the custody of the sheriff
of the county in which he then is, until he is admitted to bail, as therein
prescribed ; or, if he does not give the requisite bail, until the time to appeal
has expired, or the appeal is disposed of, and the further direction of the
court, made thereupon.
§ 2064. When recognizance to be valid for an adjournment, etc.
Where no order or other direction of the court, relating to the disposition of
the prisoner, is made at the term specified in a recognizance, given as perscribed in section 2061 or section 2062 of this act, the matter is deemed
adjourned without an order to that effect, to the next general term of the
same court ; or, in the supreme court, to the next general term thereof to be
held in the same department ; and thereafter to each successive general
term, until such an order or direction is made. The prisoner is bound to
attend at each successive general term ; and the recognizance is valid for
his attendance accordingly, without any notice or other formal proceedings.
§ 2065. Penalty for refusing copy of process, etc. An officer or other
person, who detained any one by virtue of a mandate, or other written author
ity, must, upon reasonable demand, and tender of his fees, deliver a copy
thereof to any person who applies therefore, for the purpose of procuring a
writ of habeas corpus or a writ of certiorari, in behalf of the prisoner. If
he knowingly refuses so to do, he forfeits two hundred dollars to the prisoner.
§ 2066. Application of this article to other writs of habeas corpus.
Except as otherwise expressly prescribed by statute, the provisions of this
article apply to and regulate the proceedings upon every common law or
statutory writ of habeas corpus, as far as they are applicable ; and the
authority of a court or a judge, to grant such a writ, or to proceed thereupon,
by statute or the common law, must be exercised in conformity to this article,
in any case therein provided for.
§ 2067. Kinds of writ ; how alternative writ granted. A writ of man
damus is either alternative or peremptory. The alternative writ may be
granted upon an affidavit, or other written proof, showing a proper case
therefore ; and either with or without previous notice of the application, as
the court thinks proper.
§ 2068. When writ granted at special term. Except where special
revision therefore is otherwise made in this article, a writ of mandamus can
e granted only at a special term of the court. In the supreme court, the
special term must be one held within the judicial district embracing the
county wherein an issue of fact, joined upon an alternative writ of manda
mus, is triable, as prescribed in this article.
§ 2069. Id. ; at general term of supreme court A writ of mandamus
may be granted, at a general term of the supreme court only, directed gene
rally to any judge holding, or to hold, a special term of the same court, or
directed to one or more judges of the same court named therein, in any
case where such a writ may be issued out of the supreme court, directed to
any other court, or to a judge thereof. Such a writ can be granted only at
the general term of the judicial department, embracing the county, wherein
the action is triable, or the special proceeding is brought, in the course of
which the matter sought to be enforced by the mandamus originated, unless
that general term is not in session ; in which case it may be granted at
the general term of an adjoining judicial department.
§ 2070. When peremptory mandamus to issue in first instance.
A peremptory writ of mandamus may be issued, in the first instance, where
the applicant's right to the mandamus depends only upon questions of law,
and notice of the application has been given to a judge of the court, or to
the corporation, board, or other body, officer, or other person, to which or to
whom it is directed. The notice must be served, at least eight days before
the application is heard ; unless a shorter time is prescribed by an order to
show cause, made, where the application is to the special term, by the court,
or a judge thereof; or, where the application is to the general term, by
the general term, or a general term justice, of that judicial department.
In such a case, the application must be founded upon affidavits, or other
written proofs, a copy of which must be served with the notice, or order to
show cause. Where the court, board, or other body to be served, consists
of three or more members, the notice or order to show cause, and the papers
upon which the application is to be made, may be served, as prescribed in
the next section for service of an alternative writ of mandamus. Except as
prescribed in this section, or by special provision of law, a peremptory man
damus cannot be issued, until an alternative mandamus has been issued and
duly served, and the return day thereof has elapsed.
§ 2071. Alternative writ ; how served. An alternative writ of man
damus must be served, by showing the original writ, and delivering a copy
thereof, to the person to be served. Where it is directed to a court, or to
the judge or judges of a court, it must be served, either in term time or in
vacation, upon the judge or judges of the court ; except that, where the
court consists of three or more judges, service upon a majority of them is
sufficient. Where it is to be served upon a board or body, other than a
corporation, service must be made upon a majority of the members thereof,
unless the board or body was created by law, and has a chairman or other
presiding officer, appointed pursuant to law ; in which case, service upon
him is sufficient. Where the writ is to be served upon a corporation, service
thereof may be made upon any officer, upon whom a summons, issued out of
the supreme court, may be served. Where one or more of the persons, upon
whom to make service, as prescribed in this section cannot, after due dili
gence, be found, the exhibition of the original writ may be dispensed with,
and service may be made upon him or them, as prescribed by law for the
service of a summons, issued out of the supreme court.
§ 2072. Writ ; how returnable. An alternative writ must be made
returnable twenty days after the service thereof, at the office of the clerk
of the court, or, in the supreme court, the clerk of the county, designated
therein, in which an issue of fact joined thereupon is triable. A peremp
tory writ must be made returnable at a general or a special term, desig
nated therein, to which application for the alternative writ might have been
made.
§ 2073. Return or demurrer to first writ Where the first writ of
mandamus has been duly served, a return must be made to the same, as
therein required, unless it is an alternative writ, and a demurrer thereto is
taken. In default of a return, the person or persons, upon whom the writ
was served, may be punished, upon the application of the people, or of the
relator, for a contempt of court.
§ 2074. Return ; how made. The return to an alternative writ of man
damus must be annexed to a copy of the writ ; and must be filed, in the
office of the clerk, where it is returnable, within the time specified in the
writ. The return to a peremptory writ of mandamus must be likewise
annexed to a copy thereof ; and must, before the expiration of the first day
of the term at which it is returnable, be either delivered in open court, or
filed in the office of the clerk of the court, or, in the supreme court, the clerk
of the county wherein the term is to be held.
§ 2075. Motion to set aside writ An alternative writ of mandamus
cannot be quashed or set aside upon motion, for any matter involving the
merits. A motion to set aside such a writ, for any other cause, or to set
aside or quash a peremptory writ of mandamus, or to set aside the service
of either writ, must be made at a term, whereat the writ might have been
granted.
§ 2076. Contents of alternative writ ; demurrer thereto. The state
ment, contained in an alternative writ of mandamus, of the facts constituting
the grievance, to redress which it is issued ; the joinder therein of two or
more such grievances ; and the command of the writ, are subject to the
provisions of chapter sixth of this act, respecting the statement, in a com
plaint, of the facts constituting a cause of action ; the joinder therein of two
or more causes of action ; and the demand of judgment thereupon. The
person, upon whom the writ is served, instead of making a return thereto,
may file in the office where the writ is returnable, a demurrer to the writ ;
or he may file a demurrer to a complete statement of facts contained in the
writ, as constituting a separate grievance, and make a return to the remain
der of the writ. A demurrer may be thus taken, in a case where a defend
ant may demur to a complaint, or to a cause of action separately stated in a
complaint, as prescribed in chapter sixth of this act ; and it must be in like
form.
§ 2077. Form and contents of return. The provisions of chapter sixth
of this act, relating to the form and contents of an answer, containing denials
and allegations of new matter, except those provisions which relate to the
verification of an answer, and to a counterclaim contained therein, apply to
a return to an alternative writ of mandamus, showing cause against obeying
the command of the writ. For the purpose of the application, each complete
statement of facts, assigning a cause why the command of the writ ought
not to be obeyed, is regarded as a separate defense, and must be separately
stated, and numbered.
§ 2078. Further return cannot be compelled ; demurrer to return.
A person, who has made a return to an alternative mandamus, cannot be
compelled to make a further return. The people, or the relator, may demur
to the return, or to any complete statement of facts, therein separately
assigned as a cause for disobeying the command of the writ, on the ground
that the same is insufficient in law, upon the face thereof.
§ 2079. Issue of feet ; when it arises. An issue of fact arises upon a
denial, contained in the return, of a material allegation of the writ, or upon
a material allegation of new matter, contained in a return ; unless a demur
rer thereto is taken. Where the people or relator demur to a complete
statement of facts, separately assigned^ as a cause for disobeying the com
mand of the writ, an issue of fact arises, with respect to the remainder of
the return.
§ 2080. Application of certain provisions of chapter sixth, Oral
pleadings upon a writ of mandamus are abolished, and no pleadings are
allowed, except as prescribed in the foregoing sections of this article. The provisions of title second of chapter sixth of this act apply to the writ and
the return ; except that it is not necessary to serve a copy of either, upon
the attorney for the adverse party, or to verify either, and that neither can
be amended, without special application to the court, or stricken out as sham.
§ 2081. Service of notice of filing return and demurrer. Where a
return to an alternative writ of mandamus has been filed, the attorney for
the defendant making it must serve, upon the attorney for the people or the
relator, a notice of the filing thereof. Where the people or the relator
demur to the return, or to a part thereof, a copy of the demurrer must be
served upon the attorney for the defendant, within twenty days after the
service of such a notice. Where the defendant demurs to the writ, or to a
part thereof, a copy of the demurrer must be served upon the attorney for
the people or the relator, within the time prescribed by law for filing it.
§ 2082. Subsequent proceedings the same as in an action. Except
as otherwise expressly prescribed in this act, the proceedings, after issue is
joined, upon the facts or upon the law, are, in all respects, the same as in
an action ; and each provision of this act, relating to the proceedings in an
action, apply thereto. For the purpose of the application, the writ, the
return, and the demurrer are deemed to be pleadings in an action ; and the
final order is deemed to be a final judgment, and may be entered and
docketed, and enforced, with respect to such parts thereof as are not
enforced by peremptory mandamus, as a final judgment in an action. But
before the final order can be docketed, or an execution issued thereupon, an
enrollment must be filed thereupon, as a judgment-roll in an action. For
that purpose, the clerk must attach together and file in his office, a certified
copy of the final order ; the writ and the return, or copies thereof ; together
with the same papers which are required by law to be incorporated into a
judgment-roll in an action. Where the final order is in favor of the people
or the relator, it must award a peremptory mandamus, to be forthwith issued.
§ 2083. Issue of fact ; how triable. An issue of fact, joined upon an
alternative writ of mandamus, must be tried by a j ury, as if it was an issue
joined in an action specified in section 968 of this act ; unless a jury trial is
waived, or a reference is directed by consent of parties. Where the writ
was issued upon the relation of a private person, the relator or the defendant
is entitled to a verdict, report or decision, where he would be entitled thereto,
if the issue was joined in an action, brought by the relator against the
defendant, to recover damages for making a false return.
^ 2084. Id ; where triable. An issue of fact, joined upon an alternative
writ of mandamus, granted at a special term of the supreme court, is triable
in the county, wherein it is alleged in the writ, that the material fa«ts took
place, unless the court directs it to be tried elsewhere. An issue of fact,
joined upon an alternative writ of mandamus, granted at a general term, is
triable in the county, which determines the judicial department wherein
the application for the writ must be made ; unless the general term directs
it to be tried in another county of the same judicial department. Where
the writ was granted at the general term, the general term may detail a
general term justice, of the same or another judicial department, to preside
at the trial. Upon the trial of an issue of fact, joined upon an alternative
writ of mandamus, the verdict, report, or decision must be returned to, and
the final order thereupon must be made by, the general or the special term,
as the case requires.
§ 2085. Issue of law upon general term mandamus ; how and
where triable. An issue of law, joined upon an alternative writ of mandamus, granted at the general term, must be tried, and the final order there
upon must be made, at the general term.
§ 2086. Costs. Where an alternative writ of mandamus has been issued,
costs may be awarded, as in an action ; except that, upon making a final
order, the costs are in the discretion of the court. Where a peremptory
mandamus is granted, without a previous alternative mandamus, costs, not
exceeding fifty dollars and disbursements, may be awarded to either party,
as upon a motion.
§ 2087. Appeals. An appeal from an order granting a peremptory writ
of mandamus, where an alternative writ of mandamus was not previously
issued, must be taken as from a final order made in a special proceeding.
An appeal from a final order made upon an alternative mandamus, must be
taken as an appeal from a judgment ; and each provision of law, relating to
an appeal from a judgment, either to the general term or to the court of ap
peals, is applicable thereto. But where an appeal is taken, as prescribed in
this section, from an order of the general term, granting a peremptory man
damus, made upon an original application, or from a final order, made upon
an alternative mandamus, granted at the general term, the execution of the
order appealed from shall not be stayed, except by the order of the same
general term, made upon such terms, as to security or otherwise, as justice
requires.
§ 2088. When relator to recover damages. Where a return has been
made to an alternative writ of mandamus, issued upon the relation of a pri
vate person, the court, upon making a final order for a peremptory manda
mus, must also, if the relator so elects, award to the relator, against the de
fendant who made the return, the same damages, if any, which the relator
might recover, in an action against that defendant, for a false return. The
relator may require his damages to be assessed, upon the trial of an issue of
fact, if the verdict, report, or decision is in his favor. Where he is entitled
to a final order, for any other cause, he may require them to be assessed as
in an action. Such an assessment of damages bars an action for a false
return.
§ 2089. Stay of proceedings ; enlargement of time. The proceedings
upon a writ of mandamus, granted at a special term may be stayed, and
the time for making a return, or for doing any other act thereupon, as pre
scribed in this article, may be enlarged, as in an action, by an order made
by a judge of the court, but not by any other officer. Where the writ was
granted at the general term, an order staying the proceedings, or enlarging
the time to make a return, can be made only by a general term justice of the
same department ; and where notice has been given of an application for a
mandamus at a general term, or an order has been made to show cause, at a
general term, why a mandamus should not issue, a stay of proceedings shall
not be granted, before the hearing, by any court or judge.
§ 2090. Fine in certain cases. Where a final order awards a peremptory
mandamus, directed to a public officer, board, or other body commanding
him or them to perform a public duty, enjoined upon him or them by special
I provision of law, if it appears to the court that the officer, or one or more
I members of the board or body, have, without just excuse, refused or neg
lected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court, besides awarding to the
relator his damages and costs, as prescribed in this article, may, in the same
order, impose a fine, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, upon the
officer, or upon o:i"h member of the board, who has so refused or neglected.
The fine, when collected, must be paid into the treasury of the State ; and
the payment thereof bars any action for a penalty, incurred by the person
so fined, by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.
§ 2091. Kinds of writ ; how granted. A writ of prohibition is either
alternative or absolute. The alternative writ may be granted upon an affidavit, or other written proof, showing a proper case therefore, and either with
or without previous notice of the application, as the court thinks proper.
§ 2092. When writ granted at Bpecial term. Except where special
provision therefore is otherwise made in this article, an alternative writ of
prohibition can be granted only at a special term of the court. In the
supreme court, the special term must be one held within the judicial district,
embracing the county, wherein the action is triable, or the special proceed
ing is brought, in the course of which the matter, sought to be prohibited by
the writ, originated.
§ 2093. Id. ; at general term of the supreme court An alternative
writ of prohibition may be granted at a general term of the supreme court
only, directed generally to any judge holding, or to hold, a special term of
the same court, or directed to one or more judges of the same court, named
therein, in any case where such a writ may be issued out of the supreme
court, directed to any other court, or to a judge thereof. Such a writ can be
granted only at the general term of the j udicial department, embracing the
county, wherein the action is triable, or the special proceeding is brought,
in the course of which the matter, sought to be prohibited by the writ,
originated, unless that general term is not in session ; in which case, it may
be granted at the general term of an adjoining judicial department.
§ 2094. Alternative writ must issue first ; contents. Except as
otherwise specially prescribed by law, an absolute writ of prohibition cannot
be issued, until an alternative writ has been issued and duly served, and
the return day thereof has elapsed. The alternative writ must be directed
to the court in which, or to the judge before whom, and also to the party in
whose favor, the proceedings to be restrained were taken, or are about to be
taken. It must command the court or judge, and also the party, to desist
and refrain from any further proceedings in the action or special proceeding,
or with respect to the particular matter or thing described therein, as the
case may be, until the further direction of the court issuing the writ ; and
also to show cause, at the time when, and the place where, the writ is made
returnable, why they should not be absolutely restrained from any further
proceedings in that action, special proceeding, or matter. The writ need not contain any statement of the facts or legal objections, upon ■which the rela
tor founds his claim to relief.
§ 2095. Id. ; when returnable ; how served. The writ must be made
returnable, either forthwith or at a day certain, before the term which granted
it, or upon the first day of a future term, therein specified, at which appli
cation for the writ might have been made. Where it is granted at the gen
eral term of a judicial department, adjoining that wherein the matter
originated, it may, in the discretion of the court, be made returnable at the
general term of either department. The writ must be served upon the court
or judge, and also upon the party, as prescribed by law for the service of an
alternative writ of mandamus. A copy of the papers, upon which it was
granted, must be delivered with each copy of the writ.
§ 2096. Absolute writ issues unless return made. Where the alter
native writ has been duly served upon the court or judge, and upon the
party, the relator is entitled to an absolute writ, unless a return is made by
the court or judge, and by the party, according to the exigency of the alter
native writ, or within such further time as may be granted for the purpose.
The return must be annexed to a copy of the writ ; and it must be either
delivered in open court, or filed in the office of the clerk of the court issuing
the writ ; or, in the supreme court, the clerk of the county where the writ is
returnable. Where the party makes a return, the court or judge must also
make a return. In default thereof, the judge or the members of the court,
may be punished, upon the application of the people or of the relator, for a
contempt of the court issuing the writ. A return to an alternative writ of
prohibition cannot be compelled in any other case.
§ 2097. Legal objections, how taken ; motion to quash or set aside
writ. An alternative writ of prohibition cannot be quashed or set aside,
upon motion, for any matter involving the merits. An objection to the legal
sufficiency of the papers, upon which the writ was granted, may be taken in
the return. A motion to quash an absolute writ of prohibition, or to set
aside an alternative writ, for any matter not involving the merits, must be
made at a term where the writ might have been granted.
§ 2098. Return by party ; proceedings when he adopts judge's
return. A return to an alternative writ, when made by a party, must be
verified by his affidavit, as required for the verification of a pleading in a
court of record ; unless it consists only of objections to the legal sufficiency
of the papers upon which the writ was granted. Where the party unites
with the court or judge in a return, or annexes, to the court's or the judge's
return, an instrument in writing, subscribed by him, to the effect that he
adopts it, and relies upon the matters therein contained, as sufficient cause
why the court or judge should not be restrained, as mentioned in the writ,
he is thenceforth deemed the sole defendant in the special proceeding ;
except that where a final order is made, awarding an absolute writ of pro
hibition, such a writ must be directed to the party, and also to the court or
the judge.
§ 2099. Proceedings after return ; trial by jury. Pleadings are not
allowed upon a writ of prohibition. Where an alternative writ has been
issued, the cause may be disposed of without further notice, at the term at
which the writ is returnable. If it is not then disposed of, it may be brought
to a hearing, upon notice, at a subsequent term. In the supreme court, it
must be heard at a general term of the same judicial department, or at a
special term held in the same judicial district, as the case may be. The
relator may controvert, by affidavit, any allegation of new matter contained
in the return. The court may direct the trial of any question of fact by a
jury, in like manner and with like effect, as where an order is made for the
trial, by a jury, of issues of fact, joined in an action triable by the court.
Where such a direction is given, the proceedings must be the same, as upon
the trial of issues so joined in an action.
§ 2100. Final order ; costs. Where a final order is made in favor of the
relator, it must award an absolute writ of prohibition ; and it may also direct
that all proceedings or any specified proceeding, theretofore taken in the
action, special proceeding, or matter, as to which the prohibition absolute
issues, be vacated and annulled. The writ of consultation is abolished.
Where a final order is made against the relator, it must authorize the court
or judge, and the adverse party, to proceed in the action, special proceeding,
or matter, as if the alternative writ had not beeu issued. Costs, not exceed
ing fifty dollars and disbursements, may be awarded to either party, as upon
a motion.
§ 2101. Appeals. A final order, made as prescribed in the last section,
can be reviewed only by appeal. Where the order was made by the general
term, the execution of the order appealed from shall not be stayed, except
by an order of the same general term, made upon such terms, as to security
or otherwise, as j ustice requires.
§ 2102. Stay of proceedings ; enlargement of time. The proceedings
upon a writ of prohibition, granted at a special term, may be stayed, and
the time for making a return, or for doing any other act thereupon, as pre
scribed in this article, may be enlarged, as in an action, by an order made
by the judge of the court, but not by any other officer. Where the writ
was granted at the general term, an order staying the proceedings, or
enlarging the time to make a return, can be made only by a general term
justice of the judicial department within which the writ is returnable ; and
where notice has been given of an application for a prohibition at a general
terra, or an order has been made to show cause at a general term, why a
prohibition should not issue, a stay of proceedings shall not be granted,
before the hearing, by any court or judge.
§ 2103. Writ defined The writ, heretofore known as the writ of ad quod
damnum, shall hereafter be styled the writ of assessment of damages.
§ 2104. Application therefore. Whenever the Governor of the State is
authorized by law, to take possession of any real property within the State,
for the use of the people of the State, and he cannot agree with the owner
or owners thereof for its purchase, he may cause application to be made to
the supreme court, at a special term thereof, for a writ of assessment of
damages, which must be granted accordingly.
§ 2105. When made by Attorney-General or district attorney. The
Attorney-General or the district attorney of the county in which the real
property is situated, must, when the Governor so directs, make the applica
tion, in the name of the Governor; and must conduct the subsequent pro
ceedings, under the Governor's direction.
§ 2106. Writ ; to whom directed. The writ must be directed to the
sheriff of the county in which the real property to be taken is situated,
unless the court directs the damages for the taking to be assessed by a jury
of another county ; in which case, the writ must be issued to the sheriff of
the county, from which the jury is directed to be taken.
§ 2107. Contents of writ The writ must describe the real property to
be taken, with the like certainty as is required in a complaint in an action
of ejectment. It must command the sheriff, to whom it is directed, to
inquire, by the oaths of twelve men of his county, qualified to act as trial
jurors in a court of record, whether the owner or owners of the real prop
erty, or any of them, will sustain any damages by the taking thereof, for
the use of the people of the State ; and, if so, the amount thereof ; and that
he return the writ to the supreme court, without delay, with the finding of
the jury thereupon.
§ 2108. Notice of execution The sheriff, immediately after the
delivery of the writ to him, must give notice of the time when, and the
place where, the writ will be executed, by publishing the notice, once in
each week, for at least three successive weeks, in a newspaper printed in
his county.
§ 2109. Jury ; how procured. The sheriff must notify twelve men of
his county, qualified to act as trial jurors in a court of record, to attend at
the time and place, and for the purpose, specified in the notice. Each juror
must be notified, as a juror is notified to attend a term of the circuit court.
Upon his failure to attend, when duly notified, his attendance may be com
pelled by attachment, and proceedings may be taken against him, and he
may be punished thereupon, by the supreme court, as where a juror, duly
notified, fails to attend at a circuit court. The sheriff may require the
attendance of a talesman, in place of a juror notified and not appearing ; or
he may adjourn the proceedings, for the purpose of punishing the defaulting
juror, or compelling his attendance.
§ 2110. Juror to be sworn. When a jury has been procured, the sheriff
must, before the jurors proceed to the inquiry commanded by the writ,
administer to each of them an oath, that he will diligently inquire concerning
the matters specified in the writ, and will give a true verdict, according to
the best of his judgment, without favor or partiality.
§ 2111. Jury to make inquisition. After being sworn as prescribed in
the last section, the jury must view all the real property described in the
writ, and consider the value thereof. They may, in the discretion of a
majority of them, hear such testimony as may be offered by any person
appearing, respecting the value. They must thereupon assess the damages,
which the owner or owners of the real property will sustain, by being
deprived thereof. When the real property consists of two or more distinct
parcels, owned, or claimed to be owned, by different persons, the jury must
assess separately the value of each distinct parcel, if the writ requires them
so to do, or if a majority of them think proper so to do. If they cannot
agree, after a reasonable time, the sheriff may discharge them, and publish
a new notice, and procure a new jury. When the jurors have agreed, they
must make an inquisition, stating the sum to be paid, by the people of the
State, for taking each distinct parcel, or the whole, as the case requires.
The inquisition must be signed by each juror, and by the sheriff ; and the
sheriff must immediately thereafter file the inquisition and the writ, with
his return to the writ, in the office of the clerk of the county in which the
real property is situated.
§ 2112. Notice of application to court thereupon. Within three
months after the writ, and the return thereto, with the inquisition thereupon,
have been filed, as prescribed in the last section, the Attorney-General, or
district-attorney, having charge of the proceedings, must cause to be pub
lished, a notice, directed, generally, to all owners and persons interested
in the real property ; describing the property, in general and concise terms ;
stating when and where the writ, return, and inquisition were filed ; and
requiring the persons notified to show cause, at a special term of the supreme
court, to be held at a time and at a place specified in the notice, why the
inquisition should not be confirmed ; or, if the Governor so directs, why the
inquisition should not be set aside. The notice must be published, at least
once in each week, for three successive weeks, in a newspaper printed in the
■county, and also in the newspaper printed at Albany, in which legal notices
are required to be published.
§ 2113. Court may set aside inquisition At the time and place speci
fied in the notice, the court must examine into the inquisition, and hear such
allegations and affidavits, or other written proofs, as may be presented in
behalf of the people, or any owner, or person interested. If the court then,
or at the time and place to which the matter is adjourned, determines that
the inquisition is, in any respect, excessive, unjust, or otherwise materially
defective, it may set aside the whole or any part thereof ; and may direct
that another writ issue, or another inquisition be taken, to supply the
defects.
§ 2114. Order on confirming inquisition If it appears to the court,
that the writ has been duly executed, an order must be made, and entered
in the office of the clerk of the county, in which the real property to be taken
is situated, declaring that the people of the State, upon paying into court
the amount of the damages assessed by the inquisition, shall be entitled to
an absolute estate in the real property described in the writ, and in the
appurtenances belonging thereto.
§ 2115. State Treasurer to pay damages, etc., to Governor. The State
Treasurer, on the warrant of the Comptroller, must pay to the Governor, out
of any money in the treasury, appropriated for that purpose, sufficient money
to pay the damages assessed, pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this
article, and the costs and expenses of the proceedings.
§ 2116. Governor to pay damages into court. Immediately after the
receipt by the Governor, as prescribed in the last section, of sufficient money
to pay the damages, he must pay it into court ; and thereupon the absolute
title to the real property so to be taken, vests in the people of the State.
§ 2117. Investment of money so paid. If an application for the money
paid into court is not made, as prescribed in the next section, within sixty
days after the payment into court, the general term of the Btipreme court in
that judicial department, may provide, by order, for the investment, under
the direction of the court, of the money, and of the interest to arise there
from, in permanent securities, for the benefit of the owners.
§ 2118. How obtained by claimant A person claiming to have been
an owner of, or interested in, the property, when it was so taken, may pre
sent to the supreme court, at a general term thereof, held in the judicial de
partment embracing the county wherein the property is situated, a petition,
praying for the payment to him of the whole or any part of the money so
paid into court, or of the income remaining uninvested, or both ; or for the
transfer to him of the whole or any part of the securities in which it has been
invested. The court must thereupon take such measures as it deems proper
to ascertain the rights and interests of the petitioner, and of all other per
sons who were owners of or interested in the property, or who are personal
representatives, or heirs, of owners or persons so interested, and to cause
notice of the application to be given to those persons ; and it must cause the
money to be paid, or the securities to be transferred, to the several persons
entitled thereto, in accordance with the rights and interests thus ascertained.
§ 2119. Taking lands by United States. When the Legislature of the
State consents to the taking of any real property within the State, for the
use of the people of the United States, a writ of assessment of damages may
be issued ; and the proceedings thereupon must be in accordance with the
provisions of this article ; except that the application for the writ must be
made, and the subsequent proceedings must be conducted, by the Attorney
of the United States for the district embracing the county wherein the real
property is situated.
Cases where writ may issue.
Cases where it cannot issue.
The same.
When issued from supreme court or superior city court.
When from another court.
Limitation of time for review.
Id. ; in case of disability.
Application for writ ; where and how made.
When notice necessary ; service thereof.
To whom writ directed.
Mode of service.
Stay of proceedings.
When and where writ returnable.
Subsequent proceedings as in an action.
Return ; when and how made.
Id. ; how compelled ; fees for making
Id. ; after term of office expired.
When third person may be brought in.
>
Hearing upon return.
Id. ; upon affidavits.
Questions to be determined.
Final order upon the hearing.
Restitution may be awarded.
Costs.
Entry and enrollment of final order.
Effect thereof.
" Body of officer ; " " determination ;" what they include.
Application of this article to certain special cases.
Id. ; to civil cases only.
§ 2120. Cases where writ may issue. The writ of certiorari regulated
in this article, except the writ specified in section 2124 of this act, is issued
to review the determination of a body or officer. It can be issued in one of
the following cases only :
L Where the right to the writ is expressly conferred, or the issue thereof
is expressly authorized by statute.
2. Where the writ may be issued at common law, by a court of general
jurisdiction, and the right to the writ, or the power of the court to issue it,
is not expressly taken away by a statute.
§ 2121. Cases where it cannot issue. A writ of certiorari cannot be
issued, to review a determination, made, after this article takes effect, in a
civil action or special proceeding, by a court of record, or a judge of a court
of record.
§ 2122. The same. Except as otherwise expressly prescribed by a stat
ute, a writ of certiorari cannot be issued, in either of the following cases :
1. To review a determination, which does not finally determine the rights
of the parties, with respect to the matter to be reviewed.
2. Where the determination can be adequately reviewed, by an appeal to
a court, or to some other body or officer.
3. Where the body or officer, making the determination, is expressly auth
orized, by statute, to rehear the matter, upon the relator's application;
unless the determination to be reviewed was made upon a rehearing, or the
time within which the relator can procure a rehearing has elapsed.
8 2123. When issued from supreme court or superior city court A
writ of certiorari can be issued only out of the supreme court, or a superior
city court ; except in a case where another court is expressly authorized by
statute to issue it.
§ 2124. When from another court. Any court of record, exercising
jurisdiction of an appellate nature, may issue a writ of certiorari, requiring
the body or officer whose proceedings are under review, to make a return to
the court issuing the writ, at a time and place fixed by the court, and desig
nated in the writ, for the purpose of supplying any diminution, variance, or
other defect, in the record or other papers, before the court issuing the writ,
in any case where justice requires that the defect should be supplied, and
adequate relief cannot be obtained by means of an order.
§ 2125. Limitation of time for review. Subject to the provisions of the
next section, a writ of certiorari to review a determination must be granted
and served, within four calendar months after the determination to be
reviewed becomes final and binding, upon the relator, or the person whom
he represents, either in law or in fact.
§ 2126. Id. ; in case of disability. The court, at a general term thereof,
may grant the writ at any time within twenty months after the expiration
of the time limited in the last section, where the relator, or the person whom
he represents, was, at the time when the determination to be reviewed
became final and binding upon him, either
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or
2. Insane ; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction of a
criminal offense, for a term less than for life.
§ 2127. Application for writ ; where and how made. An application
for the writ must be made by, or in behalf of, a person aggrieved by the
determination to be reviewed; must be founded upon an affidavit, or a
verified petition, which may be accompanied by other written proof ; and
must show a proper case for the issuing of the writ. It can be granted only
at a general or special term of the court j and the granting or refusal thereof
is discretionary with the court.
§ 2128. When notice necessary ; service thereof Until provision is
made, in the general rules of practice, for requiring, or dispensing with
notice of the application for the writ, the court, to which the application for
the writ is made, may, in its discretion, require or dispense with notice. A
notice, when it is necessary, must be served with copies of the papers upon
which the application is to be made, upon the body or officer, whose deter
mination is to be reviewed, or upon such other person as the court directs, as
prescribed in this article for the service of a writ of certiorari. The service
must be made, at least eight days before the application, unless the court,
by an order to show cause, prescribes a shorter time. Where notice is given,
the person served may produce affidavits or other written proofs, upon the
merits, in opposition to the application.
8 2129. To whom writ directed. The writ must be directed to the
body or officer, whose determination is to be reviewed ; or to any other per
son having the custody of the record or other papers to be certified ; or to
both, if necessary. Where it is brought to review the determination of a
board or body, other than a court, if an action would lie against the board
or body, in its associate or official name, it must be directed to the board or
body, by that name ; otherwise it must be directed to the members thereof,
by their names.
§ 2130. Mode of service. A writ of certiorari must be served as follows,
except where different directions, respecting the mode of service thereof, are
given by the court granting it :
1. Where it is directed to a person or persons by name, or by his or their
official title or titles, or to a municipal corporation, it must be served, upon
each officer or other person, to whom it is so directed, or upon the corpora
tion, in the same manner as a summons in an action brought in the supreme
court, except as prescribed in the next two subdivisions of this section.
2. Where it is directed to a court, or to the judges of a court, having a
clerk appointed pursuant to law, service upon the court, or the judges thereof,
may be made by filing the writ with the clerk.
3. Where it is to be served upon any other board or body, or upon the
members thereof, it may be served as prescribed in section 2071 of this act,
for service, upon a like board or body, of an alternative writ of mandamus.
§ 2131. Stay of proceedings. Except as prescribed in this section,
a writ of certiorari does not stay the execution of the determination to be
reviewed, or affect the power of the body or officer, to which or to whom it is
addressed. The court, which grants the writ, may, in its discretion, and
upon such terms, as to security or otherwise, as justice requires, direct, by a
clause in the writ, or by a separate order, that the execution of the deter
mination be stayed, pending the certiorari, and until the further direction
of the court. A bond, undertaking, or other security, given to procure such
a stay, is valid and effectual, according to its terms, in favor of a person
beneficially interested in upholding the determination to be reviewed, who
is admitted as a party to the special proceeding, as prescribed in section
2137 of this act.
§ 2132. When and where writ returnable. A writ of certiorari must
be made returnable, within twenty days after the service thereof, at the office
of the clerk of the court. If it was issued from the supreme court, it must
be made returnable at the office of the clerk of the county, designated therein,
wherein the determination to be reviewed was made ; and if the county,
designated in the writ, is not the proper county, the court, upon motion, may
amend the writ accordingly. Thereupon all papers on file must be trans
ferred to the clerk of the county, where the writ is made returnable by the
amendment.
§ 2133. Subsequent proceedings as in an action. After a writ of cer
tiorari has been issued, the time to make a return thereto may be enlarged,
or any other order may be made, or proceeding taken, in the cause, in rela
tion to any matter not provided for in this article, as a similar proceeding
may be taken in an action, brought in the same court, and triable in the
county where the writ is returnable.
§ 2134. Return ; when and how made The clerk, with whom a writ of
certiorari is filed, and each person, upon whom a writ of certiorari is served,
as prescribed in section 2130 of this act, must make and annex to the writ,
or to the copy thereof served upon him, a return, with a transcript annexed,
and certified by him, of the record or proceedings, and a statement of the
other matters, specified in and required by the writ. The return must be
filed in the office where the writ is returnable, according to the command
thereof.
§ 2135. Id. ; how compelled ; fees for making. If a return is defective,
the court may direct a further return. An omission to make a return, as
required by a writ of certiorari, or by an order for a further return, may be
punished as a contempt of the court. But a judge or clerk shall not be thus
punished unless the relator, before the time when the return is required,
pays him, for his return, the sum of two dollars, and, in addition, ten cents
for each folio of the copies of papers required to be returned.
§ 2136. Id. ; after term of office expired. A writ of certiorari may be
issued to, and a return to a writ of certiorari may be made by, an officer,
whose term of office has expired. Such an officer may be punished for a
failure to make a return to the writ, as required thereby; or to make a
further return, as required by an order for that purpose.
§ 2137. When third person may be brought in. Upon the application
of a person, specially and beneficially interested in upholding the determi
nation to be reviewed, the court may, in its discretion, admit him as a party
defendant in the special proceeding, upon such terms as justice requires.
And a general term of the court, at which the cause is noticed for hearing,
and is placed upon the calendar, may, in a proper case, direct that notice of
the pendency of the special proceeding be given to any person, in such a
manner as it thinks proper, and may suspend the hearing until notice is
given accordingly.
§ 2138. Hearing upon return. The cause must be heard at a general
term of the court. In the supreme court, it must be heard at a general
term, held within the judicial department, embracing the county where the
writ was returnable. Either party may notice it for hearing, at any time
after the return is complete. Except as prescribed in the next section, it
must be heard upon the writ and return, and the papers upon which the
writ was granted.
§ 2139. Id. ; upon affidavits. If the officer or other person, whose duty it
is to make a return, dies, absconds, removes from the State, or becomes
insane, after the writ is issued, and before making a return, or after making an insufficient return ; and it appears that there is no other officer or
person, from whom a sufficient return can be procured by means of a new
certiorari ; the court may, in its discretion, permit affidavits, or other written
proofs, relating to the matters not sufficiently returned, to be produced, and
may hear the cause accordingly. The court may also, in its discretion,
permit either party to produce affidavits, or other written proofs, relating to
any alleged error of fact, or any other question of fact, which is essential to
the jurisdiction of the body or officer, to make the determination to be
reviewed, where the facts, in relation thereto, are not sufficiently stated
in the return, and the court is satisfied that they cannot be made to appear,
by means of an order for a further return.
§ 2140. Questions to be determined. The questions, involving the
merits, to be determined by the court upon the hearing, are the following,
only:
1. Whether the body or officer had jurisdiction of the subject-matter of
the determination under review.
2. Whether the authority, conferred upon the body or officer, in relation
to that subject-matter, has been pursued in the mode required by law, in
order to authorize it or him to make the determination.
3. Whether, in making the determination, any rule of law, affecting the
rights of the parties thereto, has been violated, to the prejudice of the
relator.
4. Whether there was any competent proof of all the facts, necessary to
be proved, in order to authorize the making of the determination.
5. If there was such proof, whether there was, upon all the evidence, such
a preponderance of proof, against the existence of any of those facte, that
the verdict of a jury, affirming the existence thereof, rendered in an action
in the supreme court, triable by a jury, would be set aside by the court, aa
against the weight of evidence.
§ 2141. Final order upon the hearing. The court, upon the hearing,
may make a final order, annulling or confirming, wholly or partly, or modi
fying, the determination reviewed, as to any or all of the parties.
§ 2142. Restitution may be awarded Where the determination reviewed is annulled or modified, the court may order and enforce restitution,
in like manner, with like effect and subject to the same conditions, as where
a judgment is reversed upon appeal.
§ 2143. Costs. Costs, not exceeding fifty dollars and disbursements, may
be awarded by the final order, in favor of or against either party, in the
discretion of the court.
§ 2144. Entry and enrollment of final order. The final order of the
court upon the certiorari must be entered in the office of the clerk where the
writ was returnable. But before it can be enforced, an enrollment thereof
must be filed. For that purpose, the clerk must attach together, and file in
his office, the papers upon which the cause was heard ; a certified copy of
the final order; and a certified copy of each order, which in any way
involves the merits, or necessarily affects the final order.
§ 2145. Effect thereof The filing of the enrollment in the office of the
clerk where the final order is entered, as prescribed in the last section, is a
sufficient authority for any proceeding, by or before the body which, or the
officer who, made the determination reviewed, which the final order of the
' court directs or permits. But where the execution of the final order is
stayed by au appeal to the court of appeals, the proceedings below are
stayed in like manner.
§ 2146. " Body or officer ; " " determination ; " what they include.
The expression, " body or officer," as used in this article, includes every
court, tribunal, board, corporation or other person, or aggregation of per
sons, whose determination may be reviewed by a writ of certiorari ; and the
word " determination," as used in this article, includes every judgment,
order, decision, adjudication, or other act of such a body or officer, which is
subject to be so reviewed.
§ 2147. Application of this article to certain special cases. Where
the right to a writ of certiorari is expressly conferred, or the issuing thereof
is expressly authorized, by a statute, passed before, and remaining in force
after, this article takes effect, this article does not vary, or affect in any
manner, any provision of the former statute, which expressly prescribes a
different regulation, with respect to any of the proceedings upon the certio
rari to be issued thereunder.
§ 2148. Id ; to civil cases only. This article is not applicable to a writ
of certiorari, brought to review a determination made in any criminal
matter, except a criminal contempt of court.
§ 2149. Who may be discharged An insolvent debtor, who is a resi
dent of the State at the time of presenting his petition, may be discharged
from his debts, as prescribed in this article.
§ 2150. To what court application to be made. Application for such
a discharge must be made, by the petition of the insolvent, addressed to
the county court of the county in which he resides ; or, if he resides in the
city of New York, to the court of common pleas for that city and county.
§ 2151. Contents of petition The petition must be in writing; it
must be signed by the insolvent, and specify his residence ; it must set
forth, in substance, that he is unable to pay all his debts in full ; that he
is willing to assign his property for the benefit of all his creditors, and in all
other respects, to comply with the provisions of this article, for the purpose
of being discharged from his debts ; and it must pray that, upon his so
doing, he may be discharged accordingly. It must be verified by the affi
davit of the insolvent, annexed thereto, taken on the day of the presenta
tion thereof, to the effect, that the petition is in all respects true, in matter
of fact.
•
§ 2152. Consent of creditors to be annexed The petitioner must
annex to his petition one or more written instruments, executed by one or
more of his creditors, residing in the United States, having debts owing to
him or them in good faith, then due or thereafter to become due, which
amount to not less than two-thirds of all the debts, owing by the petitioner
to creditors residing within the United States. Each instrument must be to
the effect, that the person or corporation, executing it, consents to the dis
charge of the petitioner from his debts, upon his complying with the provis
ions of this article.
§ 2153. Consent of executor, administrator, receiver, etc. An
executor or administrator may become a consenting creditor, under the
order of the surrogate's court from which his letters issued. A trustee,
official assignee, or receiver of the property of a creditor of the petitioner,
whether created by operation of law, or by the act of parties, may become a
consenting creditor, under the order of a justice of the supreme court. A
person who becomes a consenting creditor, as prescribed in this section, is
chargeable only for the sum which he actually receives, as a dividend of the
insolvent's property.
§ 2154. Id. ; of corporation, etc. Where a corporation or joint-stock
association becomes a consenting creditor, its consent must be executed
under its common seal, and may be attested by any director or other officer
thereof, duly authorized for that purpose ; who may make any affidavit,
required of a creditor in the proceedings.
§ 2155. Id. ; of partnership. Where a partnership becomes a consent
ing creditor, the consent may be executed in its behalf, and any affidavit,
required of a creditor in the proceedings, may be made, by either of the
partners.
§ 2156. Effect of consent where petitioner is a joint debtor. A
creditor's consent does not affect his remedy against any person or persons
indebted jointly with the petitioner ; and the petitioner's discharge has the
effect, as between the creditor and the other joint debtors, of a composition
between the petitioner and the creditor, made as prescribed in article third
of title fifth of chapter fifteenth of this act.
§ 2157. Consent of purchaser of debt, etc. Where a consenting
creditor is the purchaser or assignee of a debt against the petitioner, or the
executor, administrator, trustee, or receiver of such a purchaser or assignee,
he is deemed, for all the purposes of this article, except as to the declara
tion and receipt of dividends, a creditor only to the amount, actually and
in good faith paid for the debt, by him, or by the decedent or other person,
from whom he derives title, and remaining uncollected. This section is not
affected by the recovery of a judgment for the debt, after the purchase or
assignment, but in that case, the consenting creditor may include the
uncollected costs, as if they were part of the sum paid for the debt.
§ 2158. Consenting creditor must relinquish security. A creditor
who has, in his own name, or in trust for him, a mortgage, judgment, or
other security, for the payment of a sum of money, which is a lien upon, or
otherwise affects, real or personal property belonging to the petitioner, or
transferred by him since the lien was created, cannot become a consenting
creditor, with respect to the debt so secured, unless he adds to or includes in
his consent, a written declaration, under his hand, to the effect, that he
relinquishes the mortgage, judgment, or other security, so far as it affects
that property, to the trustee to be appointed pursuant to the petition, for the
benefit of all the creditors. Such a declaration operates, to that extent, as
an assignment to the trustee, of the mortgage, judgment, or other security ;
and vests in him accordingly all the right and interest of the consenting
creditor therein.
§ 2159. Penalty if creditor swears falsely. If a creditor knowingly
swears, in any proceedings authorized by this article, that the petitioner is,
or will become, indebted to him, in a sum of money, which is not really due,
or thereafter to become due ; or in more than the true amount ; or that, more
was paid for a debt, which was purchased or assigned, than the sum, actually
and in good faith pay therefore ; he forfeits to the trustee, to be recovered in
an action, twice the sum, so falsely sworn to.
§ 2160. Affidavit of consenting creditors. The consent of a creditor
must be accompanied with his affidavit, stating as follows :
1. That the petitioner is justly indebted to him, or will become indebted
to him, at a future day specified therein, in a sum therein specified ; and, if
he, or the person from whom he derives title, is or was the purchaser or
assignee of the debt, he must also specify the sum, actually and in good
faith pay for the debt, as prescribed in section 2157 of this act.
2. The nature of the demand, and whether it arose upon written security,
or otherwise, with the general ground or consideration of the indebtedness.
3. That neither he, nor any person to his use, has received from the peti
tioner, or from any other person, payment of a demand, or any part thereof,
in money or in any other way, or any gift or reward of any kind, upon an
express or implied trust, confidence, or understanding, that he should con
sent to the discharge of the petitioner.
Where a consenting creditor is an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver,
or assignee, he may state the necessary facts, in his affidavit, upon informa
tion and belief, setting forth therein the grounds of his belief; but in that
case, the consent must also be accompanied with the affidavit of the insolv
ent, to the effect, that all the matters of fact stated in the affidavit of the
consenting creditor, are true.
§ 2161. When non-resident creditor to annex account, etc. A con
senting creditor, residing without the State, and within the United States,
must annex to his consent the original accounts, or sworn copies thereof, and
the original specialities or other written securities, if any, upon which his
demand arose or depends.
§2162. Petitioner's schedule. The petitioner must annex to his petition
a schedule, containing :
1. A full and true account of all his creditors.
2. A statement of the place of residence of each creditor, if it is known ;
or, if it is not known, a statement of that fact.
3. A statement of the sum which he owes to each creditor, and the nature
of each debt or demand, whether arising or written security, on account, or
otherwise.
4. A statement of the true cause and consideration of his indebtedness to
each creditor, and the place where the indebtedness accrued.
5. A statement of any existing judgment, mortgage, or collateral or other
security, for the payment of the debt.
6. A full and true inventory of all his property, in law or in equity, of the
encumbrances existing thereon, and of all the books, vouchers, and securi
ties, relating thereto.
8 2163. His affidavit. An affidavit, in the following form, subscribed
and taken by the petitioner before the county judge, or, in the city of New
York, before the judge holding the term of the court, at which the order
specified in the next section is made, must be annexed to the schedule :
" I,
, do swear " (or " affirm," as the case may be), " that the matters
of fact, stated in the schedule hereto annexed, are, in all respects, just and
true ; that I have not, at any time or in any manner whatsoever, disposed of
or made over any part of my property, not exempt by express provision of
law from levy and sale by virtue of an execution, for the future benefit
of myself or my family, or disposed of or made over any part of my prop
erty, in order to defraud any of my creditors; that I have not, in any
instance, created or acknowledged a debt for a greater sum than I honestly
and truly owned ; and that I have not paid, secured to be paid, or in any
way compounded with, any of my creditors, with a view fraudulently to
obtain the prayer of my petition.'
§ 2164. Order to show cause. The petition and other papers, specified
in the foregoing sections of this article, must be presented to the court, and
filed with the clerk. The court must thereupon make an order, requiring
all the creditors of the petitioner to show cause before it, at a time and place
therein specified, why an assignment of the insolvent's property should not
be made, and he be thereupon discharged from his debts, as prescribed in
this article ; and directing that the order be published and served, as pre
scribed in the next section.
§ 2165. How order published and served The order must be pub
lished and served in the following manner :
1. The petitioner must cause a copy thereof to be published in the news
paper printed at Albany, in which legal notices are required by law to be
published; and in a newspaper, designated in the order, published in the
county; and also, if one-fourth part of the insolvent's debts accrued, or are
due, to creditors residing in the city of New York, in a newspaper published
in that city, designated in the order. The publication must be made, at
least once in each of the ten weeks, immediately preceding the day on which
cause is to be shown, unless all the creditors reside within one hundred miles
of the place where cause is to be shown ; in which case, the publication must
be made, at least once in each of the six weeks, immediately preceding
that day.
2. The petitioner must also serve upon each creditor, residing within the
United States, whose place of residence is known to him, a copy of the order
to show cause, either personally, at least twenty days before the day when
cause is to be shown, or by depositing it, at least forty days before that day,
in the post-office, inclosed in a post-paid wrapper, addressed to the creditor
at his usual place of residence.
Where the State is a creditor of the petitioner, a copy of the order must
be served upou the Attorney-General, who must represent the State in the
subsequent proceedings.
§ 2166. Hearing. On the day specified in the order, and before any
other proceedings are taken in the matter, the petitioner must present to
the court, and file with the clerk, proof, to the satisfaction of the court, that
the order has been published and served, as prescribed in the last section ;
and thereupon, on the same day, or upon the day to which the hearing is
adjourned, the court must "hear the allegations and proofs of the parties
appearing. Proof of personal service of a copy of the order upon any per
son, must be made, in like manner as proof of personal service of a sum
mons, in an action brought in the supreme court.
§ 2167. Putting cause on calendar. Where the insolvent's discharge is
opposed, the court may direct the special proceeding to be placed upou the
calendar for trial. In that case, the parties must appear, and. the proceed
ings are the same, as in an action, except as otherwise prescribed in this
article ; and costs, as in an action, except for proceedings before notice of
trial, may be awarded to either party, in the discretion of the court.
§ 2168. Opposing creditor to file specifications, and may demand
jury trial. In order to entitle a creditor to oppose the discharge of the
insolvent, he must, on the day fixed to show cause, or at such other time as
the court directs, file with the clerk a specification of his objections ; and he
may then, but not afterwards, demand a trial, by a jury, of the questions
of facts arising thereupon. If a trial by a jury is not then demanded, the
questions of facts must be tried by the court, without a jury. Where one
of two or more opposing creditors demands a trial by a jury, all the material
questions of fact, arising upon the objections of all the creditors, must be
tried in like manner, and at the same time. The court may, in itsdiscretion, direct the questions to be settled, and plainly stated, in an order,
as where an order is made by the supreme court, in an action pending
therein, for the trial of questions of fact by a jury.
§ 2169. Id. ; to file proofs, if not named in schedule. Where the
name of an opposing creditor does not appear in the schedule, he must file,
with the specification of his objections, proof, by affidavit, that he is a cred
itor ; and, if his debts is not set forth in the schedule, he must also file his
affidavit, to the effect specified in subdivisions first and second of section
2160 of this act.
§ 2170. Proceedings if jurors do not agree. There shall be but one
trial by jury. If the jurors cannot agree, after being kept together for such
a time as the court deems reasonable, the court must discharge them, and
determine the questions of fact, or those questions as to which the jurors
have not agreed, upon the evidence taken before the jury, as if a jury had
not been demanded.
2171. When insolvent required to produce his non-resident wife.
ere the petitioner's wife resides without the State, the court, or a judge
thereof out of court, may, upon the application of any creditor, make an
order, requiring the petitioner to bring his wife before the court, at the
hearing or trial, to the end that she may be examined as a witness. A copy
of the order must be personally served upon the petitioner, at least three
weeks before the hearing. If it appears, upon the hearing, that service
could not, with due diligence, be so made, in consequence of the petitioner's
sickness or absence, the court may, in its discretion, adjourn the hearing or
trial, and prescribe the time and mariner of service of the order for the
adjourned day. If, after due service, the petitioner's wife does not attend
at the time and place appointed, the petitioner is not entitled to his dis
charge, unless he proves, to the satisfaction of the court, by his affidavit, or
upon his oral examination, or otherwise, that he was unable to procure her
attendance.
§ 2172. Examination of insolvent At the hearing or trial, the peti
tioner must be examined under oath, at the instance of any creditor, touch
ing his property or debts, or any other matter stated in his schedule, or any
changes that have occurred in the situation of his property, since the mak
ing of the schedule ; and particularly whether he has collected any debts or
demands, or made any transfers of, or otherwise affected, his real or per
sonal property. Any creditor may contradict or impeach, by other compe
tent evidence, the testimony of the insolvent, or of his wife.
§ 2173. When insolvent, cannot be discharged. In either of the fol
lowing cases, the petitioner is not entitled to a discharge :
1. Where it appears, upon the hearing or trial, that, after making the
schedule annexed to his petition, he has collected, a debt or demand, or
transferred, absolutely, conditionally, or otherwise, any of his property, not
exempt by law from levy and sale by virtue of an execution, and he neglects
or refuses forthwith to pay over to the clerk, the full amount of all debts and
demands so collected, and the full value of all property so transferred, except
so much of the money, and of the value of the property, as appears to have
been necessarily expended by him for the support of himself or his family.
2. Where it appears, in like manner, that the petitioner, within two years
before presenting the petition, has, in contemplation of his becoming insol
vent, or of his petitioning for his discharge, or knowing of his insolvency,
made an assignment, sale, or transfer, either absolute or conditional, of any
of his property, or of any interest therein, or confessed a judgment, or given
any security, with a view of giving a preference to a creditor for an ante
cedent debt.
§ 2174. When assignment to be directed. An order, directing the
execution of an assignment, must be made by the court, where it appears,
by the verdict of the jury ; or, if a jury has not been demanded, or the
jurors have been discharged by reason of their inability to agree, where it
satisfactorily appears to the court ; as follows :
1. That the petitioner is justly and truly indebted to the consenting
creditors, in sums which amount, in the aggregate, to two-thirds of all the
debts, which the petitioner owed, at the time of presenting his petition, to
creditors residing within the United States.
2. That he has honestly and fairly given a true account of his property.
3. That he has, in all things, conformed to the matters required of him by
this article.
§ 2175. Assignment ; contents, and to whom made. The order must
designate one or more trustees, residents of the State ; and must direct the
petitioner to execute, to him or them, an assignment of all his property, at
law or in equity, in possession, reversion, or remainder, excepting only so
much thereof, as is exempt by law from levy and sale, by virtue of an execu
tion. The assignment must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in
like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county, and must be recorded
in the clerk's office of the county. Where it appears, from the schedule or
otherwise, that real property will pass thereby, it must be also recorded as
a deed, in the proper office for recording deeds, of each county where the
real property is situated.
§ 2176. Id. ; trustees, how designated. The trustee or trustees maybe
nominated by a majority in amount of the consenting creditors. If no per
son is so nominated, one or more persons must be appointed by the court for
the purpose. The nomination may be included in the consent, or made in a
separate paper, or orally upon the hearing or trial, and entered in the minutes.
§ 2177. Effect of assignment. The assignment vests in the .rustee or
trustees all the petitioner's interest, legal or equitable, at. the time of its
execution, in any real or personal property, not exempt by law from levy
and sale by virtue of an execution ; and any contingent interest which may
vest within three years thereafter. When a contingent interest so vests, it
passes to the trustee, in the same manner as it would have vested in the
petitioner, if he had not made an assignment.
§ 2178. When discharge to be granted. Upon the production by the
petitioner of a certificate of the trustee or trustees, duly acknowledged or
proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county,
to the effect that the insolvent has assigned, for the benefit of all his cred
itors, all his property so directed to be assigned, and all the books, vouchers,
and papers relating thereto, and that he has delivered so much thereof as is
capable of delivery ; and also of a certificate of the county clerk, that the
assignment has been duly recorded in his office ; the court must grant to the
insolvent a discharge from his debts, which has the effect declared in the
following sections of this article.
§ 2179. Proceedings where trustee refuses to give certificate, etc.
If a trustee refuses or neglects, upon payment or tender by the petitioner
of the expense of so doing, to execute or acknowledge a certificate, as pre
scribed in the last section, or to cause the assignment to be recorded, as
therein prescribed, the court, upon proof by affidavit of the facts, must make
an order, requiring the trustee to show cause, at a time and place therein
specified, wliy the petitioner should not be discharged, notwithstanding his
neglect or refusal ; and why the trustee's appointment should not be revoked.
§ 2180. The same. If, upon the return of the order, it appears that the as
signment has been duly executed, and that the petitioner has duly delivered
all his property directed to be assigned, and all the books, vouchers, and pa
pers relating thereto, which are capable of delivery, the court may, either
1. Grant a discharge of the petitioner, notwithstanding the neglect or re
fusal of the trustee ; or
2. Make an order revoking the appointment of the trustee. Upon the
entry of such an order, the powers of the trustee, and his interest in the
assigned property cease.
the same or another order, appoint one or more new trustees. Such an
appointment has the same effect, as if the person or persons so appointed
were named as trustees in the original assignment.
§ 2181. Discharge, etc., to be recorded. The discharge, and the peti
tion, affidavits, orders, schedule, and other papers, upon which the discharge
is granted, exclusive of the minutes of testimony, must be recorded in the
clerk's office of the county, within three months after the discharge is granted.
In default thereof, the discharge becomes inoperative, from and after that
time. The original discharge, the record thereof, or a transcript of the record
duly authenticated, is conclusive evidence of the proceedings and facts
therein contained. The other papers specified in this section, the record
thereof, or a transcript of the record duly authenticated, are presumptive
evidence of the proceedings and facts therein contained.
§ 2182. Effect of discharge. Except as prescribed in the next two sec
tions, a discharge, granted as prescribed in this article, exonerates and dis
charges the petitioner from every debt, due at the time when he executed
his assignment, including a debt contracted before that time, though payable
afterwards, and from every liability incurred by him, by making or endors
ing a promissory note, or by accepting, drawing, or indorsing a bill of ex
change, before the execution of his assignment, or incurred by him, in con
sequence of the payment, by any party to such a note or bill, of the whole
or any part of the money secured thereby, whether the payment is made
before or after the execution of the assignment. At any lime after one year
has elapsed, since the recording of the discharge, and the petition, affidavits, orders,
schedule and other papers upon which the discharge was granted, as prescribed in
section twenty-one hundred and eighty-one of this act, the petitioner may apply,
upon proof of his discharge, to the court in which a judgment shall have been ren
dered against him, for an order directing the judgment to be cancelled and dis
charged of record. If it appears that he has been discharged from the payment
of that judgment, an order must be made accordingly, and thereupon the clerk
must cancel and discharge the docket thereof, as if the proper satisfaction piece of
the judgment was filed. Notice of the application, accompanied with copies of the
papers upon which it is made, must be given to the judgment creditor, unless his
written consent to the granting of the order, with satisfactory proof of the execu
tion thereof, and if he is not the party in whose favor the judgment was rendered,
that he is the owner thereof, is presented to the court upon the application. [Am'd
Ch. 402 of 1883.]
§ 2183. Id.; exception as to foreign contracts or creditors. In either
of the following cases, such a discharge does not affect a debt or liability,
founded upon a contract, unless it was owing, when the petition was pre
sented to a resident of the State ; or the creditor has executed a consent to
the discharge ; or has appeared in the proceedings ; or has received a divi
dend from the trustee :
1. Where the contract was made with a person, not a resident of the State.
2. Where it was made and to be performed without the State.
3. Where the creditor was not at the time of the discharge, a resident of
the State.
§ 2184. Id. ; as to debts, etc., to the United States and the State.
Such a discharge does not affect :
1. A debt or duty to the United States ; or
2. A debt or duty to the State, for taxes or for money received or collected
by any person as a public officer, or in a fiduciary capacity, or a cause of
action specified in section 1969 of this act, or a judgment recovered upon
such a cause of action.
Except as prescribed in this section, the discharge exonerates the peti
tioner from a debt or other liability to the State, in like manner and to the
same extent, as from a debt or liability to an individual.
§ 2185. Insolvent to be released from imprisonment. If, at the time
when the discharge is granted, the petitioner is under arrest, by virtue of
an execution against his person issued, or an order of arrest made, in an
action or special proceeding, founded upon a debt or liability from which he
is discharged, as prescribed in the foregoing sections of this article, he must
be released from the arrest, upon producing to the officer his discharge, or a
certified copy of the record thereof. If the adverse party wishes to test the
validity of the discharge, he may procure a new order of arrest, or cause a
new execution to be issued, as the case requires.
§ 2186. Discharge ; when void. A discharge, granted as prescribed in
this article, is void, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the petitioner willfully swears falsely, in the affidavit annexed
to his petition or schedule, or upon his examination, in relation to any ma
terial fact, concerning his property or his debts, or to any other material fact.
2. Where, after presenting his petition, he sells, or in any way transfers
or assigns, any of his property, or collects any debt or demand owing to
him, and does not give a just and true account thereof, upon the hearing or
trial, and does not pay the money so collected, or the value of the property
so sold, transferred, or assigned, as prescribed in this article.
3. Where he secretes any part of his property, or a book, voucher, or paper
relating thereto, with intent to defraud his creditors.
4. Where he fraudulently conceals the name of any creditor, or the sum
owing to any creditor, or fraudulently misstates such a sum.
5. Where, in order to obtain his discharge, he procures any person to be
come a consenting creditor, for a sum not due from him to that person in
good faith, or for a sum greater than that for which the holder of a demand,
purchased or assigned, is deemed a creditor, as prescribed in this article.
6. Where he pays or consents to the payment of any portion of the debt
or demand of a creditor, or grants or cousents to the granting of any gift or
reward to a creditor, upon an express or implied contract, trust, or under
standing, that the creditor so paid or rewarded should be a consenting
creditor, or should abstain or desist from opposing the discharge.
7. Where he is guilty of any fraud whatsoever, contrary to the true intent
of this article.
§ 2187. Invalidity may be proved on motion to vacate order of ar
rest. Where a persoti, who has been discharged as prescribed in this
article, is afterwards arrested by virtue of an order of arrest made, or an
execution issued, in an action founded upon a debt or liability from which he
is so discharged, the adverse party may oppose his application to be released
from the arrest, by proof, by affidavit, of any cause for avoiding the discharge,
for want of jurisdiction or as specified in the last section. If such a cause
is established, the application must be denied.
§ 2188. Who may be exempted, and by what court. An insolvent
debtor may be exempted from arrest, or discharged from imprisonment, as
prescribed in this article. For that purpose, he must apply, by petition, to
the county court of the county in which he resides, or is imprisoned ; or, if
he resides or is imprisoned in the city of New York, to the court of common
pleas for that city and county. A person who has been admitted to the
jail liberties, is deemed to be imprisoned, within the meaning of this article.
§ 2189. Contents of petition The petition must be in writing ; it must
be signed by the insolvent, and specify his residence, and also, that he is in
prison, the county in which he is imprisoned, and the cause of his imprison
ment. It must set forth, in substance, that he is unable to pay all his
debts in full ; that he is willing to assign his property for the benefit of all
his creditors, and in all other respects to comply with the provisions of this
article, for the purpose of being exempted from arrest and imprisonment, as
prescribed therein ; and it must pray, that upon his so doing, he may there
after be exempted from arrest, by reason of a debt, arising upon a contract
previously made ; and also, if he is imprisoned, that he may be discharged
from his imprisonment. It must be verified by the affidavit of the insolvent,
annexed thereto, taken on the day of the presentation thereof, to the effect,
that the petition is in all respects true in matter of fact.
§ 2190. Petitioner's schedule. The petitioner must annex to his peti
tion, a schedule, in all respects similar to that required of an insolvent, as
prescribed in section 2162 of this act.
§ 2191. His affidavit. An affidavit in the following form, suoscribed
and taken by the petitioner, before the county judge, or, in the city of New
York, before the judge holding the term of the court at which the order
specified in the next section is made, must be annexed to the schedule :
" I,
, do swear" (or " affirm, " as the case may be,) "that the matters
of fact, stated in the schedule hereto annexed, are, in all respects, just and
true ; that I have not, at any time, or in any manner whatsoever, disposed
of or made over any part of my property, not exempt by express provision
of law from levy and sale by virtue of an execution, for the future benefit of
myself or my family, or disposed of or made over any part of my property
in order to defraud any of my creditors ; and that I have not paid, secured
to be paid, or in any way compounded with, any of my creditors, with a
view that they or any of them should abstain from opposing my discharge."
§ 2192. Order to show cause. The petition, and the papers annexed
thereto, must be presented to the court, and filed with the clerk. The court
must thereupon make an order, requiring all the creditors of the petitioner
to show cause before it, at a time and piace therein specified, why the prayer
of the petitioner should not be granted; and directing that the order be
published and served, in the manner prescribed in section 2165 of this act,
for the publication and service of an order, made as therein prescribed.
§ 2193. Hearing, etc. The provisions of sections 2166, 2167, 2168, 2169,
2170, 2172, and 2173 of this act, apply to a special proceeding, taken as pre
scribed in this article.
§ 2194. Order directing assignment ; assignment pursuant thereto.
An order, directing the execution of an assignment, must be made by the
court, where it appears, by the verdict of the jury, or, if a jury has not been
demanded, or the jurors have been discharged by reason of their inability
to agree, where it satisfactorily appears to the court, as follows:
1. That the petitioner is unable to pay his debts.
2. That the schedule annexed to the petition is true.
3. That he has not been guilty of any fraud or concealment, in violation
of the provisions of this article.
4. That he has, in all things, conformed to the matters required of him by
this article.
The provisions of sections 2175, 2176, and 2177 of this act apply to the
order prescribed in this section, and to the assignment made in pursuance
thereof, except that the trustee or trustees must be nominated, as well as
appointed, by the court.
§ 2195. When discharge to be granted ; effect thereof. Upon the
production by the i etitioner, of the certificates of the trustee or trustees, and
the county clerk, to the effect prescribed in section 2178 of this act, the court
must grant to the petitioner a discharge, declaring that the petitioner is for
ever thereafter exempted from arrest or imprisonment, by reason of any debt
due at the time of making the assignment, or contracted before that time,
though payable afterwards ; or by reason of any liability incurred by him,
by making or indorsing a promissory note, or by accepting, drawing, or
indorsing a bill of exchange, before the execution of the assignment ; or in
consequence of the payment, by any party to such note or bill, of the whole
or any part of the money secured thereby, whether the payment is made
before or after the execution of the assignment, with the exceptions specified
in section 2218 of this act. The discharge shall have the effect therein
declared, as prescribed in this section
§ 2196. Discharge to be recorded, eta The provisions of section 2181
of this act apply to the discharge, and to the petition and other papers upon
which it was granted.
§ 2197. Petitioner to be released from imprisonment. If, at the time
when the discharge is granted, the petitioner is imprisoned, by virtue of an
execution against his person issued, or of an order of arrest made, in an
action or special proceeding founded upon a debt, liability, or judgment, as
to which he is exempted from arrest or imprisonment, as prescribed in the
last section but one, the officer must forthwith release him, on production of
the discharge, or a certified copy of the record thereof.
§ 2198. Debts not affected, etc. A debt, demand, judgment, or decree,
against an insolvent, discharged as prescribed in this article, is not affected
or impaired by the discharge ; but it remains valid and effectual, against
all his property, acquired after the execution of the assignment. The lien,
acquired by or under a judgment or decree, upon any property of the insol
vent, is not affected by the discharge.
§ 2199. Discharge, when void. A discharge, granted to an insolvent as
prescribed in this article, is void in the same cases, so far as they are
applicable, in which a discharge, granted as prescribed in article first of
this title, is therein declared to be void ; and the validity of such a dis
charge may be tested in the same manner.
Who may be discharged.
To what court application to be made.
When petition may be presented.
Contents of petition ; schedule.
Affidavit of petitioner.
Notice to creditors.
Id. ; when service cannot be made.
Id. ; when State a creditor.
Proceedings on presentation of petition.
Adjournment.
Proceedings on adjourned day.
Assignment ; effect thereof.
Discharge ; when to be granted.
Petitioner's property still liable.
When creditor may issue new execution against person.
Powers and duties of trustee.
Creditor may notify debtor to apply for discharge.
Effect of failure so to apply.
Debtor to United States, etc., not to be discharged.

§ 2200. Who may be discharged. A person imprisoned by virtue of
an execution to collect a sum of money, issued in a civil action or special
proceeding, may be discharged from the imprisonment, as prescribed in this
article. A person who has been admitted to the jail liberties, is deemed to
be imprisoned, within the meaning of this article.
§ 2201. To what court application to be made. Application for such
a discharge must be made by petition, addressed to the court from which
the execution issued ; or to the county court of the county in which he is im
prisoned ; or, if he is imprisoned in the city of New York, to the court of
common pleas for that city and county.
§ 2202. When petition maybe presented A person so imprisoned
may apply for such a discharge, at any time ; unless the sum, or, where he
is imprisoned by virtue of two or more executions, the aggregate of the sums,
for which he is imprisoned, exceeds five hundred dollars ; in which case, he
cannot present such a petition, until he has been imprisoned, by virtue of
the execution or executions, for at least three months.
| 2203 Contents of petition ; schedule. The petition must be in
writing ; it must be signed by the petitioner ; and it must state the cause of
his imprisonment, by setting forth a copy, or the substance, of the execution,
or, if there are two or more executions, of each of them. The petitioner
must annex thereto, and present therewith, a schedule, containing a just and
true account of all his property, and of all charges affecting the same ; as the
property and charges existed at the time when he was first imprisoned, and
also as they exist at the time when the petition is prepared ; together with a
just and true account of all deeds, securities, books, vouchers, and papers,
relating to the property, and to the charges thereupon.
§ 2204. Affidavit of petitioner. An affidavit, in the following form,
subscribed aud taken by the petitioner, on the day of the presentation of the
petition, must be annexed to the petition and schedule :
" I,
, do swear" (or " affirm," as the case may be,) " that the matters
of fact, stated in the petition and schedule hereto annexed, are, in all
respects, just and true ; and that I have not, at any time or in any manner
whatsoever, disposed of or made over any part of my property, not exempt
by express provision of law from levy and sale by virtue of an execution, for
the future benefit of myself or my family, or disposed of or made over any
part of my property, with intent to injure or defraud any of my creditors.
§ 2205. Notice to creditors. At least fourteen days before the petition
is presented, the petitioner must serve, upon the creditor in each execution,
by virtue of which he is imprisoned, a copy of the petition, and of the
schedule ; together with a written notice of the time when, and place where,
they will be presented. If, by reason of changes occurring after the service,
it is necessary, before presenting the petition and schedule, to correct any
statement contained in the schedule, the correction may be made by a sup
plemental schedule, a copy of which need not be served, unless the court so
directs.
§ 2206. Id ; when service cannot be made. The papers, specified in
the last section, may be served, either upon the creditor or his representa
tive, or upon the attorney whose name is subscribed to the execution ; and,
in either case, in the manner prescribed in this act for the service of a paper
upon an attorney, in an action in the supreme court. Where it is made to
appear, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, that service cannot, with
due diligence, be so made within the State, upon either, the court may make
an order, prescribing the mode of service, or directing the publication of a
notice in lieu of service, in such a manner and for such a length of time, as
it thinks proper; and thereupon, it may direct an adjournment of the hear
ing to such a time as it thinks proper.
§ 2207. Id ; when State a creditor. Where the State is a creditor, the
papers must be served upon the Attorney-General, who must represent the
State in the proceedings.
§ 2208. Proceedings on presentation of petition. Upon the presenta
tion of the petition, schedule, and affidavit, with due proof of service or pub
lication, as prescribed in the last three sections, the court must make an
order, directing the petitioner to be brought before it, on a day designated
therein ; and on that day, or on such other days as it appoints, the court
must, in a summary way, hear the allegations and proofs of the parties. If
the court is satisfied that the petition and schedule are correct, and that the
petitioner's proceedings are just and fair, it must make an order, directing
the petitioner to execute, to one or more trustees, designated in the order,
an assignment of all his property, not expressly exempt by law from levy
and sale by virtue of an execution ; or of so much thereof as is sufficient to
satisfy the execution or executions, by virtue of which he is imprisoned,
§ 2209. Adjournment. Upon sufficient cause being shown by a creditor,
the court niay, from time to time, adjourn the hearing ; but not to a day
later than three months after the presentation of the petition.
§ 2210. Proceedings on adjourned day. An objection to a matter of
form shall not be received upon an adjourned day ; and, unless the opposing
creditor satisfies the court that the proceedings on the part of the petitioner
are not just and fair, the court must direct an assignment, as prescribed in
the last section but one, and must grant a discharge, as prescribed in the
following sections of this article.
§ 2211. Assignment ; effect thereof The assignment must be acknowl
edged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in
the county, and must be recorded in the clerk's office of the county where
the petitioner is imprisoned. Where it appears from the schedule or other
wise, that real property will pass thereby, the assignment must also be
recorded as a deed, in the proper office for recording deeds of each county
where the real property is situated. The assignment vests in the trustee or
trustees, for the benefit of the judgment creditors in the executions, by virtue
of which the petitioner is imprisoned, all the estate, right, title, and interest
of the petitioner -in and to the property, so directed to be assigned.
§ 2212. Discharge ; when to be granted. Upon the production, by the
petitioner, of satisfactory evidence, that the petitioner has actually delivered
to the trustee or trustees all the property so directed to be assigned, which
is capable of delivery ; or upon the petitioner's giving security, approved by
the court, for the future delivery thereof ; the court must make an order,
discharging the petitioner from imprisonment, by virtue of each execution,
specified in his petition. The sheriff, upon being served with a certified
copy of the order, must discharge the petitioner as directed therein, without
any detention on account of fees.
§ 2213. Petitioner's property still liable. Notwithstanding such a
discharge, the judgment creditor in the execution has the same remedies,
against the property of the petitioner, for any sum due upon his judgment,
which he had before the execution was issued ; but the petitioner shall not,
except as is otherwise specially prescribed in the next section, be again
imprisoned by virtue of an execution upon the same judgment, or arrested
in an action thereupon.
§ 2214. When creditor may issue new execution against person.
If the petitioner is convicted of perjury, committed in any of the proceed
ings upon his petition, any judgment creditor, by virtue of whose execution
he was imprisoned, may issue a new execution against his person.
§ 2215. Powers and duties of trustee. The trustees must collect the
demands, and sell the other property assigned to him. He must apply the
proceeds thereof, after deducting his commissions and expenses allowed by
law, as follows :
1. To the payment of the jail fees, upon the imprisonment and discharge
of the petitioner.
2. If any surplus remains, to the payment of the creditors, by virtue of
whose executions the petitioner was imprisoned, when he presented his peti
tion ; or, if there is not enough to pay them in full, to the payment, to each,
of a proportionate part of the sum due upon his execution.
3. If any surplus remains, he must pay it over to the petitioner, or his
executor or administrator.
Personal service upon a creditor, or his attorney, of written notice of the
time and place of making a distribution, as prescribed in subdivision second
of this section, has the same effect as publishing a notice thereof, in a case
prescribed by law.
§ 2216. Creditor may notify debtor to apply for discharge. Where
a person has been imprisoned, by virtue of an execution, for the space of
three months after he was entitled, by the provisions of this article, to apply
for a discharge ; and has neither made such an application, nor applied for
his discharge under the provisions of article first of this title ; the judgment
creditor, by virtue of whose execution he is imprisoned, may serve upon the
prisoner a written notice, requiring him to apply for his discharge, accord
ing to the provisions of this article.
§ 2217. Effect of failure so to apply. If the prisoner does not, within
thirty days after personal service of such a notice, either present a petition
to the proper court, as prescribed in article first of this title, or serve, upon
the creditor giving the notice, a copy of a petition and schedule, with a
notice of his intention to apply for his discharge, as prescribed in this arti
cle ; or if, after such a presentation or service, he does not diligently pro
ceed thereupon to a decision, he shall be forever barred from ohtaining his
discharge under the provisions of this article, or of article first of this title.
§ 2218. Debtors to United States, etc., not to be discharged. Neither
of the following named persons shall be discharged from imprisonment,
under the provisions of this article :
1. A person owing a debt or duty to the United States.
2. A person owing a debt or duty to the State, for taxes or for money
received or collected by any person, as a public officer or in a fiduciary
capacity, or a cause of action specified in section 1969 of this act or ajudgment recovered upon such a cause of action.
When and to what court application to be made.
Who may apply.
Creditor must relinquish security.
Contents of petition.
Copy of sentence and affidavit to be presented.
Proceedings upon presentation of the papers.
Id. ; on return of order to show cause.
Effect of order appointing1 trustee.
Removal of trustee ; appointment of new trustee.
Prisoner's property ; how applied.
Id. ; to be delivered to him on his discharge.
Application of this article to persons heretofore sentenced.
§ 2219. When and to what court application to be made. Where a
person is imprisoned in a State prison, for a term less than for life ; or in a
penitentiary or county jail, for a criminal offense, for a longer term than
one year ; one or more trustees, to take charge of his property, may be
appointed, as prescribed in this article, by the county court of the county,
or a superior city court of the city, where he resided at the time of his
imprisonment • or if he was not then a resident of the State, where he is
imprisoned.
§ 2220. Who may apply. A petition for such an appointment may be
presented by either of the following persons ■
1. A creditor of the prisoner.
2. The prisoner's husband, wife, or child.
8. One or more of his next of kin, or, where he owns real property, of his
heirs presumptive.
4. A relative whom he is bound to support.
5. Any relative or other person, in behalf of his infant child or children.
§ 2221. Creditor must relinquish security. A creditor of the prisoner,
who has a judgment, mortgage, or other security, specified in section 2158
of this act, cannot apply for such an appointment, with respect to the debt
so secured, unless he appends to or includes in his petition, the declaration,
required by that section from a consenting creditor ; which declaration has
the same effect as the declaration of a consenting creditor, as therein speci
fied.
§ 2222. Contents of petition The petition must be in writing, and
verified by the affidavit of the petitioner, to the effect, that the matters
of fact therein stated are true, to the best of the petitioner's knowledge
and belief. It must set forth the facts, showing that the applicant is
entitled to make the application, and that the application is made to the
proper court ; the name and residence of each person, who is entitled to
make such an application, as prescribed in the last section but one, except
the fifth subdivision thereof; and a brief description of the property, real
and personal of the prisoner, and the value thereof. If the applicant is a
creditor, and not a resident of the State, he must annex to his petition, the
papers specified in section 2161, of this act. If any of the facts, herein
required to be set forth, cannot be ascertained by the petitioner, after the
exercise of due diligence, that fact must be stated ; and the court may, in
its discretion, issue a subpoena, requiring any person to attend and testify,
respecting any matter, which, in its opinion, ought to be more fully and
certainly set forth.
§ 2223. Copy of sentence and affidavit to be presented. The peti
tion must be accompanied with a copy of the sentence of conviction of the
prisoner, duly certified by the clerk of the court by which he was sentenced,
under the seal thereof; together with an affidavit of the applicant, stating
that the person so convicted is actually imprisoned thereunder.
§ 2224. Proceedings upon presentation of the papers. Upon the
presentation of the papers, the court may, in its discretion, make an order,
either appointing one or more fit persons trustees of the property of the
prisoner ; or requiring all creditors of the prisoner, and all persons inter
ested in his estate, to show cause, at a time and place specified therein,
why such an appointment should not be made. In the latter case, the
order must direct the manner of service thereof, by publication, or other
wise.
J; 2225. Id. ; on return of order to show cause. Upon the return of an
er to show cause, made as prescribed in the last section, proof of the
service thereof, as required thereby, must first be made ; whereupon the
court must hear the allegations and proofs of the creditors, and other persons
interested in the estate, who appear. "Where the prisoner is indebted to
any person, the court must appoint one or more trustees, unless the persons
interested in the prisoner's property, pay the debt, or give such security, as
the court prescribes, for the payment thereof, either absolutely or contin
gently upon a recovery in an action ; in which case, or where the prisoner
is not indebted, the court may grant or deny the prayer of the petition, aa
justice requires.
§ 2226. Effect of order appointing trustee. The entry of the order,
appointing one or more trustees, and the filing of the papers upon
■was granted, vest in the trustee or trustees all the right, title and interest
of the prisoner, in and to any property, real or personal. Where the pris
oner owns real property, an exemplified copy of the order must be recorded,
in the proper office for recording deeds, in each county where the property
is situated.
§ 2227. Removal of trustee ; appointment of new trustee. Upon
the application of any person, entitled to apply for an order, appointing
trustees of the prisoner's property, and upon such a notice as the court pre
scribes, to the petitioner, and to such other persons interested, as the court
thinks proper to designate, the court, by which the order was granted, may,
in its discretion, remove any trustee, and appoint another in his place ; or
may appoint one or more additional trustees. The new trustee or trustees,
so appointed, have the same power and authority, are vested with the same
right, title, and interest, and are subject to the same duties and liabilities,
as if he or they had been appointed by the original order.
§ 2228. Prisoner's property ; how applied. After deducting their
commissions aud expenses, allowed by law, and paying the prisoner's debts,
the trustees may, from time to time, under the direction of the court by
which they were appointed, apply the surplus of any money in their hands, |
to the support of the prisoner's wife and children, and of such other relatives ,
as he is bound to support, and to the education of his children.
§ 2229. Id. ; to be delivered to him on his discharge. When the pris
oner dies, or is lawfully discharged from imprisonment, the trustee or trus
tees must deliver over to him, or his legal representatives, all his property,
remaining in their hands, after deducting therefrom their lawful expenses
and commissions.
§ 2230. Application of this article to persons heretofore sentenced.
This article applies to a prisoner who has been sentenced before this chapter
takes effect, and to his property ; except where one or more trustees of his
property have been theretofore appointed, by proceedings taken in pursu
ance of a statute then in force.
§ 2231. When tenant may be removed. In either of the following
cases, a tenant or lessee at will, or at sufferance, or for part of a year, or for
one or more years, of real property, including a specific or undivided portion
of a house, or other dwelling, and his assigns, undertenants, or legal repre
sentatives, may be removed therefrom, as prescribed in this title :
1. Where he holds over and continues in possession of the demised prem
ises, or any portion thereof, after the expiration of his term, without the
permission of the landlord.
2. Where he holds over, without the like permission, after a default in
the payment of rent, pursuant to the agreement under which the demised
premises are held, and a demand of the rent has been made, or at least
three days' notice in writing, requiring, in the alternative, the payment of
the rent, or the possession of the premises, has been served, in behalf of the
person entitled to the rent, upon the person owing it, as prescribed in this
title for the service of a precept.
3. Where he being in possession under a lease for a term of three years
or less, has, during the term, taken the benefit of an insolvent act, or has
been adjudicated a bankrupt, under a bankrupt law of the United States.
4. Where the demised premises, or any part thereof, are used or occupied
as a bawdy-house, or house of assignation for lewd persons, or for any
illegal trade or manufacture, or other illegal business.
8 2232. Persons holding over land sold, etc., may be removed. In
either of the following cases, a person, who holds over and continues in pos
session of real property, after notice to quit the same has been given, as
prescribed in section 2236 of this act, and his assigns, tenants, or legal
representatives, may be removed therefrom, as prescribed in this title :
1. Where the property has been sold by virtue of an execution against
him, or a person under whom he claims, and a title under the sale has been
perfected.
2. Where the property has been duly sold, upon the foreclosure, by pro
ceedings taken as prescribed in title ninth of this chapter, of a mortgage
executed by him, or a person under whom he claims, and the title under
the foreclosure has been duly perfected.
3. Where he occupies or holds the property, under an agreement with the
owner to occupy and cultivate it upon shares, or for a share of the crops, and
the time, fixed in the agreement for his occupancy, has expired.
4. Where he, or the person to whom he has succeeded, has intruded into,
or squatted upon, a parcel of land, in a city or incorporated village, without
the permission of the person entitled to the possession thereof, and the occu
pancy, thus commenced, has continued without permission from the latter ;
or after a permission given hy him has been revoked, and notice of the
revocation given to the person or persons to be removed.
§ 2233. Id. ; in case of forcible entry or detainer. An entry shall
not be made into real property, but in a case where the entry is given by
law ; and, in such a case, only in a peaceable manner, not with strong
hand, nor with multitude of people. A person who makes a forcible enlry
forbidden by this section, or who, having peaceably entered upon real
property, holds the possession thereof by force, and his assigns, underten
ants, and legal representatives, may be removed therefrom ; as prescribed
in this title.
§ 2234. Application ; to whom made. Application for the removal of
a person from real property, as prescribed in this title, may be made to the
county judge or special county judge of the county, or a justice of the peace
of the city or town, or the mayor or recorder of the city, wherein the real
property, or a portion thereof, is situated. Application may also be made,
if the property, or a portion thereof, is situated in the city of New York, to
a justice of the marine court of that city or to the district conrt of the district
within which the property, or a portion thereof, is situated ; if in the city
of Brooklyn, to a police justice of that city ; if in the city of Albany, or the
city of Troy, to a justice of the justices' court of that city; if in the city of
Yorikers, to the city judge of that city ; if in the cities of Rochester or Buffalo,
to a judge of the municipal court of that city. Where the property is situ
ated in an incorporated village, the boundaries of which embrace portions of two
or more towns, application may be made to a justice of the peace of either town,
toko keeps an office in the village. [Am'd Ch. 122 of 1881.]
§ 2235. Fetation by person entitled to possession. The application
may be made by the landlord or lessor of the demised premises ; the pur
chaser upon the execution or foreclosure sale ; the person forcibly put out or
kept out ; the person with whom, as owner, the agreement was made, or the
owner of the property occupied under an agreement, to cultivate the property
upon shares, or for a share of the crops ; or the person lawfully entitled to
the possession of the property intruded into or squatted upon, as the case
requires ; or by the legal representative, agent, or assignee of the landlord,
purchaser, or other person, so entitled to apply. The applicant must present
to the judge or justice, a written petition, verified in like manner as a veri
fied complaint in an action brought in the supreme court ; describing the
premises of which the possession is claimed, and the interest therein of the
petitioner, or the person whom he represents ; stating the facts, which accord
ing to the provisions of this title, authorize the application by the petitioner,
and the removal of the person in possession ; naming, or otherwise intelligi
bly designating, the person or persons against whom the special proceeding
is instituted, and, if there are two or more such persons, and some are under
tenants, or assigns, specifying who are principals or tenants, and who are
undertenants or assigns ; and praying for a final order to remove him or
them accordingly.
§ 2236. Notice to be given in certain cases. Where the person to be
removed is a tenant at will, or at sufferance, the petition must state the
facts, showing that the tenancy has been terminated, by giving notice, as
required by law. Where the application is made in a case specified in sec
tion 2232 of this act, the petition must state that a notice, in behalf of the
applicant, requiring all persons occupying the property to quit the same, by
a day therein specified, has been either served personally upon the person
or persous to be removed, or affixed conspicuously upon the property, at least
ten days before the day specified therein.
§ 2237. Petition by neighbor of bawdy-house, etc. An owner or
tenant of real property, in the immediate neighborhood of other demised
real property, which is used or occupied as a bawdy-house, or house of
assignation for lewd persons, may serve personally upon the owner or land
lord of the premises, so used or occupied, or upon his agent, a written notice,
requiring the owner or landlord to make an application for the removal of
the person so using or occupying the same. If the owner or landlord, or his
agent, does not make such an application, within five days thereafter ; or,
having made it, does not in good faith diligently prosecute it ; the person
giving the notice may make such an application, stating in his petition the
facts so entitling him to make it. Such an application has the same effect,
except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this title, as if the applicant was
the landlord or lessor of the premises.
§ 2238. Precept. The judge or justice, to whom a petition is presented,
as prescribed in either of the foregoing sections of this title, must thereupon
issue a precept, directed to the person or persons designated in the petition
as being in possession of the property, and requiring him or them forthwith
to remove from the property, describing it, or to show cause, before him, at
a time and place specified in the precept, why possession of the property
should not be delivered to the petitioner, or, in the case specified in the last
section, to the owner or landlord. The precept must be returnable, not less
than three nor more than five days, after it is issued ; except that, where
the proceeding is taken, upon the ground that a tenant continues in posses
sion of demised premises, after the expiration of his term, without the per
mission of his landlord, and the application is made on the day of the expira
tion of the lease, or on the next day thereafter, the precept may, in the
discretion of the judge or justice, be made returnable on the day on which
it is issued, at any time after twelve o'clock, noon, and before six o'clock in
the afternoon.
§ 2239. Id. ; in New York city. In the city of New York, where the
application is made to a district court, the petition must be filed with, and
the precept must be issued by, the clerk of the court ; and the precept must
be made returnable before the court, at the place designated, pursuant to
law, for holding the court ; and all subsequent proceedings in the cause must
be had at that place, except as otherwise prescribed in section 2246 of this
act. If, upon the return of the precept or upon an adjourned day, the jus
tice is unable, by reason of absence from the court room or sickness, to hear
the cause, or it is shown by affidavit that he is for any reason disqualified to
sit in the cause, or is a necessary and material witness for either party, a
justice of any other district court of the city may act in his place at the same
court room.
§ 2240. Id ; how served The precept must be served as follows :
1. By delivering, to the person to whom it is directed, or, if it is directed
to a corporation, to an officer of the corporation, upon whom a summons,
issued out of the supreme court, in an action against the corporation, might
be served, a copy of the precept, and at the same time showing him the
original.
2. If the person to whom the precept is directed, resides in the city or
town in which the property is situated, but is absent from his dwellinghouse, service may be made by delivering a copy thereof, at his dwellinghouse, to a person of suitable age and discretion, who resides there ; or, if
no such person can, with reasonable diligence, be found there, upon whom
to make service, then by delivering a copy of the precept, at the property
sought to be recovered, either to some person of suitable age and discretion
residing there, or if no such person can be found there, to any person of
suitable age and discretion employed there.
3. Where service cannot, with reasonable diligence, be made, as pre
scribed in either of the foregoing subdivisions of this section, by affixing a
copy of the precept upon a conspicuous part of the property.
If the precept is returnable on the day on which it is issued, it must be
served at least two hours before the hour at which it is returnable ; in every
other case, it must be served at least two days before the day on which it is
returnable.
§ 2241. Duty of person to whom copy of precept is delivered. A
person, to whom a copy of a precept, directed to another, is delivered, as
prescribed in this title, must, without any avoidable delay, deliver it to the
person to whom it is directed, if he can be found within the same town or
city ; or, if he cannot be so found, to his agent therein ; and if neither can
be so found, after the exercise of reasonable diligence, before the time when
the precept is returnable, to the judge or justice who issued the same, at the
time of the return thereof, with a written statement indorsed thereupon,
that he has been unable, after the exercise of reasonable diligence, to find
the person to whom the precept is directed, or his agent, within the town or
city. A person, who willfully violates any provision of this section, is guilty
of a misdemeanor ; and, if he is a tenant upon the property, forfeits to his
landlord the value of three years' rent of the premises occupied by him. A
copy of this section must be indorsed upon each copy of a precept, served
otherwise than Dersonally upon the person to whom it is directed.
§ 2242. When precept to be served on landlord of bawdy-house,
etc. Where the case is within section 2237 of tins act, the precept must be
directed to and served upon the owner or landlord, or his agent, and also
upon the tenant or occupant of the property. Either or both of them may,
upon the return day, appear and 6how cause why the tenant or occupant
should not be removed from the property.
§ 2243. Proof of service of precept. At the time when the precept is
returnable, the petitioner must, unless the adverse party appears, make due
proof of the service thereof, showing the time, and the place and manner of
service ; and, unless service was made personally upon the adverse party,
or by affixing a copy of the precept, the name of the person to whom a copy
of the precept was delivered, if his name can be ascertained with reasona
ble diligence. Where service is made by a sheriff, constable, or marshal, it
may be proved by his certificate, stating the facts.
^ 2244. Answer. At the time when the precept is returnable, without
waiting as prescribed in an action before a justice of the peace, or in a dis
trict court of the city of New York, the person to whom it is directed, or his
landlord, or any person in possession or claiming possession of the premises,
or a part thereof, may file, with the judge or justice who issued the precept,
or with the clerk of the court, a written answer, verified in like manner as a
verified answer in an action in the supreme court, denying, generally, the
allegations, or specifically any material allegation of the petition. [Am'd
Ch. 399 of 1882. See § 2.J
§ 2245. Issues upon forcible entry or detainer. Where the application
is founded upon an allegation of forcible entry or forcible holding out, the
petitioner must allege and prove that he was peaceably in actual possession
of the property, at the time of a forcible entry, or in constructive possession,
at the time of a forcible holding out; and the adverse party must either
deny the forcible entry, or the forcible holding out, or allege, in his defense,
that he, or his ancestor, or those whose interest he claims, had been in quiet
possession of the property, for three years together next before the alleged
forcible entry or detainer ; and that his interest is not ended or determined,
at the time of the trial.
§ 2246. In New York district court, cause may be transferred to
another court for trial. In a district court of the city of New York, at the time
of joining issue, the justice sitt ing in the cause may, in his discretion, upon
motion of either party, or, if no justice is present, the clerk may, by consent of
both parties, make an order transferring the cause for trial to a district court
of an adjoining district, which thereupon has the same jurisdiction and power,
at its own court house, as if the property was situated within its district.
§ 2247. Trial. The issues joined by the petition and answer must be tried
by the judge or justice, unless eitherparty to such, proceedings shall at the time desig
nated in such precept for showing cause, demand a jury, and at the time of such
demand pay to such judge or justice the necessary costs and expenses of obtaining
such jury. If a jury be demanded and such costs and expenses be paid the judge
or justice with whom such petition shall be filed shall nominate twelve reputal/le
persons qualified to serve as jurors in courts of record, and shall issue his precept,
directed to the sheriff or one of the constables of the county, or any constable or mar
shal of the city or town, commanding him to summon the persons so nominated to
appear before such judge or justice at such time or place as he shall therein appoint,
not more than three days from the date thereof, for the purpose of trying the said
matters in difference. Six of the persons so summoned shall be drawn in like
manner as jurors injustices' courts and shall be sworn by such'judge or justice well
and truly to hear, try and determine the matters in difference between the parties.
After hearing the allegations and j/roofs of the parties, the said jury shall be kept
together until they agree on their verdict, by the sheriff or one of his deputies, or a
constable, or by some proper person appointed by the judge or justice for that pur
pose, who shall be morn to keep such jury as is usual in like cases of courts of
record. If such jury cannot agree after being kept together for mch lime as such
judge or justice shall deem reasonable, he may discharge them and nominate a new
jury, and issue a neio precept in manner aforesaid. [Am'd Ch. 122 op 1881 and
Ch. 114 op 1882.]
§ 2248. Adjournment. At the time when issue is joined, the judge or
justice may, in his discretion, at the request of either party, and upon proof
to his satisfaction, by affidavit or orally, that an adjournment is necessary,
to enable the applicant to procure his necessary witnesses, or by consent of
all the parties who appear, adjourn the trial of the issue, but not more than
ten days ; except by consent of all parties.
§ 2249. Final order upon trial. If sufficient cause is not shown upon
the return of the precept ; or if the verdict of the jury, or the decision of the
judge or justice, upon a trial without a jury, is in favor of the petitioner ;
the judge or justice must make a final order, awarding to the petitioner the
delivery of the possession of the property ; except that, where the case is
within section 2237 of this act, the final order must direct the removal of the
occupant. In either case, the final order must award to the petitioner the
costs of the special proceeding. If the verdict or decision is in favor of the
person answering, the judge or justice must make a final order accordingly,
and awarding to him the costs of the special proceeding.
§ 2250. Amount of costs ; how collected. Costs, when allowed, and
the fees of officers, except where a fee is specially given in chapter 21 of
this act, must be at the rate allowed by law in an action in a justice's court,
and are limited in like manner ; unless the application is founded upon an
allegation of forcible entry or forcible holding out; in which case, the judge
or justice may award to the successful party a fixed sum as costs, not exceed
ing fifty dollar , in addition to his disbursements. If the final order is made
by a county judge, or a special county judge, or by a mayor or recorder, an exe
cution to collect the costs may be issued thereupon as if it was a judgment of a justice
of the peace of the same city or county ; and for that purpose the officer takes the
place of a justice of the peace. In every other case an execution may be issued
to collect the costs awarded thereby, as if the final order was a judgment,
rendered in the court,, of which the judge or justice is the presiding officer.
[Am'd Ch. 399 of 1882. See § 2.]
§ 2251. Warrant to dispossess defendant. Where the final order is in
favor of the petitioner, the judge or justice must thereupon issue a warrant,
under his hand, directed to the sheriff of the county, or to any constable or
marshal of the city, in which the property, or a portion thereof, is situated,
or if it is not situated in a city, to any constable of any town in the county, describ
ing the property, and commanding the officer to remove all persons there
from, and also, except where the case is within section 2237 of this act, to
put the petitioner into the full possession thereof. [Am'd Ch. 399 of 1882.
See § 2.]
§ 2252. Execution of warrant The officer, to whom the warrant is
directed and delivered, must execute it, according to the command thereof,
between the hours of sunrise and sunset.
§ 2253. When warrant cancels lease ; exceptions. The issuing of a
warrant, for the removal of a tenant from demised premises, cancels the
agreement for the use of the premises, if any, under which the person
removed held them ; and annuls accordingly the relation of landlord and
tenant, except that it does not prevent a landlord from recovering, by action,
any sum of money, which was, at the time when the precept was issued,
payable by the terms of the agreement, as rent for the premises ; or the
reasonable value of the use and occupation thereof, to the time when the
warrant was issued, for any period of time, with respect to which the agree
ment does not make any special provision for payment of rent.
§ 2254. Warrant ; when and how stayed. The party, against whom
a final order is made, requiring the delivery of possession to the petitioner,
may, at any time before a warrant is issued, stay the issuing thereof ; and
also stay an execution to collect the costs, as follows :
1. Where the final order establishes that a lessee or tenant holds over,
after a default in the payment of rent, he may effect a stay, by payment of
the rent due, and the costs of the special proceeding ; or by delivering to the
judge or justice, or the clerk of the court, his undertaking to the petitioner,
in such a sum and with such sureties as the judge or justice approves, to
the effect, that he will pay the rent and costs, within ten days ; at the expi
ration of which time a warrant may issue, unless he produces to the judge
or justice satisfactory evidence of the payment.
2. Where the final order establishes that a lessee or tenant has taken the
benefit of an insolvent act, or has been adjudicated a bankrupt, he may effect
a stay, by paying the costs of the special proceeding, and by delivering to
the judge or justice, or the clerk of the court, his undertaking to the peti
tioner, in such a sum and with such sureties as the judge or justice approves,
to the effect, that he will pay the rent of the premises, as it has become, or
thereafter becomes due.
3. Where the final order establishes that the person, against whom it is
made, continues in possession of real property, which has been sold by virtue
of an execution against his property, he may effect a stay, by paying the
costs of the special proceeding, and delivering to the judge or justice, or the
clerk of the court, an affidavit, that he claims the possession of the property,
by virtue of a right or title, acquired after the sale, or as guardian or trustee
for another ; together with his undertaking to the petitioner, in such a sum
and with such sureties as the judge or justice approves, to the effect, that he
will pay any costs and damages, which may be recovered against him, in an
action of ejectment to recover the property, brought against him by the peti
tioner within six months thereafter ; and that he will not commit any waste
upon or injury to the property, during his occupation thereof.
§ 2255. Undertaking; how disposed of. Where an undertaking is
given, in a case specified in subdivision first of the last sectioi the judge or
justice must deliver it to the person against whom the final order was made,
upon his producing the evidence of payment, mentioned in that subdivision.
If he does not produce such evidence within ten days, the judge or justice
must deliver it to the petitioner. In every other case specified in the last
section, the judge or justice must deliver the undertaking to the petitioner,
immediately after his approval thereof.
§2256. Redemption by lessee. Where the special proceeding is founded
upon an allegation that a lessee holds over, after a default in the payment of
rent, and the unexpired term of the lease under which the premises are held,
exceeds five years, at the time when the warrant is issued ; the lessee, his
executor, administrator, or assignee, may, at any time within one year after
the execution of the warrant, pay or tender to the petitioner, his heir
executor, administrator, or assignee, or if, within five days before the expi
ration of the year, he cannot, with reasonable diligence, be found within the
city or town wherein the property, or a portion thereof, is situated, then to
the judge or justice who issued the warrant, or his successor in office, all rent
in arrear at the time of the payment or tender, with interest thereupon, and
the costs and charges incurred by the petitioner. Thereupon the person
making the payment or tender, shall be entitled to the possession of the
demised premise, under the lease, and may hold and enjoy the same, accord
ing to the terms of the original demise, except as otherwise prescribed in the
next section but one.
§ 2257. Id. ; by creditor of lessee. In a case specified in the last sec
tion, a judgment creditor of the lessee, whose judgment was docketed in the
county, before the precept was issued, or a mortgagee of the lease, whose
mortgage was duly recorded, in the county, before the precept was issued,
may, at any time before the expiration of one year after the execution of
the warrant, unless a redemption has been made as prescribed in the last
section, file with the judge or justice who issued the warrant, or with his,
successor in office, a notice, specifying his interest and the sum due to him ;
describing the premises, and stating that it is his intention to redeem, as
prescribed in this section. If a redemption is not made by the lessee, his
executor, administrator, or assignee, within a year after the execution of the
warrant, the person so filing a notice, or, if two or more persons have filed
such notices, the one who holds the first lien, may, at any time before two
o'clock of the day, not a Sunday or a public holiday, next succeeding the last
day of the year redeem for his own benefit, in like manner as the lessee, his
executor, administrator, or assignee might have so redeemed. Where two or
more judgment creditors or mortgagees have filed such notices, the holder of
the second lien may so redeem, at any time before two o'clock of the day,
not a Sunday or a public holiday, next succeeding that in which the holder
of the first lien might have redeemed ; and the holder of the third and each
subsequent lien, may redeem, in like manner, at any time before iwo o'clock
of the day, not a Sunday or a public holiday, next succeeding that in which
his predecessor might have redeemed. But a second or subsequent redemp
tion is not valid, unless the person redeeming pays or tenders to each of his
predecessors who has redeemed, the sum paid by him to redeem, and also
the sum due upon his judgment or mortgage; or deposits those sums with
the judge or justice, for the benefit of his predecessor or predecessors.
§ 2258. The last two sections qualified. Where a redemption is made,
as prescribed in either of the last two sections, the rights of the person
redeeming are subject to a lease, if any, executed by the petitioner, since
the warrant was issued, so far that the new lessee, his assigns, undertenants,
or other representatives, may, upon complying with the terms of the lease,
hold the premises so leased until twelve o'clock, noon, of the first day of
May next succeeding the redemption. And in all other respects, the
person so redeeming, his assigns and representatives, succeed to all the
rights and liabilities of the petitioner, under such a lease.
§ 2259. Order to be made thereupon ; liability of person redeeming.
The person redeeming, as prescribed in the last three sections, or the owner
of the property so redeemed, may present to the judge or justice who issued
the warrant, or to his successor in office, a petition, duly verified, setting
forth the facts of the redemption, and praying for an order, establishing the
rights and liabilities of the parties upon the redemption. Whereupon the
judge or justice must make an order, requiring the other party to the
redemption to show cause before him, at a time and place therein specified,
why the prayer of the petition should not be granted. The order to show
cause must be made returnable, not less than two nor more than ten days,
after it is granted ; and it must be served at least two days before it is
returnable. Upon the return thereof, the judge or justice must hear the
allegations and proofs of the parties, and must make such a final order as
justice requires. The costs and expenses must be paid by the petitioner.
The final order, or a certified copy thereof, may be recorded in like manner
as a deed. A person, other than the lessee, who redeems as prescribed in
the last three sections, succeeds to all the duties and liabilities of the lessee,
accruing after the redemption, as if he was named as lessee in the lease.
§ 2260. Appeal. An appeal may be taken from a final order, made as
prescribed in this title, to the same court, within the same time, and in the
same manner, as where an appeal is taken from a judgment rendered in the
court, of which the judge or justice is the presiding officer, and with like
effect ; except as otherwise prescribed in the next two sections.
§ 2261. Effect of appeal limited in certain cases. The issuing or exe
cution of the warrant cannot be stayed by such an appeal, or by the giving
of an undertaking thereupon, otherwise than as prescribed in the next
section. An appeal cannot be taken to the court of appeals, from a final
determination of the general term of the supreme court or of a superior city
court, upon such an appeal, unless the latter court, by an order, made at the
general term where the final order is made, or the next general term there
after, allows it to be taken.
§ 2262. Warrant ; how stayed on appeal. Where an appeal is taken
from a final order, awarding delivery of possession to the petitioner, which
establishes that a lessee or tenant holds over, after a default in the payment
of rent, the issuing and execution of the warrant may, except in the city and
comity of New York, be stayed by the order of the county judge. Such an
order can be made only upon the appellant's giving the security required to
perfect the appeal, and to stay the execution of the order appealed from,
and al*o an undertaking to the petitioner, in a sum, and with sureties,
approved by the county judge, to the effect, that if, upon the appeal, a final
determination is rendered against the appellant, he will pay all rent accruing
or to accrue upon the premises, or, if there is no lease thereof, the value of
the use and occupation of the premises, subsequent to the institution of the
special proceeding.
§ 2263. Appellate court may award restitution ; action for damages.
If the final order is reversed upon the appeal, the appellate court may award
restitution to the party injured, with costs ; and it may make any order, or
issue any other mandate, necessary to carry its determination into effect.
The person dispossessed may also maintain an action, to recover the dam
ages which he has sustained by the dispossession.
§ 2264. Application of this title ; effect of final order. This title
does not impair the rights of a landlord, lessor, or tenant, in a case not
therein provided for. Where a special statutory provision confers a right
to take proceedings, in the manner heretofore prescribed by law, for the
summary removal of a person in possession of real property, the proceed
ings thereunder must be taken as prescribed in this title. A final order,
made in a special proceeding, taken as prescribed in this title, is not a bar
to an action of ejectment, to recover the property affected thereby.
§ 2265. How proceedings under this title to be Btayed Where a
petition is presented, as prescribed in this title, the proceedings thereupon
before the final order, and, if the final order awards delivery of the posses
sion to the petitioner, the issuing or execution of the warrant thereupon, can
not be stayed or suspended by any court or judge, except in one of the fol
lowing methods :
L By an order made, or an undertaking filed, upon an appeal, in a case
and in the manner specially prescribed for that purpose in this title.
2. By an injunction order, granted in an action against the petitioner.
Such an injunction shall not be granted before the final order in the special
proceeding, except in a case where an injunction would be granted to stay
the proceedings, in an action of ejectment, brought by the petitioner, and
upon the like terms ; or after the final order, except in a case where an
injunction would be granted to stay the execution of the final judgment in
such an action, and upon the like terms.
§ 2266. Cases to which this title applies. In a case specified in sec
tion 14 of this act, or in any other case where it is specially prescribed by
law, that a court of record, or a j udge thereof, or a referee appointed by the
court, has power to punish, by fine and imprisonment, or either, or gener
ally as a contempt, a neglect or violation of duty, or other misconduct ; and a
right or remedy of a party to a civil action or special proceeding pending in
the court, or before the judge or the referee, may be defeated, impaired,
impeded, or prejudiced thereby, the offense must be punished as prescribed
in this title.
§ 2267. When punishment may be summary. Where the offense is
committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, or of the judge
or referee, upon a trial or hearing, it may be punished summarily. For that
purpose, an order must be made by the court, judge, or referee, stating the
facts which constitute the offense, and bring the case within the provisions
of this section, and plainly and specifically prescribing the punishment to
be inflicted thereforee.
§ 2268. When warrant to commit may issue without notice. Where
the offense consists of a neglect or refusal to obey an order of the court,
requiring the payment of costs, or of a specified sum of money, and the
court is satisfied, by proof, by affidavit, that a personal demand thereof has
been made, and that payment thereof has been refused or neglected ; it may
issue, without notice, a warrant to commit the offender to prison, until the
costs or other sum of money, and the costs and expenses of the proceeding,
are paid, or until he is discharged according to law.
§ 2269. Order to show cause, or warrant to attach offender. The
court or judge, authorized to punish for the offense, may in its or his dis
cretion, where the case is one of those specified in either of the last two sec
tions, and, in every other case, must, upon being satisfied, by affidavit, of
the commission of the offense, either
1. Make an order, requiring the accused to show cause before it, or him,
at a time and place therein specified, why the accused should not be pun
ished for the alleged offense ; or
2. Issue a warrant of attachment, directed to the sheriff of a particular
county, or, generally, to the sheriff of any county where the accused may
be found, commanding him to arrest the accused, and bring him before the
court or judge, either forthwith, or at a time and place therein specified, to
answer for the alleged offense.
^ 2270. Notice to delinquent officer to show causa Where it is pre
scribed by law, or by the general rules of practice, that a notice may be
served in behalf of a party, upon a sheriff or other person, requiring him to
return a mandate, delivered to him, or to show cause, at a term of a court,
why he should not be punished, or why an attachment should not be issued
against him, for a contempt of the court ; the party, in whose behalf the
notice is served, may, at the time specified therein, file with the clerk, proof,
by affidavit or other written evidence, of the delivery of the mandate to the
accused ; of the default or other act, upon the occurrence of which, he was
entitled to serve the notice ; of the service of the notice ; and of the failure
to comply therewith. Thereupon the preceedings are the same, as where an
order to show cause is made, and it, and a copy of the affidavits upon which
it is granted, are served upon the accused.
8 2271. Order or warrant ; when granted out of court Where the
order to show cause, or the warrant, is returnable before the court, it may be
made, or issued, as prescribed in the last section but one, by any judge
authorized to grant an order without notice, in an action pending in the
court ; and it must be made returnable at a term of the court, at which a
contested motion may be heard.
§ 2272. Id. ; when contempt was committed before a referee. An
order to show cause may be made, or a warrant may be issued, as prescribed
in sectiou 2269 of this act, by a referee appointed by the court, where the
offense is committed upon the trial of an issue referred to him, or consists of
a witness's non-attendance, or refusal to be sworn or to testify, before him.
The order or warrant may, in the discretion of the referee, be made return
able before him, or before the court. Where it is made returnable before
the referee, he has all the power and authority of the court, with respect to
the motion or special proceeding, instituted thereby.
§ 2273. Effect of order to show cause, and of warrant. An order to
show cause may be made, either before or after the final judgment in the
action, or the final order in the special proceeding. It is equivalent to a
notice of motion ; and the subsequent proceedings thereupon are taken in
the action or special proceeding, as upon a motion made therein. A war
rant of attachment is a mandate, whereby an original special proceedirg is
instituted against the accused, in behalf of the people, upon the relation of
the complainant.
§ 2274. Copy affidavit, etc., to be served with warrant. A copy of
the warrant, and of the affidavit upon which it is issued, must be served
upon the accused, when he is arrested by virtue thereof.
§ 2275. Indorsement upon warrant. Where a warrant of attachment
is issued, the court, judge, or referee, may, in its or his discretion, by an
indorsement thereupon, fix a sum, in which the accused may give an under
taking for his appearance to answer.
§ 2276. Warrant ; how executed If an indorsement is not made upon
the warrant, as prescribed in the last section ; or if such an indorsement is
made and an undertaking is not given, as prescribed in the next section ;
the sheriff, after making the arrest, as required by the warrant, must keep
the accused in his custody, until the further direction of the court, judge, or
referee. Where, from sickness or any other cause, the accused is physically
unable to attend before the court, judge, or referee, that fact is a sufficient
excuse to the sheriff for not producing him as required by the warrant. In
that case, the sheriff must produce him, as directed by the court, judge, or
referee, after he becomes able to attend. The sheriff need not, in any case,
confine the accused in prison, or otherwise restrain him of his liberty, except
as far as it is necessary so to do, in order to secure his personal attendance.
§ 2277. Undertaking to procure discharge. Where an indorsement is
made upon the warrant, as prescribed in the last section but one, the accused
must be discharged from arrest, upon his executing and delivering to the
sheriff, at any time before the return day of the warrant, an undertaking to
the people, in the sum specified in the indorsement, with two sufficient sure
ties, to the effect that he will appear, at the time when, and the place where,
the warrant is returnable, and then and there abide the direction of the
court, judge, or referee, as the case requires. The officer, taking the
acknowledgment of the undertaking, must, if the sheriff so requires, examine
under oath, to a reasonable extent, the persons offered as sureties, concerning
their property and circumstances.
§ 2278. When habeas corpus may issue. If the accused is in the
custody of a sheriff, or other officer, by virtue of an execution against his
person, or by virtue of a mandate for any other contempt or misconduct, or
a commitment on a criminal charge, a wan-ant of attachment cannot be
issued. In that case, the court, upon proof of the facts, must issue a writ of
habeas corpus, directed to the officer, requiring- him to bring the accused
before it, to answer for the offense charged. The officer to whom the writ
is directed, or upon whom it is served, must, except in a case where the pro
duction of the accused under a warrant of attachment would be dispensed
with, bring him before the court, and detain him at the place where the
court is sitting, until the further order of the court.
§ 2279. Sheriff to file undertaking with return. The sheriff or other
officer must file the undertaking, if any, taken by him, with the return to
the warrant or writ of habeas corpus.
§ 2280. Interrogatories and proofs. When the accused is produced, by
virtue of a warrant, or a writ of habeas corpus, or appears upon the return
of a warrant, the court, judge, or referee, must, unless he admits the offense
charged, cause interrogatories to be filed, specifying the facts and circum
stances of the offense charged against him. The accused must make written
answers thereto, under oath, within such reasonable time as the court, judge,
or referee allows therefore ; and either party may produce affidavits, or other
proofs, contradicting or corroborating any answer. Upon the original affi
davits, the answers, and subsequent proofs, the court, judge, or referee
must determine, whether the accused has committed the offense charged.
§ 2281. When and how accused to be punished If it is determined
that the accused has committed the offense charged ; and that it was cal
culated to, or actually did, defeat, impair, impede, or prejudice the rights
or remedies of a party to an action or special proceeding, brought in the
court, or before the judge or referee ; the court, judge, or referee must make
a final order accordingly, and directing that he Toe punished by fine or
imprisonment, or both, as the nature of the case requires. A warrant of
commitment must issue accordingly.
§ 2282. Id ; upon return of habeas corpus. Where the accused is
brought up by virtue of a writ of habeas corpus, he must, after the final
order is made, be remanded to the custody of the sheriff, or other officer,
to whom the writ was directed. If the final order directs that he be pun
ished by imprisonment, or committed until the payment of a sum of money,
he must be so imprisoned or committed, upon his discharge from custody
under the mandate, by virtue of which he is held by the sheriff, or other
officer.
§ 2283. Id. ; upon return of order to show cause. Upon the return
of an order to show cause, the questions which arise must be determined, as
upon any other motion ; and, if the determination is to the effect specified
in the last section but one, the order thereupon must be to the same effect
as the final order therein prescribed. Upon a certified copy of the order so
made, the offender may be committed, without further process.
§ 2284. Amount of fine. If an actual loss or injury has been produced
to a party to an action or special proceeding, by reason of the misconduct
proved against the offender, and the case is not one where it is specially
prescribed by law, that an action may be maintained to recover damages
for the loss or injury, a fine, sufficient to indemnify the aggrieved party,
must be imposed upon the offender, and collected, and paid over to the
aggrieved party, under the direction of the court. The payment and accept
ance of such a fine constitute a bar to an action by the aggrieved party, to
recover damages for the loss or injury. Where it is not shown that such an
actual loss or injury has been produced, a fine must be imposed, not exceed
ing the amount of the complainant's costs and expenses, and two hundred
and fifty dollars in addition thereto, and must be collected and paid, in
like manner. A corporation may be fined as prescribed in this section.
§ 2285. Length of imprisonment. Where the misconduct proved con
sists of an omission to perform an act or duty, which it is yet in the power
of the offender to perform, he shall be imprisoned only until he has per
formed it, and paid the fine imposed. In such a case, the order, and the
warrant of commitment, if one is issued, must specify the act or duty to be
performed, and the sum to be paid. In every other case, where special
provision is not otherwise made by law, the offender may be imprisoned for
a reasonable time, not exceeding six months, and until the fine, if any, is
paid ; and the order, and the warrant of commitment, if any, must specify
the amount of the fine, and the duration of the imprisonment.
§ 2286. When court may release offender. Where an offender, impris
oned as prescribed in this title, is unable to endure the imprisonment, or
to pay the sum, or to perform the act or duty, required to be paid or performed,
in order to entitle him to be released, the court, judge, or referee, or, where
the commitment was made as prescribed in section 2457 of this act, the
court, out of which the execution was issued, may in its or his discretion,
and upon such terms as justice requires, make an order, directing him to be
discharged from the imprisonment.
•
§ 2887. Offender liable to indictment A person, punished as pre
scribed in this title, may, notwithstanding, be indicted for the same miscon
duct, if it is an indictable offense ; but the court, before which he is con
victed, must, in forming its sentence, take into consideration the previous
punishment.
§ 2288. Proceedings when accused does not appear. Where a per
son, arrested by virtue of a warrant of attachment, has given an undertak
ing for his appearance, as prescribed in this title, and fails to appear, on the
return day of the warrant, the court may either issue another warrant, or
make an order directing the undertaking to be prosecuted; or both.
8 2289. Undertaking ; when prosecuted by person aggrieved. The
order, directing the undertaking to be prosecuted, may, in the discretion of
the court, direct the prosecution thereof, by and in the name of any party
aggrieved by the misconduct of the accused. In such a case, the plaintifff
may recover damages, to the extent of the loss or injury sustained by him,
by reason of the misconduct, together with the costs and expenses of prose
cuting the special proceeding in which the warrant was issued ; not exceed
ing the sum specified in the undertaking.
§ 2290. Id. ; by Attorney-General, etc. If no party is aggrieved by
the misconduct of the accused, the order must, and, in any case where the
court thinks proper so to direct, it may, direct the prosecution of the under
taking, by the Attorney-General, or by the district-attorney of the county
in which it was given, in the name of the people. In an action, brought
pursuant to the order, the people are entitled to recover the entire sum,
specified in the undertaking. Out of the money collected, the court, which
directed the prosecution, must direct that the person, at whose instance the
warrant was issued, be paid such a sum as it thinks proper, to satisfy the
costs and expenses incurred by him, and to compensate him for any loss or
injury sustained by him, by reason of the misconduct. The residue of the
money must be paid into the treasury of the State.
§ 2291. Sheriff liable for taking insufficient sureties. After the return
of an execution, issued upon a judgment, rendered in an action upon the
undertaking, an action, to recover the amount of the judgment, may be
maintained against the sheriff, where it appears that, at the time when the
undertaking was given, the sureties were insufficient, and the sheriff had
reasonable grounds to doubt their sufficiency. Such an action may be main
tained by the plaintifff, in whose favor the judgment was recovered. If the
people were plaintifffs, the action must be prosecuted by the AttorneyGeneral or the district-attorney ; and any money collected therein must be
disposed of, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 2292. Punishment of misconduct at circuit. Where a misconduct,
which is punishable by fine or imprisonment, as prescribed in this title,
occurs at a term of a circuit court, or with respect to a mandate returnable
at a term of that court, or a special proceeding pending in that court, and
was not punished at that term of the circuit court ; the supreme court may
inquire into and punish the misconduct, as if it had occurred at a special
term of the supreme court, held in the same county, or with respect to a
mandate returnable at such a special term, or a special proceeding pending
in the supreme court.
Clerk to make schedule of fines imposed.
Warrant to be issued by him.
Id. ; when delinquent resides in another county.
Execution of warrant.
Return thereof.
Proceedings if fine not collected.
Who to be included in schedule.
Liability of sheriff.
Application of this title.

§ 2293. Clerk to make schedule of fines imposed. Where a fine has
been imposed by a court of record, upon a grand or trial juror, or upon any
officer or other person, without being accompanied with an order for the
immediate commitment of the person so fined, until the fine is paid, the
clerk of the court, immediately after the close of the term at which the fine
was imposed, must prepare a schedule, containing, in separate columns, the
following matters :
1. The name of each person fined.
2. His place of residence, where it appears, from the papers on file or
before the court, to be within the county.
3. The amount of the fine imposed upon him.
4 The cause for which the fine was imposed.
The clerk must subjoin to the schedule a certificate, to the effect, that it
contains a true abstract of the orders imposing fines, and must annex it to
the warrant specified in the next section.
§ 2294. Warrant to be issued by him. The clerk must immediately
issue a warrant, under the seal of the court, directed to the sheriff of the
county, and commanding him to collect from each of the persons, named in the
schedule annexed to the warrant, the sum therein set opposite that person's
name ; and to pay over the sum collected, to the treasurer of the county.
The warrant is the process of the court, by which the fines were imposed.
§ 2295. Id. ; when delinquent resides in another county. If a delin
quent resides in another county, a separate warrant, for the collection of the
fine imposed upon him, with an appropriate schedule annexed thereto, must
be issued, in like manner, to the sheriff of the county where he resides.
§ 2296. Execution of warrant The sheriff, to whom a warrant is
issued, must collect each fine out of the personal property of the person fined,
as prescribed in chapter thirteenth of this act, for the collection, by levy,
upon and sale of personal property, of an execution issued out of a court of
record; and he is entitled to like fees thereupon. If sufficient personal
property of a delinquent cannot be found to pay the fine and the fees, the
sheriff must arrest the delinquent, and detain him in custody until he pays
the same, as upon an execution against the person, issued in an action, out
of the supreme court ; and he is entitled to like fees thereupon.
§ 2297. Return thereof The sheriff must return the warrant, with his
proceedings thereupon, at the term of the court ; or, where the fine was
imposed, in any county except New York, by the supreme court, the circuit
court, the court of oyer and terminer, or the court of sessions, at the term of
the county court ; held next after the expiration of sixty days from the
receipt thereof. If he fails so to do, the district-attorney must take the same
proceedings to compel a return, as may be taken by a judgment creditor,
where a sheriff omits to return an execution, issued out of the supreme
court.
§ 2298. Proceedings if fine not collected Where it appears, by the
return, that a fine remains uncollected, and it does not appear that the sheriff
has the delinquent in custody, the district-attorney must, if he has good
reason to believe that the sheriff might, with due diligence, have collected
the fine, or arrested and detained the delinquent, commence an action
against the sheriff, in the name of the people. Otherwise he must direct
the clerk to issue a new warrant, or to include the fine in the schedule,
annexed to the next warrant, to be issued by him. A new warrant may,
from time to time, be issued, or the fine may be included in the schedule
annexed to a subsequent warrant, until it is collected.
§ 2299. Who to be included in schedule. Where the clerk issues a
warrant as prescribed in this title, he must include in the schedule thereto
annexed, the name of each person who has been fined, prior to the issuing
thereof, and whose fine remains then wholly or partly unpaid, and not
remitted by the court.
§ 2300. Liability of sheriff. An action may be maintained, in behalf of
the people, against a sheriff to whom a warrant is directed and delivered,
as prescribed in this title, to recover damages for any omission of duty with
respect to the same, in a case where a judgment creditor might maintain an
action against a sheriff, to whom an execution issued out of the supreme
court, is directed and delivered. In such an action, the people are entitled to
recover the same damages which a judgment creditor would be entitled to
recover, if the order imposing the fine was a judgment of the supreme court.
§ 2301. Application of this title. This title does not apply to a case
where special provision for the collection of a fine is otherwise made by law.

Petition for production of tenant for life.
,
Contents of petition.
Service of petition and notice.
Proceedings upon presentation of petition.
Service of order ; powers, etc., of referee.
Habeas corpus.
Report of referee.
Dismissal of petition when order complied with.
When life-tenant deemed dead, and petitioner let into possession.
Commission to be issued if life-tenant is without the State.
General provisions respecting the commission.
Petitioner to give notice of its execution.
Execution thereof.
Proceedings on return of commission.
Costs.
Property ; when restored.
Remedy of person evicted for profits, etc.
Order not conclusive in ejectment.

§ 2302. Petition for production of tenant for life. A person entitled
to claim real property, after the death of another who has a prior estate
therein, may, not oftener than once in each calendar year, apply by petition
*o the supreme court, at a special term thereof, held within the judicial dis
trict wherein the property, or a part thereof, is situated, for an order direct
ing the production of the tenant for life, as prescribed in this title, by a
person, named in the petition, against whom an action of ejectment to recover
the real property can be maintained, if the tenant for life is dead ; or where
there is no such person, by the guardian, husband, trustee or other person,
who has, or is entitled to, the custody of the person of the tenant for life, or
the care of his estate.
§ 2303. Contents of petition The petition must be in writing, and
verified by the affidavit of the petitioner, to the effect that the matters of
fact therein set forth, are true. It must contain :
1. A description of the real property, and a statement of the petitioner's
interest therein, and of such other facts as show that the case is within the
provisions of the last section.
2. An averment that the petitioner believes that the person, upon whose
life the prior estate
statement of the
grounds upon which the petitioner's belief is founded.
§ 2304. Service of petition and notice. A copy of the petition, includ
ing the affidavit, together with notice of the time and place at which the
petition will be presented, must be personally served, at least fourteen days
before its presentation, upon the person required, by the prayer thereof, to
produce the tenant for life.
§ 2305. Proceedings upon presentation of petition. Upon the pre
sentation of the petition and affidavit,with due proof, by affidavit, of service
of a copy thereof and of the notice, if sufficient cause to the contrary is not
shown by the adverse party, the court must either issue a commission, as
prescribed in the following sections of this title ; or make an order, direct
ing the adverse party, at a time and place therein specified, before the court,

or a referee therein designated, to produce the person upon whose life the
prior estate depends, or, in default thereof, to prove that he is living.
§ 2306. Service of order ; powers, etc., of referee. Where an order,
requiring the production of the tenant for life, or proof that he is living, is
made as prescribed in the last section, a certified copy thereof must be
served, at least fourteen days before the time therein specified, upon the
person required to make the production or proof, or upon his attorney. Upon
presentation of proof of service, by affidavit, the court or the referee, must,
at the time and place specified in the order, or at the time and place to
which the hearing may be adjourned, hear the allegations and proofs of the
parties, respecting the identity of any person produced, with the person
whose death is in question ; or, if the latter person is not produced, respect
ing the reasons for the failure to produce him, and whether he is living.
Where a referee is appointed he has the same powers, and is entitled to the
same compensation, as a referee appointed for the trial of an issue in an
action.
§ 2307. Habeas corpus. If it appears, by affidavit, to the satisfaction
of the court, that the person required to be produced is imprisoned within
the State, for any cause, except upon a sentence for a felony, or is kept or
detained, within the State, by any person, the court may, either before or
after making the order for production, issue a writ of habeas corpus to bring
him before it, or before the referee, as the case requires. The writ must be
served and executed, and disobedience thereto may be punished as where
a writ of habeas corpus is issued, to inquire into the cause of the detention
of a prisoner.
§ 2308. Report of referee. The referee must deliver his report to the
petitioner, or file it with the clerk, within ten days after the case is closed.
He must state therein, whether any person was or was not produced before
him, as being the person whose death is in question. He must append
thereto, in the form of depositions, the proofs, if any, respecting the identity
of any person so produced, with the person whose death is in question ; or,
if no one is so produced, upon the question whether the latter person is
living. He must also state, in his report, his conclusions upon the questions
controverted before him.
§ 2309. Dismissal of petition when order complied with. If it
appears, to the satisfaction of the court, upon the referee's report, and the
proofs thereto appended ; or, where a referee is not appointed, upon the
allegations and proofs of the parties before the court ; that the party,
required to produce the tenant for life, or to prove his existence, has fully
complied with the order, the court must make an order, dismissing the peti
tion, and requiring the petitioner to pay the costs of the proceedings.
§ 2310. When life-tenant deemed dead, and petitioner let into pos
session. If it appears from the referee's report, or upon the hearing before
the court, that the person, upon whose life the prior estate depends, was not
produced ; and if the party required to produce him, or to prove his exist
ence, has not jiroved, to the satisfaction of the court,, that he is living; a final
order must be made, declaring that he is presumed to be dead, for the pur
pose of the proceedings, and directing that the petitioner be forthwith let
into possession of the real property, as if the person was actually dead.
§ 2311. Commission to be issued if life-tenant is without the State.
If, before or at the time of the presentation of the roferee's report to the
court, or, where a referee is not appointed, at any time before the final
order is made, the party, upon whom the petition and notice are served,
Sresents to the court presumptive proof, by affidavit, that the person, whose
eath is in question, is, or lately was, at a place certain, without the State,
the court must make an order, requiring the petitioner to take out a commis
sion, directed to one or more persons, residing at or near that place, either
designated in the order, or to be appointed upon a subsequent application
for the commission, for the purpose of obtaining a view of the- person, whose
death is in question, and of taking such testimony, respecting his identity,
as the parties produce. The order must also direct that the proceedings
upon the petition be stayed, until the return of the commission ; and that
the petition be dismissed with costs, unless the petitioner takes out the com
mission, within a time specified in the order, and diligently procures it to be
executed and returned, at his own expen- e.
§ 2312. General provisions respecting the commission. It is not
necessary, unless the court specially so directs, that the witnesses to be
examined should be named in the commission, or that interrogatories should
be annexed thereto. The commission must be executed and returned, and
the deposition taken must be filed and used, as prescribed for those purposes
in article second of title third of chapter ninth of this act, except as other
wise specially prescribed in this title.
§ 2313. Petitioner to give notice of its execution. The petitioner
must give to the adverse party, or his attorney, written notice of the time
when, and the place where, the commissioner or commissioners will attend,
for the purpose of executing the commission, as follows :
1. If the place, where the commission is to be executed, is within the
United States, or the dominion of Canada, he must give at least two months'
notice.
2. If it is within either of the West India islands, he must give at least
three months' notice.
3. In every other case, he must give at least four months' notice.
Notice may be given, as required by this section, by serving it as pre
scribed in this act for the service of a paper upon an attorney, in an action
in the supreme court.
§ 2314. Execution thereof The commissioner or commissioners possess
the same powers, and must proceed in the same manner, as a referee,
appointed by an order requiring the production of the tenant for life, or
proof of his existence ; except that they cannot proceed, unless a person is
produced before them, as being the person whose death is in question. The
return to the commission must expressly state whether any person was or
was not so produced. The testimony, respecting the identity of a person so
produced, must be taken, unless otherwise specially directed by the court, as
prescribed in chapter ninth of this act, for taking the deposition of a witness
upon oral interrogatories ; except that it is not necessary to give any other
notice of the time and place of examination, than that prescribed in the
last section.
§ 2315. Proceedings on return of commission. Upon the return of the
commission, the proceedings are the same as upon the report of a referee, as
prescribed in sections 2309 and 2310 of this act ; but the court may, in its
discretion, receive additional proofs from either party.
§ 2316. Costs. Where costs of a special proceeding, taken as prescribed
in this title, are awarded, they must be fixed by the court at a gross sum,
not exceeding fifty dollars, in addition to disbursements. Where provision
is not specially made in this title for the award of costs, they may be denied,
or awarded to or against either party, as justice requires.
§ 2317. Property ; when restored. The possession of .real property,
which has been awarded to the petitioner, as prescribed in this title, upon
the presumption of the death of the person, upon whose life the prior estate
depends, must be restored, by the order of the court, to the person evicted,
or to his heirs or legal representatives, upon the petition of the latter, and
proof, to the satisfaciion of the court, that the person presumed to be dead is
living. The proceedings upon such an application are the same, as pre
scribed in this title, upon the application of the person to whom possession
is awarded.
§ 2318. Remedy of person evicted for profits, etc. A person evicted,
as prescribed in this title, may, if the presumption, upon which he is evicted,
is erroneous, maintain an action against the person who has occupied the
property, or his executor or administrator, to recover the rents and profits of
the property, during the occupation, while the person, upon whose life the
prior estate depends, is or was living.
§ 2319. Order not conclusive in ejectment. A final order, made as
prescribed in this title, awarding to the petitioner the possession of real
property, is presumptive evidence only, in an action of ejectment, brought
against him by the person evicted, or in an action brought as prescribed in
the last section, of the life or death of the person, upon whose life the prior
lestate depends.

Jurisdiction ; concurrent jurisdiction.
Duty of court having jurisdiction.
Committee may be appointed.
Application for committee ; by whom made.
Duty of certain officers to apply.
Contents, etc., of petition; proceedings upon presentation thereof.
When foreign committee may be appointed.
Order for commission, or for trial by jury in court.
Contents of commission.
Commissioners to be sworn ; vacancies, how filled.
Jury to be procured ; proceedings thereupon.
Proceedings upon the hearing.
Return of inquisition and commission.
Expenses of commission.
Proceedings upon trial by jury in court.
Subject of inquiry in cases of lunacy.
Proceedings upon verdict, or return of commission.
Security to be given by committee.
Compensation of committee.
Committee under control of court; limitation of powers.
Committee of property may maintain actions, etc.
Id. ; to file inventory and account.
Id. ; may be compelled to file the same or render an additional account, etc.
Property, when to be restored.
Id. ; disposition in case of death.
§ 2320. Jurisdiction ; concurrent jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the
supreme court extends to the custody of the person, and the care of the
property, of a person incompetent to manage himself or his affairs, in conse
quence of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunkenness. Where a superior city
court, or a county court, or both, have jurisdiction of those matters, concur
rent with that of the supreme court, the jurisdiction of the court first exer
cising it, as prescribed in this title, is exclusive of that of the others, with
respect to any matter within its jurisdiction, for which provision is made in
this title.
§ 2321. Duty of court having jurisdiction. The court exercising juris
diction over the property of either of the incompetent persons, specified in
the last section ; must preserve his property from waste or destruction ; and,
out of the proceeds thereof, must provide for the payment of his debts, and
for the safe keeping and maintenance, and the education, when required, of
the incompetent person and his family.
§ 2322. Committee may be appointed. The jurisdiction, specified in
the last two sections, must be exercised by means of a committee of the per
son, or a committee of the property, or of a particular portion of the prop
erty, of the incompetent person, appointed as prescribed in this title. The
committee of the person and the committee of the property may be the same
individual, or different individuals, in the discretion of the court.
§ 2323. Application for committee ; by whom made. An application
for the appointment of such a committee must be made by petition, which
may be presented by any person. Where the application is made to the
supreme court, the petition must be presented at a special term, held within
the judicial district where the person alleged to be incompetent resides ; or,
if he is not a resident of the State, or the place of his residence cannot be
ascertained, where some of his property is situated.
§ 2324. Duty of certain officers to apply. Where the incompetent
person has property, which may be endangered in consequence of his incom
petency, and no relative or other person applies for the appointment of a
committee of his property, the overseer or superintendent of the poor of the
town, district, county, or city, in which he resides, or, where there is no such
officer, the officer or officers performing corresponding functions under another
official title, must apply to the proper court, for the appointment of such a
committee. The expenses of conducting the proceedings thereupon must be
audited and allowed, in the same manner as other official expenses of those
officers are audited and allowed.
§ 2325. Contents, etc., of petition ; proceedings upon presentation
thereof The petition must be in writing, and verified by the affidavit of
the petitioner, or his attorney, to the effect that the matters of fact therein
stated are true. It must be accompanied with proof, by affidavit, that the
case is one of those specified in this title. It must set forth the names and
residences of the husband or wife, if any, and of the next of kin and heirs,
of the person alleged to be incompetent, as far as the same are known to the
petitioner, or can, with reasonable diligence, be ascertained by him. The
court must, unless sufficient reasons for dispensing therewith are set forth,
in the petition or accompanying affidavit, require notice of the presentation
of the petition to be given to the husband or wife, if any, or to one or more
of the relatives of the person alleged to be incompetent, or to an officer speci
fied in the last section. Where notice is required, it may be given in any
manner, which the court deems proper ; and for that purpose, the hearing
may be adjourned to a subsequent day, or to another term, at which the
petition might have been presented.
§ 2326. When foreign committee may be appointed. Where the
person, alleged to be incompetent, resides without the State, and within the
United States, and a committee or guardian of his property has been duly
appointed, pursuant to the laws of the State or territory where he resides,
the court may, in its discretion, make an order, appointing the foreign com
mittee, or foreign guardian, the committee of all, or of a particular portion,
of the property of the incompetent person, within the State, upon his giving
such security for the discharge of his trust, as the court thinks proper.
§ 2327. Order for commission, or for trial by jury in court. Unless
an order is made, as prescribed in the last section, if it presumptively appears,
to the satisfaction of the court, from the petition and the proofs accompany
ing it, that the case is one of those specified in this title ; and that a com
mittee ought, in the exercise of a sound discretion, to be appointed ; the
court must make an order, directing, either :
1. That a commission issue, as prescribed in the next section, to one or
more fit persons, designated in the order ; or
2. That the questions of fact, arising upon the competency of the person,
with respect to whom the petition prays for the appointment of a committee,
be tried by a jury, at a trial term of the court ; or, if the petition was pre
sented to the supreme court, at a term of the circuit court for a county speci
fied in the order.
§ 2328. Contents of commission The commission must direct the com
missioners to cause the sheriff of a county, specified therein, to procure a
jury ; and that they inquire, by the jury, into the matters set forth in the
petition; and also into the value of the real and personal property of tho
person alleged to be incompetent, and the amount of his income. It may
contain such other directions, with respect to the subject of inquiry, or the
manner of executing the commission, as the court directs to be inserted
therein.
§ 2329. Commissioners to be sworn ; vacancies, how filled Each
commissioner, before entering upon the execution of his duties, must sub
scribe and take, before one of the officers specified in section 842 of this act,
and file with the clerk, an oath, faithfully, honestly, and impartially to dis
charge the trust committed to him. If a commissioner becomes incompetent,
or neglects or refuses to serve, or removes from the State, the court may
remove him. The court may, from time to time, fill any vacancy created by
death, removal, or resignation.
§ 2330. Jury to be procured Proceedings thereupon The com
missioners, or a majority of them, must immediately issue a precept to the
sheriff, designated in the commission, requiring him to notify, not less than
twelve nor more than twenty-four indifferent persons, qualified to serve, and
not exempt from serving, as trial jurors in the same court, to appear before
the commissioners, at a specified time, and place, within the county, to make
inquiry, as commanded by the commission. The sheriff must notify the
jurors accordingly ; and must return the precept, and the names of the per
sons notified, to the commissioners, at the time and place specified in the
precept. The commissioners, or a majority of them, must determined a chal
lenge made to a juror. Upon the failure to attend, of a person who has been
duly notified, his attendance may be compelled ; and he may be punished
by the court for a contempt, as where a juror, duly notified, fails to attend
at a circuit court, or a trial term of the court. The commissioners may
require the sheriff to cause a talesman to attend, in place of a juror notified,
and not attending, or who is excused or discharged ; or they may adjourn
the proceedings, for the purpose of punishing the defaulting juror, or com
pelling his attendance. But it is not necessary to cause any talesman to
attend, if at least twelve of the persons, notified by the sheriff, appear and
are sworn.
§ 2331. Proceedings upon the hearing. All the commissioners must
attend and preside at the hearing ; and they, or a majority of them, have,
■with respect to the prcoeedings upon the hearing, all the power and author
ity of a judge of the court, holding a trial term, subject to the directions
contained in the commission. Either of the commissioners may administer
the usual oath to the jurors. At least twelve jurors must concur in a finding.
If twelve do not concur, the jurors must report their disagreement to the
commissioners, who must thereupon discharge them, and issue a new pre
cept to the sheriff, to procure another jury.
§ 2332. Return of inquisition and commission. The inquisition must
be signed by the jurors concurring therein, and by the commissioners, or a
majority of them, and annexed to the commission. The commission and
inquisition must be returned by the commissioners, and filed with the clerk.
§ 2333. Expenses of commission. The commissioners are entitled to
such compensation for their services, as the court directs. The jurors are
entitled to the same compensation, as jurors upon the trial of an issue in an
action in the same court. The petitioner must pay the compensation of the
commissioners, sheriff, and jurors.
§ 2334. Proceedings upon trial by jury in court Where an order is
made, directing the trial, by a jury, at a trial term or at a circuit court, of
the questions of fact, arising upon the competency of the person, with
respect to whom the petition prays for the appointment of a committee, the
order must state, distinctly and plainly, the questions of fact to be tried ;
which maybe settled as where an order for a similar trial is made in an action.
The court may, in that or in a subsequent order, direct that notice of the
trial be given to such persons, and in such a manner, as it deemed proper.
The trial must be reviewed in the same manner, with like effect, and,
except as otherwise directed in the order, the proceedings thereupon are, in
all respects, the same, as where questions of fact are tried, pursuant to an
order for that purpose. The court may make inquiry, by means of a refer
ence or otherwise, as it thinks proper, with respect to any matter, not
involved in the questions tried by the jury, the determination of which is
necessary in the course of the proceedings. The expenses of the trial, and
of such an inquiry, must be paid by the petitioner.
§ 2335. Subject of inquiry in cases of lunacy. Where the petition
alleges, that the person, with respect to whom it prays for the appointment
of a committee, is incompetent, by reason of lunacy, the inquiry with respect
to his competency, upon the execution of a commission, or the trial at a
circuit court or trial term, as prescribed in this title, must be confined to
the question, whether he is so incompetent, at the time of the inquiry ; and
testimony, respecting any thing said or done by him, or his demeanor or
state of mind, more than two years before the hearing or trial, shall not be
received as proof of lunacy, unless the court otherwise specially directs, in
the order granting the commission, or directing the trial by jury.
§ 2336. Proceedings upon verdict or return of commission. Upon
the return of the commission, with the inquisition taken thereunder, or the
rendering of the verdict of the jury, upon the questions submitted to it by
the order for a trial by a jury, the court must either direct a new trial or
hearing, or make such a final order upon the petition, as justice requires.
"Where a final order is made, dismissing a petition, the court may, in its dis
cretion, award in the order a fixed sum, as costs, not exceeding fifty dollars
and disbursements, to be paid by the petitioner to the adverse party. Where
a committee of the property is appointed, the court must direct the payment
by him out of the funds in his hands, of the necessary disbursements of the
petitioner, and of such a sum, for his costs and counsel fees, as it thinks rea
sonable ; and it may, in its discretion, direct the committee to pay a sum,
not exceeding fifty dollars and disbursements, to the attorney for any adverse
party.
§ 2337. Security to be given by committee. The provisions of article
first of title seventh of chapter eighteenth of this act, respecting the security
to be given by the guardian of the person or of the property of an infant,
appointed by a surrogate's court, apply to a committee of the person or of
the property, appointed as prescribed in this article. A committee of the
property cannot enter upon the execution of his duties, until security is
given, as prescribed by the court. A committee of the person cannot enter
upon the execution of his duties, until security is given, if required by the
court.
§ 2338. Compensation of committee. A committee of the property is
entitled to the same compensation as an executor or administrator. But in
a special case, where his services exceed those of an executor or administra
tor, the supreme court or a superior city court may allow him such an addi
tional compensation for such additional services, as it deems just. The
compensation of a committeo of the person must be fixed by the court, and
paid by the committee of the property, if any, out of the funds in his hands.
§ 2339. Committee under control of court ; limitation of powers. A
committee, either of the person or of the property, is subject to the direc
tion and control of the court by which he was appointed, with respect to the
execution of his duties; and he may be suspended, removed, or allowed to
resign, in the discretion of the court. A vacancy created by death, removal,
or resignation, may be filled by the court. But a committee of the property
cannot alien, mortgage, or otherwise dispose of, real property, except to lease
it for a term not exceeding five years, without the special direction of the
court, obtained upon proceedings taken for that purpose, as prescribed in
title seventh of this chapter.
§ 2340. Committee of property may maintain actions, etc. A com
mittee of the property, appointed as prescribed in- this title, may maintain,
in his own name, adding his official title, any action or special proceeding,
which the person, with respect to whom he is appointed, might have main
tained, if the appointment had not been made.
§ 2341. Id. ; to file inventory and account The provisions of article
second of title seventh of chapter eighteenth of this act, requiring the gen
eral guardian of an infant's property, appointed by a surrogate s court, to
file, in the month of January of each year, an inventory account, and
affidavit, a id prescribing the form of the papers so to be filed, apply to a
committee of the property, appointed as prescribed in this title. For the
purpose of making that application, the committee is deemed a general
guardian of the property; the person, with respect to whom he is appointed,
is deemed a ward ; and the papers must be filed in the cfiice of the clerk of
the court, by which the committee was appointed ; or, if he was appointed
by the supreme court, in the clerk's office where the order appointing him is
entered.
§ 2342. Id. ; may be compelled to file the same or render an addi
tional account, etc. In the month of February of each year, the presiding
judge of the court, by which the committee of the property was appointed ;
or, if he was appointed by the supreme court, the county judge of the county
where the order appointing him is entered ; must examine, or cause to be
examined under his direction, all accounts and inventories filed by commit
tees of the property, since the first day of February of the preceding year.
If it appears, upon the examination, that a committee, appointed as pre
scribed in this title, has omitted to file his annual inventory or account, or
the affidavit relating thereto, as prescribed in the last section ; or if the
judge is of opinion that the interest of the person, with respect to whom the
committee was appointed, requires that he should render a more full or sat
isfactory inventory or account ; the judge must make an order, requiring
the committee to supply the deficiency, and also, in his discretion, person
ally to pay the expense of serving the order upon him. An order so made
may be entered and enforced, and the failure to obey it may be punished,
as if it was made by the court. Where the committee fails to comply with
the order, within three months after it is made ; or, where the judge has
reason to believe, that sufficient cause exists for the removal of the commit
tee, the judge may, in his discretion, appoint a fit person special guardian of
the incompetent person, with respect to whom the committee was appointed,
for the purpose of filing a petition in his behalf, for the removal of the com
mittee, and prosecuting the necessary proceedings for that purpose. The
committee may be compelled, in the discretion of the court, to pay person
ally the costs of the proceedings so instituted.
§ 2343. Property ; when to be restored. Where a person, with respect
to whom a committee is appointed, as prescribed in this title, becomes com
petent to manage himself or his affairs, the court must make an order, dis
charging the committee of his property, or the committee of his person, or
both, as the case requires ; and requiring the former committee to restore to
him the property, remaining in the committee's hands. Thereupon the
property must be restored accordingly.
§ 2344. Id. ; disposition in case of death Where a person, of whose
property a committee has been appointed, as prescribed in this title, dies
during his incompetency, the power of the committee ceases ; and the prop
erty of the decedent must be administered and disposed of, as if a commit
tee had not been appointed.
Action to compel conveyance.
Who may maintain action.
Judgment; effect thereof.
Application to dispose of real property ; in what cases.
Id. ; by whom.
Contents of petition.
Bond of committee of lunatic etc.
§ 2345. Action to compel conveyance. In either of the following
cases, an action may be maintained against an infant, or a person incompe
tent to manage his affairs by reason of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunken
ness, to procure a judgment, directing a conveyance of real property, or of
an interest in real property.
1. Where the infant or incompetent person is seized or possessed of the
real property, or interest in real property, by way of mortgage, or only in
trust for another.
2. Where a valid contract for the sale or conveyance of the real property,
or interest in real property, has been made ; but a conveyance thereof cannot
be made, by reason of the infancy or incompetency of the person in whom
the title is vested.
§ 2346. Who may maintain action. An action may be maintained, in a
case specified in the last section, by a person entitled to the conveyance ; and
also in a case specified in subdivision second of. that section, by the executor
or administrator of the person who made the contract, or of a person who
died seized or possessed of the real property, or interest in real property, or
by an heir or devisee of either of those persons, to whom the real property
has descended, or was devised. The action may be maintained by the commit
tee of the lunatic or other incompetent person ; but in that case the court must
appoint a special guardian jor tiie incompetent person, as required by law, where
an infant is defendant, and the proceedings are the same as in a like action against
an infant. [Am'd Ch. 399 op 1882. See § 2.]
§ 2347. Judgment; effect thereof A judgment, directing such a con
veyance, shall not be rendered, unless the court, after hearing the parties,
is satisfied that the conveyance ought to be made. Upon rendering final
judgment to that effect, the court has power to direct the guardian of the
infant's property, or the committee of the property of the lunatic or other
incompetent person, or a special guardian appointed in the action, to execute
any conveyance, or to do any other act, which is necessary, in order to carry
the judgment into effect.
§ 2348. Application to dispose of real property ; in what cases. In
either of the following cases, real property, or a term, estate, or other inter
est in real property, belonging to an infant, or to a person incompetent to
manage his affairs, by reason of lunacy, idiccy, or habitual drunkenness,
may be sold, conveyed, mortgaged, or leased, as prescribed in the following
sections of this title :
1. Where the personal property, and the income of the real property, of
the infant or incompetent person, are, together, insufficient for the payment
of his debts, or for the maintenance and necessary education of himself and
his family.
2. Where the interests of the infant or incompetent person require, or will
be substantially promoted by, such disposition, on account of the real prop3. Where an action might be maintained, against the infant or incompe
tent person, to procure a judgment, directing a conveyance of the real prop
erty, or interest in real property, as prescribed in sections 2345 and 2346 of
this act.
§ 2349. Id. ; by whom. An application, in either of ths cases prescribed
in the last section, must be made by the petition of the general guardian, or
the guardian of the property of the infant ; or by the committee of the prop
erty of the lunatic or other incompetent person ; or by any relative, or other
person, in behalf of either. Where the application is in behalf of an infant
of the age of fourteen years or upwards, the infant must join therein. Where
the application is made to the supreme court, the petition must be presented
at a term held within the judicial district, in which the property, or a part
thereof, is situated.
§ 2350. Contents of petition The petition must be verified, in like
manner, as a verified pleading in an action in the supreme court. It must
set forth the grounds of the application ; and, in a case specified in subdi
vision first or second of the last section but one, it must also state the par
ticulars and value of the real and personal property, and the amount of the
income, of the infant or incompetent person ; the disposition which has been
made of his personal property ; and an account of the debts or demands, if
any, existing against his estate.
§ 2351. Bond of committee of lunatic, etc. An application to sell,
mortgage, or lease real property, or an interest in real property, of a lunatic,
idiot, or habitual drunkard, cannot be granted, unless a committee of his
property has been appointed. Upon such an application, if it is made by
the committee, the court must make an order, directing him to file with the
clerk a bond, in such a form, in such an amount, and with such sureties, as
it directs, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his trust ; for the paying
over and investing of, and accounting for, all money received by him in the
special proceeding, according to the direction of any court having authority
to give directions in the premises ; and for the observance of the directions
of the court, in relation to the trust. If the application is made by any
other person, an order must be made thereupon, requiring the committee to
show cause why he should not file such a bond. If, after hearing the com
mittee, the court is of opinion, that there is probable cause for granting the
application, it may make an order, requiring the committee to file such a
bond ; or, if the committee so elects, or fails to file the bond as directed in
the order, it may appoint a suitable person to be the special guardian of the
incompetent person, with respect to the proceedings ; who must thereupon
file such a bond.
§ 2352. Id. ; of guardian of infant Upon an application to sell, mort
gage, or lease real property, or an interest in real property, of an infant, the
court must appoint a suitable person to be the special guardian of the infant,
with respect to the proceedings ; who must thereupon file with the clerk a
bond, as prescribed in the last section.
§ 2353. Bond ; how prosecuted Upon a breach of the condition of a
bond, given as prescribed in either of the last two sections, the court must
direct it to be prosecuted for the benefit of the person injured.
§ 2354. Reference to inquire into the application. Upon the presenta
tion of the petition, and the filing of the bond, the court must make an order,
appointing a suitable person a referee, to inquire into the merits of the
application. The referee must examine into the truth of the allegations of
the petition ; hear the allegations and proofs of all persons interested in the
property, or otherwise interested in the application ; and report his opinion
thereupon, together with the testimony, with all convenient speed.
§ 2355. Final order. Upon the filing of the referee's report, and after
examining into the matter, the court must make a final order upon the
application. In a proper case, a final order, confirming the referee s report
must direct that the real property, or term, estate, or other interest in real
property or a part thereof, as is necessary, or as justice requires, be mort
gaged, let for a term of years, sold or conveyed, by the special guardian,
appointed as prescribed in this title, or by the committee of the property of
the lunatic or other incompetent person. The final order may also contain
such directions, respecting the time, manner, and conditions of a sale or
conveyance directed thereby, as the court thinks proper to insert therein.
§ 2356. Report of sale, etc. Before a sale, mortgage, or lease can be
made, pursuant to the final order, the special guardian, or the committee,
must enter into an agreement therefore, subject to the approval of the court ;
and must report the agreement to the court, under oath. Upon the confir
mation thereof, by the order of the court, he must execute, as directed by
the court, a deed, mortgage, or lease. Where the final order directs the
execution of a conveyance in the first instance, for the purpose of fulfilling
a contract, or because the property is held by way of mortgage, or in trust
only, the guardian or committee executing the conveyance, must report the
conveyance to the court, under oath.
§ 2357. Certain sales, etc., prohibited. Eeal property, or an interest in
real property, shall not be sold, leased, or mortgaged, as prescribed in this
title, contrary to the provisions of a will, by which it was devised, or of a
conveyance or other instrument, by which it was transferred to the infant or
incompetent person.
§ 2358. Effect of conveyance, etc. A deed, mortgage, or lease, made,
In good faith, as prescribed in this title, either upon an application in behalf
of an infant or an incompetent person, or pursuant to the directions con
tained in a judgment rendered against him, has the same validity and effect
as if it was executed by the person in whose behalf it was executed, and as
if the infant was of full age, or the lunatic, idiot, or habitual drunkard, was
of sound mind, and competent to manage his affairs.
§ 2359. Proceeds of sale deemed real property. A sale of real
property, or of an interest in real property, of an infant or incompetent
person, made as prescribed in this title, does not give to the infant or incom
petent person, any other or greater interest in the proceeds of the sale than
he had in the property or interest sold. Those proceeds are deemed property
of the same nature as the estate or interest sold, until the infant arrives at
full age, or the incompetency is removed.
§ 2360. Infant deemed a ward of court From the time of the filing
of a petition by or in behalf of an infant, praying for an order directing a
conveyance, or a sale, mortgage or lease of his real property, or of an interest
in real property, the infant is considered a ward of the court, with respect
to that real property or interest, and the income and proceeds thereof.
J! 2361. Disposition of proceeds ; accounting. The court must, by
er, direct the disposition of the proceeds of such a sale, mortgage or
lease. It must direct the investment of any portion thereof belonging to
the infant or incompetent person, which is not needed for the payment of
debts,' or the safe keeping, or the immediate maintenance and education of
himself or his family. It must require a report, under oath, of the disposi
tion and investment thereof, to be made as soon as practicable, and must
compel periodical accounts to be rendered thereafter, by each person who is
entrusted with the proceeds, or any part thereof.
§ 2362. Particular estates ; when included in sale. Where the real
property, or the estate, term, or other interest in real property, directed to
be sold, is subject, absolutely or contingently, to a right of dower, or an
estate for life, or is subject to an estate for years, in the whole or any part
thereof, the person having the prior right or estate, may manifest in writing
his consent, either to receive from the proceeds of the sale, a gross sum, to
be fixed according to the principles of law applicable to annuities, in satis
faction of his right or estate ; or to have a proportionate share of the proceeds
of the sale invested, and the interest thereof paid to him, from the time of
the investment, or of the commencement of his right or estate, as justice
requires, until the determination of his right or estate. Upon filing the con
sent with the clerk, the final order may in the discretion of the court, direct
a sale of the entire property to which the right or estate attaches. In such
a case, the court must, after the sale, ascertain the value of the right or
interest of the person so consenting ; and the final order must either direct
the payment, from the proceeds of the sale, of the gross sum so ascertained
as the value, or the investment of a just proportion of the proceeds, and the
payment to him of the interest thereof. But such a gross sum shall not be
paid, nor shall such an investment be made, until an effectual release of the
right or estate of the person so consenting, executed to the satisfaction of
the court, and duly acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner
as a deed to be recorded in the county, has been filed with the clerk.
8 2363. Id. ; when belonging to infant, etc. Where the interest of the
infant, or of the lunatic or other incompetent person, consists of a right of
dower, or an estate for life, or for years, the final order may authorize the
special guardian or committee to join, with the person or persons holding
the reversionary estate, in a conveyance of the property to which the interest
attaches, so as to release the right of dower, or fully convey the particular
estate, on receiving, from the proceeds of the sale, a gross sum, in satisfac
tion of that interest, or a proportionate part of the proceeds, to be invested
until the determination of the particular estate ; and, in either case, to be
ascertained as prescribed in the last section. Where a proportion of the
proceeds is so received by the guardian or committee, for investment, the
final order must provide for the investment thereof, until the determination
of the particular estate ; and then for the payment thereof to the person
§ 2364. Debts of infant, etc., to be paid equally. In the application
of money, arising from a sale, mortgage, or lease, made for the purpose of
paying debts, as prescribed in this title, the special guardian of the infant,
or the committee of the property of the incompetent person, must pay all
debts, in equal proportion, without giving a preference to a debt founded
upon a specialty, or upon which judgment has been taken.

§ 2365. When submission to arbitration cannot be made. A submis
sion of a controversy to arbitration cannot be made, either as prescribed in
this title or otherwise, in either of the following cases :
1. Where one of the parties to the controversy is an infant, or a person
incompetent to manage his affairs, by reason of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual
drunkenness.
2. Where the controversy arises respecting a claim to an estate in real
property, in fee or for life.
But where a person, capable of entering into a submission, has knowingly
entered into the same with a person incapable of so doing, as prescribed in
subdivision first of this section, the objection, on the ground of incapacity,
can be taken only in behalf of the person so incapacitated. And the second
subdivision of this section does not prevent the submission of a claim to an
estate for years, or other interest for a term of years, or for one year or less
in real property ; or of a controversy respecting the partition of real property
between joint tenants or tenants in common ; or of a controversy respecting
the boundaries of lands, or the admeasurement of dower.
§ 2366. What controversies may be submitted, and how. Except
as otherwise prescribed in the last section, two or more persons may, by an
instrument in writing, duly acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like
manner as a deed to be recorded, submit, to the arbitration of one or more
arbitrators, any controversy, existing between them at the time of the sub
mission, which might be the subject of an action. They may, in the sub
mission, agree that a judgment of a court of record, specified in the instru
ment, shall be rendered upon the award, made pursuant to the submission.
If the supreme court is thus specified, the submission may also specify the
county in which the judgment shall be entered. If it does not, the judg
ment may be entered in any county.
§ 2367. Appointment of additional arbitrator or umpire. Where a
submission is made as prescribed in this title, and additional arbitrator, or
an umpire cannot be selected or appointed, unless the submission expressly
60 provides. Where a submission, made either as prescribed in this title
or otherwise, provides that two or more arbitrators, therein designated, may
select or appoint a person as an additional arbitrator or as an umpire, the
selection or appointment must be in writing. An additional arbitrator or
umpire must sit with the original arbitrators, upon the hearing. If testi
mony has been taken before his selection or appointment, the matter must be
reheard, unless a rehearing is waived in the submission, or by the subsequent
written consent of the parties, or their attorneys.
§ 2368. Time for hearing ; adjournment, etc. Subject to the terms of
the submission, if any are specified therein, the arbitrators, selected as
prescribed in this title, must appoint a time and place for the hearing of
the matters submitted to them ; and must cause notice thereof to be given
to each of the parties. They, or a majority of them, may adjourn the hear
ing, from time to time, upon the application of either party, for good cause
shown, or upon their own motion ; but not beyond the day fixed in the
submission for rendering their award, unless the time so fixed is extended
by the written consent of the parties to the submission, or their attorneys.
§ 2369. Arbitrators to be sworn. Before hearing any testimony, arbi
trators selected either as prescribed in this title or otherwise must be sworn,
by an officer designated in section 842 of this act, faithfully and fairly to
hear and examine the matters in controversy, and to make a just award,
according to the best of their understanding ; unless the oath is waived by
the written consent of the parties to the submission, or their attorneys.
§ 2370. Attendance of witnesses, etc. The arbitrators, selected either
as prescribed in this title, or otherwise, or a majority of them, may require
any person to attend before them as a witness ; and they have, and each of
them has, the same powers, with respect to all the proceedings before them,
which are conferred, by the provisions of title second of chapter ninth of this
act, upon a board, or a member of a board, authorized by law to hear testi
mony.
§ 2371. All the arbitrators to meet ; when majority may award.
Fees. All the arbitrators, selected as prescribed in this title, must meet
together, and hear all the allegations and proofs of the parties ; but an
award by a majority of them is valid, unless the concurrence of all is
expressly required in the submission. Unless it is otherwise expressly
provided in the submission, the award may require the payment, by either
party, of the arbitrators' fees, not exceeding the fees allowed to a like
number of referees in the supreme court ; and also their expenses.
^ 2372. Award ; to be authenticated, etc. To entitle the award to be
enforced, as prescribed in this title, it must be in writing ; and, within the
time limited in the submission, if any, subscribed by the arbitrators making
it ; acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be
recorded ; and either filed in the office of the clerk of the court, in which
by the submission, judgment is authorized to be entered upon the award,
or delivered to one of the parties, or his attorney.
§ 2373. Motion to confirm award At any time within one year after
the award is made, as prescribed in the last section, any party to the sub
mission may apply to the court, specified in the submission, for an order
confirming the award ; and thereupon the court must grant such an order,
unless the award is vacated, modified, or corrected, as prescribed in the next
two sections. Notice of the motion must be served, upon the adverse party
to the submission, or his attorney, as prescribed by law for service of notice
of a motion upon an attorney in an action in the same court. In the supreme
court, the motion must be made within the judicial district, embracing the
county where the judgment is to be entered.
§ 2374. Id. ; to vacate award. In either of the following cases, the
court, specified in the submission, must make an order vacating the award,
upon the application of either party to the submission :
1. Where the award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other undue
means.
2. Where there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbitrators, or
either of them.
3. Where the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, in refusing to post
pone the hearing, upon sufficient cause shown, or in refusing to hear evidence,
pertinent and material to the controversy ; or of any other misbehavior, by
which the rights of any party have been prejudiced.
4. Where the arbitrators exceeded their powers, or so imperfectly executed
them, that a mutual, final, and definite award, upon the subject matter sub
mitted, was not made.
Where an award is vacated, and the time within which the submission
requires the award to be made, has not expired, the court may, in its dis
cretion, direct a rehearing by the arbitrators.
§ 2375. Id. ; to modify or correct award. In either of the following
cases, the court, specified in the submission, must make an order modifying
or correcting the award, upon the application of either party to the submisspn :
1. Where there was an evident miscalculation of figures, or an evident
mistake in the description of any person, thing, or property, referred to in
the award.
2. Where the arbitrators have awarded upon a matter not submitted to
them, not affecting the merits of the decision upon the matters submitted.
3. Where the award is imperfect in a matter of form, not affecting the
merits of the controversy, and, if it had been a referee's report, the defect
could have been amended or disregarded by the court.
The order may modify and correct the award, so as to effect the intent
thereof, and promote justice between the parties.
§ 2376. Motions ; when to be made. Notice of a motion to vacate,
modify, or correct an award, must be served upon the adverse party to the
submission, or his attorney, within three months after the award is filed or
delivered as prescribed by law for service of notice of a motion upon an
attorney in an action. For the purposes of the motion, any judge, who might
make an order to stay the proceedings, in an action brought in the same
court, may make an order, to be served with the notice of motion, staying
the proceedings of adverse party to enforce the award.
§ 2377. Costs on vacating award. Where the court vacates an award,
costs, not exceeding twenty-five dollars and disbursements, may be awarded
to the prevailing party ; and the payment thereof may be enforced, in like
manner as the payment of costs upon a motion in an action.
§ 2378. Judgment on award ; when and how entered. Costs. Upon
the granting of an order, confirming, modifying, or correcting an award,
judgment may be entered in conformity therewith, as upon a referee'
, report in an action, except as is otherwise prescribed in this title. Costs of
the application, and of the proceedings subsequent thereto, not exceeding
twenty-five dollars and disbursements, may be awarded by the court, in its
discretion. If awarded, the amount thereof must be included in the judg
ment.
§ 2379. Judgment-roll Immediately after entering judgment, the clerk
must attach together and file the following papers, which constitute the
judgment-roll :
1. The submission ; the selection or appointment, if any, of an additional
arbitrator, or umpire ; and each written extension of the time, if any, within
which to make the award.
2. The award.
3. Each notice, affidavit, or other paper, used upon an application to con
firm, modify, or correct the award, and a copy of each order of the court,
upon such an application.
4. A copy of the judgment.
The judgment may be docketed, as if it was rendered in an action.
§ 2380. Effect of judgment ; how enforced. The judgment so entered
has the same force and effect, in all respects, as, and is subject to all the
provisions of law relating to, a judgment in an action; and it may be
enforced, as if it had been rendered in an action in the court in which it is
entered.
§ 2381. Appeal. An appeal may be taken from an order vacating an
award, or from a judgment entered upon an award, as from an order or
judgment in an action. The proceedings upon such an appeal, including
the judgment thereupon, and the enforcement of the judgment, are governed
by the provisions of chapter twelfth of this act, as far as they are applicable.
§ 2382. Effect of party's death, lunacy, etc. ; proceedings there
upon. The death of a party to a submission, made either as prescribed in
this title or otherwise, or the appointment of a committee of the person or
property of such a party, as prescribed in title sixth of this chapter, operates
as a revocation of the submission, if it occurs before the award is filed or
delivered ; but not afterwards. Where a party dies afterwards, if the sub
mission contains a stipulation, authorizing the entry of a judgment upon the
award, the award may be confirmed, vacated, modified, or corrected, upon
the application of, or upon notice to, his executor or administrator, or a
temporary administrator of his estate ; or, where it relates to real property,
his heir or devisee, who has succeeded to his interest in the real property.
Where a committee of the property, or of the person, of a party, is appointed,
after the award is filed or delivered, the award may be confirmed, vacated,
modified, or corrected, upon the application of, or notice to, a committee of
the property; but not otherwise. In a case specified in this section, a judge
of the court may make an order, extending the time within which notice of
a motion to vacate, modify, or correct the award, must be served. Upon
confirming an award, where a party has died since it was filed or delivered,
the court must enter judgment in the name of the original party ; and the
proceedings thereupon are the same, as where a party dies after a verdict.
$ 2383. Revocation of submission. A submission to arbitration, made
either as prescribed in this title or otherwise, cannot be revoked by either
party, after the allegations and proofs of the parties have been closed, and
the matter finally submitted to the arbitrators for their decision. A revoca
tion when allowed, must be made by an instrument in writing, signed by
the revoking party, or his authorized agent, and delivered to the arbitrators,
or one of them; and it is not necessary, in any case, that the instrument of
revocation should be under seal. Any party to a submission may thus
revoke it ; whether he is a sole party to the controversy, or one of two or
more parties on the same side.
§ 2384. Liability of party who revokes. Where a party expressly
revokes a submission, made either as prescribed in this title or otherwise,
any other party to the submission may maintain an action against him, and
also against his sureties, if any, upon the submission, or any instrument
collateral thereto, in which action the plaintifff may recover all the costs and
other expenses, and all the damages, which he has incurred in preparing for
the arbitration, and in conducting the proceedings to the time of the revoca
tion. Either of the arbitrators may recover, in an action against the revoking
party, his reasonable fees and expenses.
§ 2385. Limitation of recovery against him. A sum, penalty, forfeit
ure, or damages, shall not be recovered for a revocation of a submission to
arbitration, made either as prescribed in this title or otherwise, except as
prescribed in the last section ; notwithstanding any stipulated damages,
penalty or forfeiture, expressed in the submission, or in any instrument
collateral thereto.
§ 2386. Application of this title. This title does not affect any right of
action in affirmance, disaffirmance, or for the modification of a submission,
made either as prescribed in this title or otherwise, or upon an instrument
collateral thereto, or upon an award made or purporting to be made in pur
suance thereof. And, except as otherwise expressly prescribed therein, this
title does not affect a -submission made otherwise than as prescribed therein,
or any proceedings taken pursuant to such a submission, or any instrument
collateral thereto.

When mortgage may be foreclosed.
Notice of sale ; how given.
Id. ; how served.
Duty of county clerk.
Contents of notice of sale.
Sale ; how postponed.
Id. ; how conducted.
Mortgagee, etc., may purchase.
Effect of sale.
Affidavit of sale, and of posting, serving, etc., notices.
Whon one affidavit suffices ; printed notice to be annexed.
Affidavits may be filed and recorded.
Note upon record of mortgage.
Deed not necessary.
Costa allowed.
Expenses allowed.
Taxation thereof.
Surplus money to be paid into supreme court.
Claimant of surplus money to file petition.
Application for surplus money.
Order for distribution.
Limitation of last four sections.
Application of this title to mortgages to the State.
§ 2387. When mortgage may be foreclosed. A mortgage upon real
property, situated within the State, containing therein a power to the mortfagee, or any other person, to sell the mortgaged property, upon default
eing made in a condition of the mortgage, may be foreclosed, in the man
ner prescribed in this title, where the following requisites concur :
1. Default has been made in a condition of the mortgage, whereby the
power to sell has become operative.
2. An action has not been brought to recover the debt secured by the
mortgage, or any part thereof ; or, if such an action has been brought, it has
been discontinued, or final judgment has been rendered therein against the
plaintifff, or an execution, issued upon a judgment rendered therein in favor
of the plaintifff, has been returned wholly or partly unsatisfied.
3. The mortgage has been recorded in the proper book for recording
mortgages, in the county wherein the property is situated.
§ 2388. Notice of sale ; how given. The person entitled to execute the
power of sale, must give notice, in the following manner, that the mortgage
will be forclosed, by a sale of the mortgaged property, or a part thereof, at
a time and place specified in the notice :
1. A copy of the notice must be published, at least once in each of the
twelve weeks, immediately preceding the day of sale, in a newspaper pub
lished in the county wherein the property to be sold, or a part thereof, is
situated.
2. A copy of the notice must be fastened up, at least eighty-four days
before the day of sale, in a conspicuous place, at or near the entrance of the
building, where the county court of each county, wherein the property to be
sold is situated, is directed to be held ; or, if there are two or more such
buildings in the same county, then in a like place, at or near the entrance
of the building nearest to the property ; or, in the city and county of New
York, in a like place, at or near the entrance of the building, where the
court of common pleas for the city and county is directed by law to be held.
3. A copy of the notice must be delivered, at least eighty-four days before
the day of sale, to the clerk of each county, wherein the mortgaged property,
or any part thereof, is situated.
4. A copy of the notice must be served, as prescribed in the next section,
upon the mortgagor, or, if he is dead, upon his executor or administrator.
A copy of the notice may also be served, in like manner, upon a subsequent
grantee or mortgagee of the property, whose conveyance was recorded, in
the proper office for recording it in the county, at the time of the first publi
cation of the notice of sale ; upon the wife or widow of the mortgagor, and
the wife or widow of each subsequent grantee, whose conveyance was so
recorded, then having an inchoate or vested right of dower, or an estate in
dower, subordinate to the lien of the mortgage ; or upon any person, then
having a lien upon the property, subsequent to the mortgage, by virtue of a
judgment or decree, duly docketed in the county clerk's office and consti
tuting a specific or general lien upon the property.
The notice, specified in this section, must be subscribed by the person
entitled to execute the power of sale, ui.less his name distinctly appears in
the body of the notice, in which case, it may be subscribed by his attorney
or agent.
§ 2389. Id. ; how served. Service, of notice of the sale, as prescribed in
subdivision fourth of the last section, must be made as follows :
1. Upon the mortgagor, his wife, widow, executor, or administrator, or a
subsequent grantee of the property, whose conveyance is upon record, or his
"wife or widow ; by delivering a copy of the notice, as prescribed in article
first of title first of chapter fifth of this act, for delivery of a copy of a sum
mons, in order to make personal service thereof upon the person to be served ;
or by leaving such a copy addressed to the person to be served, at his
dwelling-house, with a person of suitable age and discretion, at least fourteen
days before the day of sale.
2. Upon any other person, either in the same method, or by depositing a
copy of the notice in the post-office, properly inclosed in a postpaid wrapper,
directed to the person to be served, at his place of residence, at least twentyeight days before the day of sale.
§ 2390. Duty of county clerk. A county clerk, to whom a copy of a
notice of sale is delivered, as prescribed in subdivision third of the last
section but one, must forthwith affix it in a book, kept in his office for that
purpose ; must make and subscribe a minute, at the bottom of the copy, of
the time when he received and affixed it ; and must index the notice to the
name of the mortgagor.
§ 2391. Contents of notice of sale. The notice of sale must specify :
1. The names of the mortgagor, of the mortgagee, and of each assignee
of the mortgage.
2. The date of the mortgage, and the time when, and the place where, it
is recorded.
3. The sum claimed to be due upon the mortgage, and the time of the first
publication of the notice ; and, if any sum secured by the mortgage is not
then due, the amount to become due thereupon.
4. A description of the mortgaged property, conforming substantially to
that contained in the mortgage.
§ 2392. Sale ; how postponed. The sale may be postponed, from time
to time. In that case, a notice of the postponement must be published, as
soon as practicable thereafter, in the newspaper in which the original notice
was published ; and the publication of the original notice, and of each notice
of postponement, must be continued, at least once in each week, until the
time to which the sale is finally postponed.
§ 2393. Id. ; how conducted. The sale must be at public auction, in
the day-time, on a day other than Sunday or a public holiday, in the county
in which the mortgaged property, or a part thereof is situated ; except that,
where the mortgage is to the people of the State, the sale may be made at
the capitol. If the property consists of two or more distinct farms, tracts,
or lots, they must be sold separately ; and as many only of the distinct
farms, tracts or lots, shall be sold, as it is necessary to sell, in order to satisfy
the amount due at the time of the sale, and the costs and expenses allowed
by law. But where two or more buildings are situated upon the same city
lot, and access to one is obtained through the other, they must be sold
together.
§ 2394. Mortgagee, etc., may purchase. The mortgagee, or his assignee,
or the legal representative of either, may, fairly and in good faith, purchase
the mortgaged property, or any part thereof, at the sale.
§ 2395. Effect of sale. A sale, made and conducted as prescribed in
this title, to a purchaser in good faith, is equivalent to a sale, pursuant to
judgment in an action to foreclose the mortgage, so far only as to be an
entire bar of all claim or equity of redemption, upon, or with respect to, the
property sold, of each of the following persons :
L The mortgagor, his heir, devisee, executor, or administrator.

2. Each person claiming under any of them, by virtue of a title, or of a
lien by judgment or decree, subsequent to the mortgage, upon whom the
notice of sale was served, as prescribed in this title.
3. Each person so claiming, whose assignment, mortgage, or other con
veyance was not duly recorded in the proper bjok for recording the same
in the county, or whose judgment and decree was not duly docketed in the
county clerk's office, at the time of the first publication of the notice of sale ;
and the executor, administrator, or assignee of such a person.
4. Every other person, claiming under a statutory lien or encumbrance,
created subsequent to the mortgage, attaching to the title or interest of any
person, designated in either of the foregoing subdivisions of this section.
5. The wife or widow of the mortgagor, or of a subsequent grantee, upon
whom notice of the sale was served as prescribed in this title, where the lien
of the mortgage was superior to her contingent or vested right of dower, or
her estate in dower.
J| 2396. Affidavit of sale, and of posting, serving, etc., notices. An
davit of the sale, stating the time when, and the place where, the sale
was made; the sum bid for each distinct parcel, separately sold ; and the
name of the purchaser of each distinct parcel may be made by the person,
who officiated as auctioneer upon the sale. An affidavit of the publication
of the notice of sale, and of the notice or notices of postponement, if any,
may be made by the publisher or printer of the newspaper in which they
were published, or by his foreman or principal clerk. An affidavit of the
affixing of a copy of the notice, at or near the entrance of the proper court
house, may be made by the person who so affixed it, or by any person who
saw it so affixed, at least eighty-four days before the day of sale. An affi
davit of the affixing of a copy of the notice in the book, kept by the county
clerk, may be made by the county clerk, or by any person who saw it so
affixed, at least eighty-four days before the day of sale. An affidavit of the
service of a copy of the notice upon the mortgagor, or upon any other per
son, upon whom the notice must or may be served, may be made by the
person who made the service. Where two or more distinct parcels are sold
to different purchasers, separate affidavits may be made with respect to each
parcel, or one set of affidavits may be made for all the parcels.
§ 2397. When one affidavit suffices ; printed notice to be annexed
The matters required to be contained in any or all of the affidavits specified
in the last section, may be contained in one affidavit, where the same person
deposes with respect to them. A printed copy of the notice of sale must be
annexed to each affidavit ; and a printed copy of each notice of postpone
ment must be annexed to the affidavit of publication, and to the affidavit of
sale. But one copy of the notice suffices for two or more affidavits, where they all
refer to it, and are annexed to each other, and filed and recorded together. [Am'd
Ch. 399 of 1882. See § 2.J
t2398. Affidavits may be filed and recorded. The affidavits, speciin the last two sections, may be filed in the office for recording deeds
and mortgages, in the county where the sale took place. They must be
recorded at length by the officer with whom they are filed, in the proper
book for recording mortgages. The original affidavits, so filed, the record
thereof, and a certified copy of the record, are presumptive evidence of the
matters of fact therein stated, with respect to any property sold, which is
situated in that county. Where the property sold is situated in two or more
counties, a copy of the affidavits, certified by the officer with whom the
originals are filed, may be filed and recorded in each other county, wherein
any of the property is situated. Thereupon the copy and the record
thereof have the like effect, with respect to the property in that county, as
if the originals were duly filed and recorded therein.
§ 2399. Note upon record of mortgage. A clerk or a register, who
records any affidavits, or a certified copy thereof, filed with him, must make
a note, upon the margin of the record of the mortgage, in his office, referring
to the book and page, or the copy thereof, where the affidavits are recorded.
§ 2400. Deeds not necessary. The purchaser of the mortgaged prem
ises, upon a sale conducted as prescribed in this title, obtains title thereto,
against all persons bound by the sale, without the execution of a conveyance.
Except where he is the person authorized to execute the power of sale, such
a purchaser also obtains title, in like manner, upon payment of the purchasemoney, and compliance with the other terms of sale, if any, without the
filing and recording of the affidavits, as prescribed in the last section but
one. But he is not bound to pay the purchase-money, until the affidavits,
specified in that section, with respect to the property purchased by him, are
filed, or delivered or tendered to him for filing.
§ 2401. Costs allowed The following costs, in addition to the expenses
specified in the next section, are allowed, in proceedings taken as prescribed
in this title :
1. For drawing a notice of sale, a notice of the postponement of a sale,
or an affidavit, made as prescribed in this title, for each folio, twenty-five
cents ; for making each necessary copy thereof, for each folio, thirteen cents.
2. For serving each copy of the notice of sale, required or expressly per
mitted to be served by this title, and for affixing each copy thereof, required
to be affixed upon the court-house, as prescribed in this title, one dollar.
3. For superintending the sale, and attending to the execution of the
necessary papers, ten dollars.
§ 2402. Expenses allowed The Bums, actually paid for the following
services, not exceeding the fees allowed by law for those services, are
allowed in proceedings, taken as prescribed in this title :
1. For publishing the notice of sale, and the notice or notices of postpone
ment, if any, for a period not exceeding twenty-four weeks.
2. For the services specified in section 2390 of this act.
3. For recording the affidavits; and also, where the property sold is
situated in two or more counties, for making and recording the necessary
certified copies thereof.
4. For necessary postage, and searches.
§ 2403. Taxation thereof The costs and expenses must be taxed, upon
notice, by the clerk of the county where the sale took place, upon the request
and at the expense of any person interested in the payment thereof. Each
provision of this act, relating to the taxation of costs in the supreme court,
and the review thereof, applies to such a taxation.
§ 2404. Surplus money to be paid into supreme court. An attorney
or other person who receives any money, arising upon a sale, made as pre
scribed in this title, must, within ten days after he receives it, pay into the
supreme court the surplus, exceeding the sum due and to become due upon
the mortgage, and the costs and expenses of the foreclosure, in like manner
and with like effect, as if the proceedings to foreclose the mortgage were
taken in an action, brought in the supreme court, and triable in the county
where the sale took place.
§ 2405. Claimant of surplus money to file petition A person, who
had, at the time of the sale, an interest in or lien upon the property sold, or
a part thereof, may, at any time before an order is made, as prescribed in
the next section but one, file in the office of the clerk of the county, where
the sale took place, a petition, stating the nature and extent of his claim,
and praying for an order, directing the payment to him of the surplus
money or a part thereof.
§ 2406. Application for surplus money. A person filing a petition, as
prescribed in the last section, may, after the expiration of twenty days from
the day of sale, apply to the supreme court, at a term held within the
judicial district, embracing the county where his petition is filed, for an
order pursuant to the prayer of his petition. Notice of the application
must be served in the manner prescribed in this act for the service of a
paper upon an attorney in an action, upon each person, who has filed a like
petition, at least eight days before the application ; and also upon each per
son, upon whom a notice of sale was served, as shown in the affidavit of sale
or upon his executor or administrator. But if it is shown to the court, by
affidavit, that service upon any person, required to be served, cannot be so
made with due diligence, notice may be given to him in any manner which
the court directs.
§ 2407. Order for distribution. Upon the presentation of the petition
with due proof of notice of application, the court must make an order, refer
ring it to a suitable person, to ascertain and report the amount due to the
petitioner, and to each other person, which is a lien upon the surplus money ;
and the priorities of the several liens thereupon. Upon the coming in and
confirmation of the referee's report, the court must make such an order, for
the distribution of the surplus money, as justice requires.
§ 2408. Limitation of last four sections. The last four sections do not
apply to surplus money, arising upon the sale of real property, of which a
decedent died seized, where letters testamentary or letters of administra
tion, upon the decedent's estate, were, within four years before the sale,
issued from a surrogate's court within the State, having jurisdiction to issue
them.
§ 2409. Application of this title to mortgages to the State. This
title does Tint affect suiy provision of law, tr>consistent Ihtr^toiUi, specially
relating to the foreclosure of mortgages to the people of the State, or to the
commissioners for loaning certain monies of the United States. [Am'd Ch 399
op 1882. See § 2.] •

Application ; where made.
Id. ; in Buffalo and Brooklyn.
Petition
Order.
Application by an infant.
Order to be published ; papers to be recorded.
When new name to be assumed.
Action not to abate, etc.
County clerk to make return, etc.

2410. Application ; where made. A person of full age, residing
hin the State, may apply to the county court of the county in which he
resides ; or, if he resides in the city of New York, to the court of common
pleas for that city and county ; for leave to assume another name.
§ 2411. Id. ; in Buffalo and Brooklyn. Where the applicant resides
in the city of Buffalo, the application may be made, either to the county
court of Erie county, or to the superior court of Buffalo. Where he resides
in Brooklyn, it may be made, either to the county court of Kings county,
or to the city court of Brooklyn.
§ 2412. Petition. The application must be made by a written petition,
which must be signed by the petitioner ; must specify the name which he
proposes to assume ; must state the grounds of the application ; and must
be verified, in like manner as a verified pleading, in an action in the supreme
court.
§ 2413. Order. If the court to which the petition is presented, is satis
fied thereby, or by proof, by affidavit, presented therewith, that there is no
reasonable objection to the petitioner's assuming the name proposed, it must
make an order, authorizing the petitioner to assume that name, on a day
specified therein, not less than thirty days after the entry of the order,
upon his complying with the provisions of the next section but one.
§ 2414. Application by an infant. An infant may also apply, by his
general guardian, or the guardian of his person, or by his next friend, for
leave to assume another name. When he applies by his next friend, notice
of the time when, and the place where, the petition will be presented,
must be served, as prescribed in this act for the service of a paper upon an
attorney in an action, upon the father ; or, if he is dead, upon the mother ;
or, if both are dead, upon the general guardian of the infant, or the guard
ian of his person. But where it appears, by proof, to the satisfaction of
the court, that the infant has no father or mother, or that both reside with
out the State, and that he has no guardian, residing within the State, the
court may dispense with notice, or require notice to be given to such persons,
and in such a manner, as it thinks proper. Upon the hearing, the court
must, in addition to the matters specified in the last section, be satisfied by
the proofs, that the interests of the infant will be substantially promoted
by the change of his name. Except as otherwise prescribed in this section,
the provisions of this title, relating to an application by a person of full age,
apply to an application by an infant.
§ 2415. Order to be published ; papers to be recorded. Within ten
days after the order is made, the petitioner must cause a copy thereof tp be
published, in a newspaper published in the county, in which the order was
made; and, within twenty days after the making of the order, he must
cause the papers upon which it was granted, and au affidavit of the publi
cation thereof, to be filed and recorded, as prescribed in this section. Where
the order was made in any county except New York, the papers must be
filed and recorded in the county clerk's office. Where the order was made
by the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York, they
must be filed and recorded in the office of the clerk of that court.
§ 2416. When new name to be assumed. If the requirements of the
last section are complied with, the petitioner must, on and after the day
specified for that purpose in the order, be known by the name, which he is
thereby authorized to assume ; and by no other name.
§ 2417. Action not to abate, etc. An action or special proceeding,
civil or criminal, theretofore or thereafter commenced against a person, whose
name is changed as prescribed in this title, shall not abate, nor shall any
relief, recovery, or other proceeding therein, be prevented, impeded, or
impaired, in consequence of the change of name. The plaintifff in the action,
or the party instituting the special proceeding, or the people, as the case
requires, may, at any time, obtain an order, amending any of the papers or
proceedings therein, by the substitution of the new name, without costs,
and without prejudice to the paper or proceeding.
§ 2418. County clerk to make return, etc. The clerk of each county,
except the county of New York, and the clerk of the court of common pleas
for the city and county of New York, must annually, in the month of
December, make a return to the Secretary of State, of all the changes of
names of persons, which have been made within his county, since his last
return, as prescribed in this title. The Secretary of State must cause to be
published, from those returns, in the next volume of the session laws, a
tabular statement, showing the original name of each person, and the name
which he has been authorized to assume.

When a majority of directors, etc., may petition for dissolution.
Id. ; when they are equally divided.
Contents of petition.
Affidavit to be annexed.
Presentation of petition, etc. Order to show cause.
Order to be published.
Id. ; to be served on creditors and stockholders.
Hearing.
Id. ; original papers may be used.
Application for final order.
Final order.
Certain sales, etc., void.
Certain coi-porations excepted from this title.

§ 2419. When a majority of directors, etc., may petition for disso
lution If a majority of the directors, trustees, or other officers, having the
management of the concerns of a corporation created by or under the laws
of the State, discover that the stock, effects, and other property thereof are
not sufficient to pay all just demands, for which it is liable, or to afford a
reasonable security to those who may deal with it ; or if, for any reason,
they deem it beneficial to the interest of the stockholders, that the corpora
tion should be dissolved ; they may present a petition, to the supreme court,
or to a superior city court of the city where the principal office of the
corporation is located, praying for a final order dissolving the corporation,
as„prescribed in this title.
>
,
t2420. Id. ; when they are equally divided. If a corporation, created
er a general statute of the State for the formation of corporations, has
an even number of trustees or directors, who are equally divided, respecting
the management of its affairs, and the entire stock of the corporation is, at
that time, owned by the trustees, or directors, or is so divided, that one-half
thereof is owned or controlled by persons favoring the course of one-half of
the trustees or directors, and one-half by persons favoring the course of the
other half of them,' the trustees or directors, or one or more of them, may
present a petition as prescribed in the last section. ' But this section does

not apply to a savings bank, a trust company, a safe deposit company, or a
corporation formed to rent safes in burglar and fire-proof vaults, or for the
construction or operation of a railroad, or for aiding in the construction
thereof, or for carrying on the business of banking or insurance, or intended
to derive a profit from the loan or use of money.
§ 2421. Contents of petition. The petition must show that the case is
one of those specified in the last two sections, and must state the reasons,
which induce the petitioner or petitioners to desire the dissolution of the
corporation. A schedule must be annexed to the petition, containing the
following matters, as far as the petitioner or petitioners know, or have the
means of knowing the same :
1. A full and true account of all the creditors of the corporation, and of all
unsatisfied engagements, entered into by, and subsisting against, the cor
poration.
2. A statement of the name and place of residence of each creditor, and
of each person with whom such an engagement was made, and to whom it
is to be performed, if known ; or, if either is not known, a statement of that
fact.
3. A statement of the sum owing to each creditor, or other person specified
in the last subdivision, and the nature of each debt, demand or other
engagement.
4. A statement of the true cause and consideration of the indebtedness to
each creditor.
5. A full, just, and true inventory of all the property of the corporation,
and of all the books, vouchers, and securities, relating thereto.
6. A statement of each encumbrance upon the property of the corporation,
by judgment, mortgage, pledge, or otherwise.
7. A full, just, and true account of the capital stock of the corporation,
specifying the name of each stockholder ; his residence, if it is known, or if
it is not known, stating that fact ; the number of shares belonging to him ;
the amount paid in upon his shares ; and the amount still due thereupon.
§ 2422. Affidavit to be annexed. An affidavit, made by each of the
petitioners, to the effect that the matters of fact, stated in the petition and
the schedule, are just and true, so far as the affiant knows or has the means
of knowing the same, must be annexed to the petition and schedule.
§ 2423. Presentation of petition, etc. Order to show cause. Where
the petition is addressed to the supreme court, the papers must be presented
at a term of that court, held within the judicial district, embracing the
county wherein the principal office of the corporation is located. In a case
specified in section 2420 of this act, the court may, in its discretion, enter- /
tain or dismiss the application. Where it, entertains the application, or
where the case is one of those specified in section 2419 of this act, the court
must make an order, requiring all persons interested in the corporation to
show cause before it, or before a referee designated in the order, at a time
and place therein specified, not less than three months after the granting of
the order, why the corporation should not be dissolved. The order must be
entered, and the papers must be filed, within ten days after the order is
made, with the clerk of the court, or, in the supreme court, with the clerk of
the county where the principal office of the corporation is located.
§ 2424. Order to be published. A copy of the order must be published,
as prescribed therein, at least once in each of the three weeks immediately
preceding the time fixed therein for showing cause, in the newspaper printed
at Albany, in which \egal notices are required to be published ; and also in
one or more newspapers, specified in the order, published in the city or
county wherein the order is entered.
§ 2425. Id. ; to be served on creditors and stockholders. A copy of
the order must also be served upon each of the persons specified in the
schedule as a creditor or stockholder of the corporation, or as a person to
whom an engagement of the corporation is to be performed, other than a
gerson whose residence is stated to be unknown, or to be without the United
tates. The service must be made either personally, at least twenty days
before the time appointed for the hearing ; or by depositing a copy of the
order, at least forty days before the time so appointed, in the post-office,
inclosed in a postpaid wrapper, addressed to the person to be served, at his
residence, as stated in the schedule.
§ 2426. Hearing. At the time and place specified in the order, or at the
time and place to which the hearing is adjourned, the court or the referee,
must hear the allegations and proofs of the parties, and determine the facts.
If a referee was not designated in the order to show cause, the court may,
in its discretion, appoint a referee when or after the order is returnable.
The decision of the court, or the report of the referee, must be in writing,
and must be made and filed with all convenient speed. It must contain a
statement of the effects, credits, and other property, and of the debts and
other engagements, of the corporation, and of all other matters pertaining to
its affairs.
§ 2427. Id. ; original papers may be used. The court or the referee is
entitled to use, upon the hearing, the original petition, and the schedules
annexed thereto ; and the clerk must transmit them accordingly, upon the
written order of the judge or of the referee. In that case, they must be
returned with the decision or report.
§ 2428. Application for. final order. Where the hearing is before a
Teferee, a motion for a final order must be made to the court, upon notice to
each person who has made himself a party to the proceedings, by filing with
the clerk, before the close of the hearing, a notice of his appearance, in per
son or by attorney, specifying a post-office within the State, where such a
notice may be served. The notice may be served as prescribed in this act
for the service of a paper upon an attorney in an action. Where the hear
ing was before the court, a motion for a final order may be made iniinc
diately, or at such a time and upon such a notice as the court prescribes.
§ 2429. Final order. Upon an application for a final order, if it appears
to the court, in a case specified in section 2419 of this act, that the corpora
tion is insolvent, or in a case specified either in that section, or in section
2420 of this act, that, for any reason, a dissolution of the corporation will be
beneficial to the interests of the stockholders, and not injurious to the public
interests, the court must make a final order, dissolving the corporation, and
appointing one or more receivers of its property. Upon the entry of the
order, the corporation is dissolved. The court may, in its discretion, appoint
a director, trustee, or other officer, or a stockholder of the corporation, a
receiver of its property.
§ 2430. Certain sales, etc., void. A sale, assignment, mortgage convey
ance, or other transfer, of any property of a corporation, made alter the filing
of a petition as prescribed in this title, in payment of, or as security for, an
existing or prior debt, or for any other consideration ; or a judgment there
after rendered against the corporation by confession, or upon the acceptance
of an offer, is absolutely void, as against the receiver appointed in the special
proceeding, and as against the creditors of the corporation.
§ 2431. Certain corporations excepted from this title. This title does
not apply to an incorporated library society, to a religious corporation, or to
a select school or academy, incorporated by the regents of the university or
by the Legislature, or to a municipal or other political corporation.
§ 2432. The different remedies under this title. This title provides
for three distinct remedies, as follows :
1. An order made or a warrant issued against a judgment debtor, after
the return of an execution.
2. An order made or a warrant issued against a judgment debtor, after
the issuing aiid before the return of an execution.
3. An order, made after the issuing, and either before or after the return,
of an execution, against a person who has property of the judgment debtor,
or is indebted to him.
The proceedings under subdivision third of this section, may be pursued,
either alone, or simultaneously with the proceedings under either subdivision
first or subdivision second.
§ 2433. Nature of the remedies. Review of orders. Each of those
remedies is a special proceeding. But an order, made in the course thereof,
can be reviewed only as follows :
1. An order, made by a judge, out of court, may be vacated or modified
by the judge who made it, as if it was made in an action ; or it, or the order
of the judge vacating or modifying it, may be vacated or modified, upon
motion, by the court out of which the execution was issued.
2. Where the execution was i.*Mied out of a county court, an appeal from
an order, made in the course of the proceedings, may be taken in like man
ner, as if the order was made in an action brought in the same court.
§ 2434. What judge may entertain the proceedings. Either special
proceeding may be instituted before a judge of the court out of which, or
the county judge, or the special county judge of the county to which the
execution was issued ; or where it was issued to the city and county of New
York from an inferior court other than the marine court of that city, before
a judge of the court of common pleas for that city and county. Where
the execution was issued out of a court other than the supreme court, and
it is shown by affidavits that each of the judges, before whom the special
proceedings might be instituted as prescribed in this section, is absent
from the county, or for any reason unable or disqualified to act, the special
proceedings may be instituted before a justice of the supreme court. In that
case, if he does not reside within the j udicial district embracing the county
to which the execution was issued, the order made or warrants issued by
him must be returnable to a justice of the supreme court, residing in that
district, or the county judge or the special county judge of that or an
adjoining county, as directed in the order or warrant. [Am'd Ch. 683 OF
1881.]
§ 2435. Order to examine judgment debtor after return of execution
At any time within ten years after the return, wholly or partly unsatisfied,
of an execution against property, issued upon a judgment, as prescribed in
section 2458 of this act, the judgment creditor, upon proof of the facts, by
affidavit, or other competent written evidence, is entitled to an order, requir
ing the judgment debtor to attend and be examined concerning his prop
erty, at a time and place specified in the order.
§ 2436. Id. ; before return of execution At any time after the issuing
of an execution against property, as prescribed in section 2458 of this act,
and before the return thereof, the judgment creditor, upon proof, by affida
vit, or other competent written evidence, that the judgment debtor has prop
erty, which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judg
ment, is entitled to au order, requiring the j udgment debtor to attend and
be examined concerning his property, at a time and place specified in the
order.
§ 2437. Warrant of arrest instead of order. Upon proof entitling a
judgment creditor to an order, under either of the last two sections ; and
also proof, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the judge, that there is danger
that the judgment debtor will leave the State, or conceal himself, and that
there is reason to believe that he has property, which he unjustly refuses to
apply to the payment of the judgment ; the judge may, instead of making
an order, issue a warrant under his hand, reciting the facts, and requiring
the sheriff of any county, where the judgment debtor may be found, to arrest
him, and bring him before the same judge, or before another judge, if the
case is one where the warrant must be returnable to another judge.
t2438. Id. ; after the order has been made. Where the facts, speciin the last section, are made to appear, as therein stated, at any time
after the making of an order, requiring the judgment debtor to attend and
be examined, and before the close of his examination, the judge may issue
a warrant, as therein prescribed; and, if necessary, may direct the adjourn
ment, or, if the return day of the order has elapsed, the continuance of the
proceedings under the order, until after the return of the warrant, and his
§ 2439. Warrant, how vacated, etc. A warrant, issued as prescribed
in the last two sections, may be vacated or modified, as prescribed in section
2433 of this act, with respect to an order.
§ 2440. Undertaking may be required, etc. Where a judgment debtor
has been arrested and brought before a judge, by virtue of a warrant, issued
as prescribed iu this article ; and it appears, to the satisfaction of the judge,
from his examination, or other proof, that there is danger that he will leave
the State, or conceal himself, and that he has property, which he has unjustly
refused to apply to the satisfaction of the judgment; the judge may make
an order, requiring him to give an undertaking, with one or more sureties,
in a sum fixed and within a time specified in the order, to the effect, that he
will, from time to time, as the judge directs, attend before the judge, or
before a referee, appointed or to be appointed in the proceedings ; and that
he will not, until discharged from arrest by virtue of the warrant, dispose
of any of his property, which is not exempted from seizure by section 2463
of this act. If he fails to comply with the order, the judge must forthwith,
by warrant, commit him to prison, there to remain until the close of the
examination, or the giving of the required undertaking ; except that the
judge may direct the sheriff to produce him, from time to time, as required
in the course of the proceedings.
§ 2441. Order to examine person having property, eta, ofjudgment
debtor. Upon proof, by affidavit, or other competent written evidence, to
the satisfaction of the judge, that an execution against property has been
issued, as prescribed in section 2458 of this act, and either that it has been
returned wholly or partly unsatisfied, or that it has not been returned ; and
also that any person or corporation has personal property of the judgment
debtor, exceeding ten dollars in value, or is indebted to him in a sum exceed
ing ten dollars; the judgment creditor is entitled to an order, requiring
that person or corporation to attend and be examined concerning the debt,
or other property, at a time and place specified in the order. The judge
may, in his discretion, require notice of the subsequent proceedings to be
given to the judgment debtor, in such a manner as he deems just. But a
receiver shall not be appointed without such a notice ; except as otherwise
prescribed in article second of this title.
8 2442. Either order may require attendance before a referee. An
order, requiring a person to attend and be examined, made pursuant to any
provision of this article, must require him so to attend and be examined,
either before the judge to whom the order is returnable, or before a referee
designated therein. Where the examination is taken before a referee, he
must certify, to the judge to whom the order is returnable, all the evidence
and the other proceedings taken before him.
§ 2443. Reference may be ordered at any time. At any stage of the
proceedings, the judge to whom the order is returnable may, in his discre
tion, make an order, directing that any other examination, or testimony, be
taken by, or that a question arising be referred to, a referee, designated in
the order. Where a question is so referred, the referee may be directed to
report either the evidence or the facts.
§ 2444. Proceedings upon examination ; adjournment Upon an
examination under this article, each answer of a party or witness examined
must be under oath. A corporation must attend by, and answer under the
oath of, an officer thereof; and the judge may, in his discretion, specify the
officer. Either party may be examined as a witness, in his own behalf, and
may produce and examine other witnesses, as upon the trial of an action.
The judge or referee may adjourn any proceedings, under this article, from
time to time, as he thinks proper.
§ 2445. Referee to be sworn. Unless the parties expressly waive the
referee's oath, a referee, appointed as prescribed in this article, must, before
entering upon an examination, or taking testimony, subscribe and take an
oath, that he will faithfully and fairly discharge his duty upon the reference,
and make a just and true report, according to the best of his understanding.
The oath may be administered by an officer designated in section 842 of this
act, and must be returned to the judge, with the report or testimony.
§ 2446. Order permitting person indebted to pay debt to sheriff At
any time after the commencement of a special proceeding, authorized by
this article, and before the appointment of a receiver therein, or the exten
sion of a receivership thereto, the judge, by whom the order or warrant was
granted, or to whom it is returnable, may, in his discretion, upon proof, by
affidavit, to his satisfaction, that a person or corporation is indebted to the
judgment debtor, and upon such a notice, given to such persons, as he deems
just, or without notice, make an order, permitting the person or corporation,
to pay to a sheriff, designated in the order, a sum, on account of the alleged
indebtedness, not exceeding the sum which will satisfy the execution. A
payment thus made is, to the extent thereof, a discharge of the indebted
ness, except as against a transferee from the judgment debtor, in good faith
and for a valuable consideration, of whase rights the person or corporation
had actual or constructive notice, when the payment was made.
§ 2447. Order requiring delivery of money or property to sheriff or
receiver. Where it appears, from the examination or testimony, taken in a
special proceeding authorized by this article, that the judgment debtor has,
in his possession or under his control, money or other personal property,
belonging to him ; or that one or more articles of personal property, capable
of delivery, his right to the possession whereof is not substantially disputed,
are in the possession or under the control of another person ; the judge, by
whom the order or warrant was granted, or to whom it is returnable, may,
in his discretion, and upon such a notice, given to such persons, as he deems
just, or without notice, make an order, directing the judgment debtor, or
other person, immediately to pay the money, or deliver the articles of per
sonal property, to a sheriff, designated in the order, unless a receiver has
been appointed, or a receivership has been extended to the special proceed
ing, and in that case to the receiver.
§ 2448. Duty of the sheriff If the sheriff, to whom money is paid, or
other property is delivered, pursuant to an order made as prescribed in either
of the last two sections, does not then hold an execution upon the judgment
against the property of the judgment debtor, he has the same rights and
powers, and is subject to the same duties and liabilities, with respect to the
money or property, as if the money had been collected, or the property had
been levied upon by him, by virtue of such an execution ; except as other
wise prescribed in the next section.
§ 2449. How money or property applied to pay the judgment. After
a receiver has been appointed, or a receivership has been extended to the
special proceeding, the judge must, by order, direct the sheriff to pay the
money or the proceeds of the property, deducting his fees, to the receiver ;
or, if the case so requires, to deliver to the receiver the property in his
hands. But if it appears, to the satisfaction of the judge, that an order,
appointing a receiver or extending a receivership, i3 not necessary, he may,
by an order reciting that fact, direct the sheriff to apply the money so paid,
or the proceeds of the property so delivered, upon an execution in favor of
the judgment creditor, issued either before or after the payment or delivery
to the sheriff.
2450. Balance to be paid or delivered to judgment debtor, etcere money is paid, or property delivered, as prescribed in the last
four sections, and afterwards the special proceeding is discontinued or dis
missed; or the judgment is satisfied, without resorting to that money or
property ; or a balance of the money, or of the proceeds of the property, or a
part of the property, remains in the sheriff's or the receiver's hands, after
satisfying the judgment, and the costs and expenses of the special proceed
ing ; the judge must make an order, directing the sheriff or receiver to pay
the money, or deliver the property, so remaining in his hands, to the judg
ment debtor, or to such other person as appears to be entitled thereto, upon
payment of his fees, and all other sums legally chargeable against the
same.
§ 2451. Judge may enjoin transfer, etc., of property. The judge
by whom the order or warrant was granted or to whom it is returnable,
may make an injunction order, restraining any person or corporation,
whether a party or not a party to the special proceeding, from making
or suffering any transfer or other disposition of, or interference with,
the property of the judgment debtor, or the property or debt, concerning
which any person is required to attend and be examined, until further
direction in the premises. Such an injunction order may be made simul
taneously with the order or warrant, by which the special proceeding is
instituted, and upon the same papers; or afterwards, upon an affidavit,
showing sufficient grounds therefore. The judge or the court may, as a con
dition of granting an application to vacate or modify the injunction order,
require the applicant to give security, in such a sum and in such a manner,
as justice requires.
J\ 2452. Mode of service of certain orders. An injunction order, or an
er requiring a person to attend and be examined, made as prescribed in
this article, must be served as follows :
1. The original order, under the hand of the judge making it, must be
exhibited to the person to be served.
2. A copy thereof, and of the affidavit upon which it was made, must be
delivered to him.
Service upon a corporation is sufficient, if made upon an officer, to whom
a copy of a summons must be delivered, where a summons is personally
served upon the corporation ; unless the officer is specially designated by
the judge, as prescribed in section 2444 of this act.
§ 2453 Service of a warrant. The sheriff, when he arrests a judgment
debtor by virtue of a warrant, issued as prescribed in this article, must
deliver to him a copy of the warrant, and of the affidavit upon which it was
granted.
§ 2454. How proceedings discontinued or dismissed. A special pro
ceeding, instituted as prescribed in this article, may be discontinued at any
time upon such terms as justice requires, by an order of the judge, made
upon the application of the judgment creditor. Where the judgment cred
itor unreasonably neglects or delays to proceed, or where it appears that his
judgment has been satisfied, his proceedings may be dismissed, upon like
terms, by a like order, made upon the application of the judgment debtor,
or of the plaintifff in a judgment creditor's action against the debtor, or of a
judgment creditor who has instituted either of the special proceedings,
authorized by this article. Where an order appointing a receiver, or
extending a receivership, has been made, in the course of the special pro
ceeding, notice of the application for an order specified in this section, must
be given, in such a manner as the judge deems proper, to all persons inter
ested in the receivership, as far as they can conveniently be ascertained.
§ 2455. Costs to judgment creditor. The judge may make an order,
allowing to the judgment creditor a fixed sum, as costs, consisting of his
witnesses' fees and other disbursements, and of a sum, in addition thereto,
not exceeding thirty dollars ; and directing the payment thereof, out of any
money which has come, or may come, to the hands of the receiver, or of the
sheriff; or, within a time specified in the order, by the judgment debtor, or
other person against whom the special proceeding is instituted.
§ 2456. Id. ; to judgment debtor, etc. Where the judgment debtor, or
other person against whom the special proceeding is instituted, has been
examined, and property, applicable to the payment of the judgment, has not
been discovered in the course of the special proceeding, the judge may make
an order, allowing him a like sum as costs ; and directing the payment
thereof, within a time specified in the order, by the judgment creditor; or,
except where it is allowed to the judgment debtor, out of any money which
has come, or may come, to the hands of the receiver or of the sheriff.
§ 2457. Disobedience to order ; how punished. A person who refuses,
or without sufficient excuse neglects, to obey an order of a judge or referee,
made pursuant to the last two sections, or to any other provision of this
article, and duly served upon him, or an oral direction, given directly to him
by a judge or referee, in the course of the special proceeding ; or to attend
before a judge or referee, according to the command of a subpoena, duly
Berved upon him ; may be punished by the judge, or by the court out of
which the execution was issued, as for a contempt.
§ 2458. Upon what judgment, and to what county, the execution
must have issued. In order to entitle a judgment creditor to maintain
either of the special proceedings, authorized by this article, the judgment
must have been rendered upon the judgment debtor's appearance, or personal
service of the summons upon him, for a sum not less than twenty-five dol
lars, and the execution must have been issued out of a court of record ; and,
either,
1. To the sheriff of the county where the judgment debtor has, at the
time of the commencement of the special proceeding, a place for the regular
transaction of business in person ; or,
2. If the judgment debtor is then a resident of the State, to the sheriff of
the county where he resides ; or,

3. If he is not then a resident of the State, to the sheriff of the county
where the judgment-roll is filed ; unless the execution was issued out of a
court, other than that in which the judgment was rendered, and, in that
case, to the sheriff of the county where the transcript of the judgment is
filed. [Am'd Ch. 122 op 1881.]
§ 2459. In what county judgment debtor, bis bailee, etc., must
attend. If the judgment debtor, or other person, required to attend and be
examined, as prescribed in this article, or the officer of a corporation,
required to attend in its behalf, is, at the time of the service of the order
upon him, a resident of the State, or then has an office, within the State, for
the regular transaction of business in person, he cannot be compelled to
attend, pursuant to the order, or to any adjournment, at a place without the
county wherein his residence or place of business is situated.
§ 2460. No person excused from answering on the ground of fraud.
A party or a witness, examined in a special proceeding, authorized by this
article is not excused from answering a question, on the ground that his
examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a fraud ; or to
prove that he has been a party or privy to, or knowing of, a conveyance,
assignment, transfer or other disposition of property for any purpose ; or
that he or another person claims to be entitled as against the judgment
creditor, or a receiver appointed or to be appointed in the special proceed
ing, to hold property, derived from or through the judgment debtor, or to be
discharged from the payment of a debt which was due to the judgment
debtor, or to a person in "his behalf. But an answer cannot be used as evi
dence against the person so answering, in a criminal action or criminal pro
ceeding. [Am'd Ch. 122 op 1881.]
§ 2461. Proceedings where judgment is againstjoint debtors. Where
the execution was issued as prescribed in section 1941 of this act, a debt due
to, or other personal property owned by, one or more of the defendants not
summoned, jointly with the defendants summoned, or with any of them,
may be reached by a special proceeding, instituted as prescribed in this
article, and founded upon the judgment.
§ 2462. Proceedings commenced before one judge may be contin
ued before another. Sections 26, 52, and 279 of this act apply to a special
proceeding, instituted as prescribed in this article ; and the judge before
whom it is continued, as prescribed in either of those sections, is deemed to
be the judge to whom an order or warrant is returnable, for the purpose of
any provisions of this or the next article.
§ 2463. Cases where this chapter is not applicable ; what property
cannot be reached. This article does not apply, where the judgment
debtor is a corporation created by or under the laws of the State, or a for
eign corporation specified in section 1812 of this act. Nor does it authorize
the seizure of or other interference with, any property, which is expressly
exempt by law from levy and sale by virtue of an execution ; or any money,
thing in action, or other property, held in trust for a judgment debtor,
where the trust has been created by, or the fund so held in trust has pro
ceeded from, a person, other than the judgment debtor ; or the earnings of
the judgment debtor for his personal services, rendered within sixty days,
next before the institution of the special proceeding ; where it is made to
appear, by his oath or otherwise, that those earnings are necessary for the
use of a family, wholly or partly supported by his labor.
§ 2464. When and how receiver may be appointed. At any time
after making an order requiring the judgment debtor, or any other person,
to attend and be examined, or issuing a warrant, as prescribed in article first
of this title, the judge to whom the order or warrant is returnable may
make an order, appointing a receiver of the property of the judgment debtor.
At least two days notice of the application for the order appointing a receiver,
must be given personally to the judgment debtor, unless the judge is satis
fied that he cannot, with reasonable diligence, be found within the State ;
in which case, the order must recite that fact, and may dispense with notice,
or may direct notice to be given in any manner which the judge thinks
proper. But where the order to attend and be examined, or the warrant,
has been served upon the judgment debtor, a receiver may be appointed
upon the return day thereof, or at the close of the examination, without
further notice to him.
§ 2465. Notice to other creditors. The judge must ascertain, if practi
cable, by the oath of the judgment debtor, or otherwise, whether an action,
specified in article first of title fourth of chapter fifteenth of this act, or a
special proceeding instituted as prescribed in article first of this title, is
pending against the judgment debtor. If either is pending, and a receiver
has not been appointed therein, notice of the application for the appointment
of a receiver, and of all the subsequent proceedings respecting the receiver
ship, must be given, in such a manner as the judge directs, to the judgment
creditor prosecuting it.
§ 2466. Only one receiver to be appointed. Former receivership
may be extended Only one receiver of the property of a judgment debtor
shall be appointed. Where a receiver thereof has already been appointed,
the judge instead of making the order prescribed in the last section but one,
must make an order extending the receivership to the special proceeding
before him. Such an order gives to the judgment creditor the same rights,
as if a receiver was then appointed upon his application ; including the right
to apply to the court to control, direct, or remove the receiver, or to subordi
nate the proceedings in or by which the receiver was appointed, to those
taken under his judgment.
§ 2467. Order to be filed and recorded. An order appointing a receiver,
or extending a receivership, must be filed in the office of the clerk of the
county, wherein the judgment-roll in the action is filed ; or, if the special
proceeding is founded upon an execution issued out of a court, other than
that in which the judgment was rendered, in the office of the clerk of the
county, wherein the transcript of the judgment is filed.
8 2468. When property is vested in receiver. The property of the
judgment debtor is vested in a receiver, who has duly qualified, from the
time of filing the order appointing him, or extending his receivership, as
the case may be ; subject to the following exceptions :
1. Real property is vested in the receiver, only from the time when the
cider, or a certified copy thereof, as the case may be, in filed with the clerk
of the county, where it is situated.
2. Where the judgment debtor, at the time when the order is filed, resides
in another county of the State, his personal property is vested in the receiver,
only from the time when a copy of the order, certified by the clerk in whose
office it ia recorded, is filed with the clerk of the county where he resides.
§ 2469. How receiver's title to personal property extended by rela
tion. Where the receiver's title to personal property has become vested, as
prescribed in the last section, it also extends back, by relation, for the bene
fit of the judgment creditor in whose behalf the special proceeding was in
stituted, as follows :
1. Where an order requiring the judgment debtor to attend and be
examined, or a warrant requiring the sheriff to arrest him and bring him
before the judge, has been served, before the appointment of the receiver,
or the extension of the receivership, the receiver's title extends back, so as to
include the personal property of the judgment debtor, at the time of the
service of the order or warrant.
2. Where an order or warrant has not been served, as specified in the
foregoing subdivision, but an order has been made, requiring a person to
attend and be examined, concerning property belonging, or a debt due, to
the judgment debtor, the receiver's title extends to the personal property,
belonging to the judgment debtor, which was in the hands, or under the
control of the person or corporation thus required to attend, at the time of
the service of the order ; and to a debt then due to him from that person or
corporation.
3. In every other case, where notice of the application for the appointment
of the receiver was given to the judgment debtor, the receiver's title extends
to the personal property of the judgment debtor, at the time when the notice
was served, either personally, or by complying with the requirements of an
order, prescribing a substitute for personal service.
4. Where the case is within two or more of the foregoing subdivisions of
this sect ion, the rule most favorable to the judgment creditor must be adopted.
But this section does not affect the title of a purchaser in good faith, with
out notice, and for a valuable consideration ; or the payment of a debt in
good faith, and without notice.
§ 2470. County clerk to record orders, etc. ; penalty for neglectEach county clerk must keep in his office a book, indexed to the names of
the judgment debtors, styled " book of orders appointing receivers of judg
ment debtors." A county clerk, in whose office an order or a certified copy
of an order is filed, as prescribed in section 2467 or section 2468 of this act,
must immediately note thereupon the time of filing it, and, as soon as
practicable, must record it, in the book so kept by him. He must also,
upon request, furnish forthwith to any party or person interested, one or
more certified copies thereof. For each omission to comply with any pro
vision of this section, a county clerk forfeits, to the party aggrieved, two
hundred and fifty dollars, in addition to all damages sustained by reason of
the omission.
§ 2471. Receiver to be subject to control of court A receiver,
appointed as prescribed in this article, is subject to the direction and control
of the court out of which the execution was issued. Where an order has
been made, extending a receivership to a special proceeding founded upon
a subsequent judgment, the control over, and direction of, the receiver, with
respect to that judgment, remain in the court to whose control and direction
he was originally subject.
§ 2472. General jurisdiction of surrogate's court. Each surrogate
must hold, within his county, a court, which has, in addition to the powers
conferred upon it, or upon the surrogate, by special provision of law, juris
diction, as follows :
§ 2473. Presumption of jurisdiction. Where the jurisdiction of a sur
rogate's court to make, in a case specified in the last section, a decree or
other determination, is drawn in question, collaterally, and the necessary
parties were duly cited or appeared, the jurisdiction is presumptively, and, in
the absence of fraud or collusion, conclusively established, by an allegation
of the jurisdictional facts, contained in a written petition or answer, duly
verified, used in the surrogate's court. The fact that the parties were duly
cited is presumptively proved by a recital to that effect in the decree.
§ 2474. Jurisdiction not lost by defect in record The surrogate's
court obtains jurisdiction in every case, by the existence of the jurisdictional
facts prescribed by statute, and by the citation or appearance of the neces
sary parties. An objection to a decree or other determination, founded upon
an omission therein, or in the papers upon which it was founded, of the
recital or proof of any fact necessary to j urisdiction, which actually existed,
or the failure to take any intermediate proceeding, required by law to be
taken, is available only upon appeal. But, for the better protection of any
party, or other person interested, the surrogate's court may, in its discretion,
allow such a defect to be supplied by amendment.
§ 2475. Effect of exercise of jurisdiction. Jurisdiction, once duly
exercised over any matter, by a surrogate's court, excludes the subsequent
exercise of jurisdiction by another surrogate's court, over the same matter,
and all incidents, except as otherwise specially prescribed by law. Where
a guardian has been duly appointed by, or letters testamentary or of admin
istration have been duly issued from, or any other special proceeding has
been duly commenced in, a surrogate's court having jurisdiction, all further
proceedings, to be taking in a surrogate's court, with respect to the same
estate or matter, must be taken in the same court.
§ 2476. Exclusive jurisdiction. The surrogate's court of each county
has jurisdiction, exclusively of every other surrogate's court, to take the proof of a will, and to grant letters testamentary thereupon, or to grant letters of
administration, as the case requires, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the decedent was, at the time of his death, a resident of that
county, whether his death happened there or elsewhere.
2. Where the decedent, not being a resident of the State, died within that
county, leaving personal property within the State, or leaving personal prop
erty which has, since his death, come into the State, and remains unadministered.
3. Where the decedent, not being a resident of the State, died without
the State, leaving personal property within that county, and no other; or
leaving personal property which has since his death, come into that county,
and no other, and remains unadministered.
4. Where the decedent was not, at the time of his death, a resident of the
State, and a petition for probate of his will, or for a grant of letters of admin
istration, under subdivision second or third of this section, has not been filed
in any surrogate's court ; but real property of the decedent, to which the will
relates, or which is subject to disposition under title fifth of this chapter, is
situated within that county, and no other.
§ 2477. Concurrent jurisdiction of two or more surrogates. Where
personal property of the decedent is within, or comes into, two or more coun
ties, under the circumstances specified in subdivision third of the last section;
or real property of the decedent is situated in two or more counties, under
the circumstances specified in subdivision fourth of the last section ; the
surrogate's courts of those counties have concurrent jurisdiction, exclusive of
every other surrogate's court, to take the proof of the will and grant letters
testamentary thereupon, or to grant letters of administration, as the case
requires. But where a petition for probate of a will, or for letters of admin
istration, has been duly filed in either of the courts so possessing concurrent
jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of that court excludes that of the other.
§ 2478. Jurisdiction, how affected by locality of debts. For the pur
pose of conferring jurisdiction upon a surrogate's court, a debt, owing to a
decedent by a resident of the State, is regarded as personal property, situated
within the county where the debtor, or either of two or more joint debtors,
resides ; and a debt, owing to him by a domestic corporation, is regarded as
personal property, situated within the county where the principal office of
the corporation is situated. But the foregoing provision does not apply to
a debt evidenced by a bond, promissory note, or other instrument for the pay
ment of money only, in terms negotiable, or payable to the bearer or holder.
Such a debt, whether the debtor is a resident or a non-resident of the State,
or a foreign or a domestic government, State, county, public officer, associa
tion, or corporation, is, for the purpose of so conferring jurisdiction, regarded
as personal property, at the place where the bond, note, or other instrument
is, either within or without the State.
§ 2479. Jurisdiction in new or altered county. Where a new county
has been heretofore, or is hereafter erected, or territory has been heretofore,
or is hereafter, transferred from one county to another, the jurisdiction of the
surrogate's court of each of the counties affected thereby, to take the proof
of a will, or to grant letters, depends upon the locality, when the petition is
presented, of the place, where the property of the decedent is situated, or
where the event occurred, as the case may be, which determines jurisdiction.
If, before the erection of the new county, or the transfer of the territory, let
ters have been granted, upon the ground that the decedent died or resided
within the county, the surrogate's court, from which they were issued, has
exclusive jurisdiction of the estate, and of all matters incidental thereto ;
and if the place where the decedent died or resided is embraced within another
county, certified copies of any papers or proceedings, filed, entered, or
recorded in the surrogate's court thereof, must be furnished on the payment
of the fees therefore, T>y the proper officer, to any person interested in the
estate ; and, upon the latter's request and payment of the fees therefore, the
proper officer of the court so having jurisdiction must file, enter, or record the
same, in like manner and with like effect as the originals. Where the let
ters were granted upon any ground other than the decedent's death or resi
dence within the county, the jurisdiction of the court from which they were
issued, remains unaffected by auy change iu the territorial limits of its
county. [Am'd Ch. 56 op 1883.]
§ 2480 Id. ; transfer of proceedings to proper county. A special
proceeding pending in a surrogate's court, whose jurisdiction to entertain
the same is taken away by the provisions of the last section, or in conse
quence of the erection of a new county, or the alteration of the territorial
limits of a county, after this act takes effect, must be transferred, by order
of the court in which it is pending, to the surrogate's court having jurisdic
tion ; and the latter court has the same jurisdiction, power and authority
with respect thereto, which the former court would have had, if the terri
torial limits of its county had not been changed.
§ 2481. Incidental powers of the surrogate. A surrogate, in court or
out of court, as the case requires, has power :
1. To issue citations to parties, in any matter within the jurisdiction of
his court ; and, in a case prescribed by law, to compel the attendance of a
party.
2. To adjourn, from time to time, a hearing or other proceeding in his
court ; and where all persons who are necessary parties have not been cited
or notified, and citation or notice has not been waived by appearance or
otherwise, it is his duty, before proceeding further, so to adjourn the same,
and to issue a supplemental citation, or require the petitioner to give an
additional notice, as may be necessary.
3. To issue, under the seal of the court, a subpoena, requiring the attend
ance of a witness, residing or being in any part of the State ; or a subpoena
duces tecum, requiring such attendance, and the production of a book or
or paper material to an inquiry pending in the court.
4. To enjoin, by order, an executor, administrator, testamentary trustee,
or guardian, to whom a citation or other process has been duly issued from
his court, from acting as such, until the further order of the court.
5. To require, by order, an executor, administrator, testamentary trustee,
or guardian, subject to the jurisdiction of his court, to perform any duty
imposed upon him, by statute, or by the surrogate's court, under authority
of a statute.
6. To open, vacate, modify, or set aside, or to enter, as of a former time,
a decree or order of his court ; or to grant a new trial or a new hearing for
fraud, newly discovered evidence, clerical error, or other sufficient cause.
The powers, conferred by this subdivision, must be exercised only in a like
case, and in the same manner, as a court of record and of general jurisdic
tion exercises the same powers. Upon an appeal from a determination of
the surrogate, made upon an application pursuant to this subdivision, the
general term of the supreme court has the same power as the surrogate ;
and his determination must be reviewed, as if an original application was
made to that term.
7. To punish any person for a contempt of his court, civil or criminal, in
any case, where, it is expressly prescribed by law that a court of record may
punish a person for a similar contempt, and in like manner.
8. Subject to the provisions of law, relating to the disqualification of a
judge in certain cases, to complete any unfinished business, pending before
his predecessor in the office, including proofs, accountings, and examinations.
9. To complete, and certify and sign in his own name, adding to his sig
nature the date of so doing, all records or papers, left uncompleted or un
signed by any of his predecessors.
10. To exemplify and certify transcripts of all records of his court, or
other papers remaining therein.
11. With respect to any matter not expressly provided for in the foregoing
subdivisions of this section, to proceed, in all matters subject to the cogni
zance of his court, according to the course and practice of a court, having,
by the common law, jurisdiction of Birch matters, except as otherwise pre
scribed by statute ; and to exercise such incidental powers, as are necessary
to carry into effect the powers expressly conferred.
§ 2482. This chapter applicable to previous wills, etc. Each provi
sion of this chapter, relating to the jurisdiction of the surrogate's court, to
take the proof of a will, and to grant letters testamentary, or letters of
administration, or regulating the mode of proceeding in any matter con
nected with the estate of a decedent, applies, unless otherwise expressly
declared therein, whether the will was made, or the decedent died, before
or after this chapter takes effect.
Surrogate and acting surrogate ; their official designations.
Vacancy or disability ; who to act as surrogate.
Id. ; ifsurrogate disqualified.
Id. ; in New York and Kings counties.
Proof of authority.
Id. ; when and how made.
How authority superseded.
Proceedings in New York and Kings counties regulated.
Id. ; transfer of proceedings to surrogate's court.
Temporary surrogate ; when board of supervisors may appoint.
Id. ; comjiensation.
Id. ; acts, etc., where and how recorded.
Surrogate, when not to be counsel, etc.
Surrogate, when disqualified.
Disqualification ; when objection must be taken.
2499. Books to be kept by surrogate.
Papers and books to be preserved.
Surrogate to report fees
III. ; in New York county.
What papers to be transmitted to Secretary of State ; expenses thereof.
8 2483. Surrogate and acting surrogate ; their official designations.
Where the county judge is also surrogate, he may be designated, in any
paper or proceeding relating to the office of surrogate, as the surrogate of
the county, without any addition referring to his office as county judge. A
local officer elected, as prescribed in the constitution, to discharge the duties
of surrogate, or of county judge and surrogate, is designated in this act,
and, when acting as surrogate, may be designated, as the " special surro
gate " of his county. Where an officer, other than the surrogate, acts as
surrogate in a case prescribed by law, he must be designated by his official
title, with the addition of the words, " and acting surrogate."
§ 2484. Vacancy or disability ; who to act as surrogate. Where, in
any county, except New York or Kings, the office of surrogate is vacant ; or
the surrogate is disabled, by reason of sickness, absence, or lunacy ; and
special provision is not made by law, for the discharge of the duties of his
office in that contingency ; the duties of his office must be discharged, until
the vacancy is filled, or the disability ceases, as follows :
1. By the special surrogate.
2. If there is no special surrogate, or he is in like manner disabled, or is
precluded or disqualified, by the special county judge.
3. If there is no special county judge, or he is in like manner disabled,
or is precluded or disqualified, by the county judge.
4. If there is no county judge, Or he is in like manner disabled, or is
precluded or disqualified, by the district attorney.
But before an officer is entitled to act, as prescribed in this section, proof
of his authority to act as prescribed in section 2487 of this act, must be
made.
§ 2485. Id. ; if surrogate disqualified. Where the surrogate of any
county, except New York or Kings, is precluded or disqualified from acting
with respect to any particular matter, his jurisdiction and powers with
respect to that matter vest in the several officers designated in the last sec
tion, in the order therein provided for. If there is no such officer qualified
to act therein, the surrogate may file in his office a certificate stating that
fact ; specifying the reason why he is disqualified or precluded, and desig
nating the surrogate of an adjoining county other than New York or Kings,
to act in his place in the particular matter. Thereupon the surrogate so
designated has, with respect to that matter, all the jurisdiction and powers
of the surrogate making the designation, and may exercise the same in
either county.
§ 2486. Id. ; in New York and Kings counties. In the county of New
York, the court of common pleas for that city and county, at a special term
thereof, and in the county of Kings, the supreme court at a special term
thereof held in the city of Brooklyn, must, upon the presentation of proof
of its authority as prescribed in the next section, exercise all the powers
and jurisdiction of the surrogate's court as follows :
1. Where the surrogate is precluded or disqualified from acting, with
respect to a particular matter, it must exercise all the powers and jurisdic
tion of that court with respect to that matter.
2. Where the office of surrogate of the county is vacant, or the surrogate
is disabled by reason of sickness, absence or lunacy, it must exercise all the
powers and jurisdiction of that court, until the vacancy is filled, or the dis
ability ceases, as the case may be. [Am'd Ch. 535 of 1881.J
§ 2487. Proof of authority. The authority of another officer, or, in the
county of New York, of the court of common pleas, or, in the county of Kings,
of the supreme court, to act as prescribed in the last three sections, must be
proved, in one of the following modes :
1. Where the surrogate is disqualified, or precluded from acting in a par
ticular matter, that fact may be proved by the surrogate's certificate thereof;
or, except as otherwise prescribed in section 2485, by affidavit or oral
testimony.
2. The fact that the surrogate is so disqualified or precluded, or that he
is disabled, or that the office is vacant, and also the authority of the officer, or
of the court, as the case may be, to act in his place, may be proved, and are
deemed conclusively established, by an order of the general term of the
supreme court, held within the department embracing the county. After
such an order is made, the surrogate shall not make the certificate specified
in section 2485 of this act, and if such a certificate has been theretofore filed,
the powers and jurisdiction of the surrogate therein designated, as specified
in that section, thenceforth cease.
§ 2488. Id. ; when and how made. An order may be made, as pre
scribed in subdivision second of the last section, upon or without notice, as
the general term thinks proper. It must recite the cause of the making
thereof, it must designate the officer or court, empowered to discharge the
duties of the office ot surrogate ; and if it relates to a particular matter only,
it must designate that matter. It may, in the discretion of the court, require
an officer to give security, for the due discharge of his duties therein. Where
the office of surrogate is vacant, or the surrogate is disabled by reason of
lunacy, the Attorney-General, if directed by the Governor, must, or the dis
trict-attorney, upon his own motion, may apply for the order ; and the gen
eral term must grant it upon his application. The general term may also
grant the order, upon the application of a party, or a person about to become
a party to any special proceeding in the surrogate's court. Where the sur
rogate is sick or absent, the granting of the order rests in the discretion of
the court, and its effect may be qualified, as the court thinks proper.
§ 2489. How authority superseded. Where an order is made by the
general term, as prescribed in the last two sections, or an appointment is
made by the board of supervisors, as prescribed in section 2492 of this act,
for any cause except a vacancy in the office of surrogate, it may be revoked,
without prejudice to any proceedings theretofore taken by virtue thereof, by
the general term of the department embracing the surrogate's county, upon
proof that it was improvidently made, or that the cause of making it has
become inoperative. Such an order or appointment, made upon the ground
that th>; surrogate's office is vacant, is superseded, without any formal revo
cation, by the filling of the vacancy. After the order or appointment is
revoked, or the vacancy is filled, as the case may be, the unfinished busi
ness, in any proceedings taken by virtue of the order or appointment, must
be transferred to, and may be completed by, the surrogate, in the same
manner and with like effect, as where a new surrogate completes the unfin
ished business of his predecessor.
§ 2490. Proceedings in New York and Kings counties regulated.
In a special proceeding cognizable before a surrogate, taken in the court of
common pleas, or the supreme court, as prescribed in this article, the seal of
the court in which it is taken, must be used, where a seal is necessary. The
special proceeding must be entitled in that court ; and the papers therein
must be filed or recorded, as the case may be, and issues therein must be
tried, as in an action brought in that court. The clerk of that court must
sign each record, which is required to be signed by the surrogate or the
clerk of the surrogate's court. The issuing of a citation may be directed,
and any order intermediate the citation and the decree may be made, by a
judge of the court.
§ 2491. Id. ; transfer of proceedings to surrogate's court. The court
may, at any time, in its discretion, upon being satisfied that the reason for
the exercise of its powers and jurisdiction has ceased to operate, make an
order to transfer to the surrogate's court, any matter then pending before it.
Such an order operates to transfer the same accordingly. Immediately after
such a transfer, or after the revocation of the order of the general term, as
prescribed iii the last section but one, the surrogate must cause entries to be
made in the proper book in his office, referriug to all the papers filed, and
orders entered, or other proceedings taken, in the court of common pleas, or
the supreme court; and he may cause copies of any of the orders or papers
to be made, and recorded or filed in his office, at the expense of the county.
§ 2492. Temporary surrogate ; when board of supervisors may
appoint. In any county, except New York or Kings, if the surrogate is dis
abled, by reason of sickness, absence, or lunacy, or the office of surrogate
becomes vacant before the expiration of a full term, and there is no special
surrogate, or special county judge of the same county, who is competent and
able to act as surrogate, the board of supervisors may, in its discretion,
appoint a suitable person, to act as surrogate, until the surrogate's disability
ceases, or his term of office expires, if the disability continues until then ; or
until a special surrogate or special county judge is elected or appointed. A
person so appointed must, before entering upon the execution of the duties
of his office, take and file an oath of office, and give an official bond, as pre
scribed by law, with respect to a person elected to the office of surrogate.
§ 2493. Id. ; compensation. An officer, or a person appointed by the
board of supervisors, who acts as surrogate of any county during a vacancy
in the office, or in consequence of a disability, as prescribed in the last nine
sections, must be paid, for the time during which he so acts, a compensation
equal pro rata, to the salary of the surrogate ; or, in a county where the
county judge is also surrogate, to the salary of the county judge. The
amount of his compensation must be audited and paid, in like manner as
the salary of the surrogate, or of the county judge, as the case may be.
Where an officer of the county performs the duties of the surrogate, with
respect to a particular matter, wherein the surrogate is disqualified or pre
cluded from acting, the supervisors of the county must allow him a just com
pensation for his services therein, to be audited and collected in the same
manner.
§2494. Id. ; acts, etc., where and how recorded. Where an act is
done, or a proceeding is taken by, before, or by authority of, an officer, or a
person appointed by the board of supervisors, temporarily acting as surro
gate of any county, as prescribed in this article, the same must be recorded,
or the proper minutes thereof must be entered in the books of the surrogate's
court, in like manner as if the same was done, or taken by, before, or by
authority of the surrogate of the county ; and the officer or person so acting,
or the clerk of the surrogate's court, must sign the certificate of probate
and any letters so issued, and must certify the record thereof in the/
book.
y
§ 2495. Surrogate when not to be counsel, etc. A surrogate shall
not be counsel, solicitor, or attorney, in a civil action or special proceeding,
for or against any executor, administrator, temporary administrator, testa
mentary trustee, guardian, or infant, over whom, or whose estate or accounts,
he could have any jurisdiction by law.
§ 2496. Surrogate, when disqualified. In addition to his general dis
qualifications as a judicial officer, a surrogate is disqualified from acting
upon an application for probate, or for letters testamentary, or for letters of
administration, in each of the following cases :
1. Where he is, or claims to be, an heir or one of the next of kin to the
decedent, or a devisee or legatee of any part of the estate.
2. Where he is a subscribing witness, or is necessarily examined or to be
examined as a witness, to any written or nuncupative will.
3. Where he is named as executor, trustee, or guardian, in any will, or
deed of appointment, involved in the matter.
§ 2497. Disqualification ; when objection must be taken. An objec
tion to the power cf a surrogate to act, based upon a disqualification, estab
lished by special provision of law, other than one of those enumerated in
the last section, is waived by an adult party to a special proceeding before
him, unless it is taken at or before the joinder of issue by that party; or,
where an issue in writing is not framed, at or before the submission of the
matter or question to the surrogate.
§ 2498. Books to be kept by surrogate. Each surrogate must provide
and keep the following books :
1. A record-book of wills, in which must be recorded, at length, every
will required by law to be recorded in his office, with the decree admitting
it to probate, and also, if the probate is not contested, the proof taken
thereupon.
2. A record-book of letters testamentary and letters of administration, in
which must be recorded all such letters, issued out of his court.
3. A record-book, in which must be recorded every decree, whereby the
account of an executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian is settled.
4. A book, containing a miuute of every paper filed, or other proceeding
taken, relating to the disposition of the real property of a decedent, and a
record of every order or decree, made thereupon ; with a memorandum of
every report made, and other proceeding taken, founded upon a decree for
such a disposition.
5. A book, containing a record of every decree or order, the record of
which is not required by this section to be kept elsewhere ; together with a
memorandum of each execution issued, and of the satisfaction of each decree
recorded therein.
6. A book, in which must be recorded all letters of guardianship, issued
out of his court.
7. A book of fees and disbursements, in which must be entered, by items,
all fees charged or received by him for services or expenses, and all disburse
ments made or incurred by him, which are chargeable against those fees, or
to the county.
The expense of providing the books specified in this section is a county
charge.
§ 2499. The same. To each of the books, kept as prescribed in the last
section, must be attached an alphabetical index, referring to the page of the
book, where each subject may be found. The surrogate may keep two or
more books, for a further division of the subjects specified in either subdivi
sion of the last section ; in which case, he must keep a separate index to
each set of books. Each decree, revoking the probate of a will, or revoking
or otherwise affecting letters testamentary, letters of administration, or
letters of guardianship, or suspending or removing a testamentary trustee,
or modifying or otherwise affecting any other decree, must be plainly noted
at the end or in the margin of the record of the will, letters, or original
decree, with a reference to the book and page where the subsequent decree
is recorded. The books, kept as prescribed in the last section, appertain to
the surrogate's office, and must be open, at all reasonable times to the inspec
tion of any person.
8 2500. Papers and books to be preserved. A surrogate must care
fully file and preserve in his office, every deposition, affidavit, petition,
report, account, voucher, or other paper, relating to any proceeding in his
court ; and must deliver to his successor all the papers and books kept by
him.
§ 2501. Surrogate to report fees. The surrogate of each county, except
New York, must, at his own expense, make a report to the board of super
visors of the county, on the first day of each annual meeting thereof, con
taining a statement, verified by his oath, of all fees received or charged by
him for services or expenses, since the last report, and of all disbursements
chargeable against the same, or to the county, stating particularly each item
thereof.
§ 2502. Id ; in New York county. The surrogate of the county of
New York must, at his own expense, make and file in the office of the county
clerk, a like report, between the first and twentieth days of January in each
year.
§ 2503. What papers to be transmitted to Secretary of State ; ex
penses thereof A surrogate who admits to probate the will of a person,
who was not a resident of the State at the time of his death ; or grants
original or ancillary letters testamentary upon such a will, or original or
ancillary letters of administration upon the estate of such a person ; must,
within ten days thereafter, transmit to the Secretary of State, to be filed in
his office, a certified copy of the will or letters. The surrogate's fees for
making the copy, and the expenses of transmission, must be audited by the
Comptroller, and paid out of* the treasury upon his warrant.
Surrogate's court ; when to be open.
When surrogate to attend.
When and where court held by county judge.
Seal.
Clerks in surrogate's office.
Clerk of surrogate's court ; how appointed j hia powers.
Id. ; surrogate liable for his acts.
Clerk, etc., not to be appraiser, attorney, etc.
Stenographer for surrogate's courts in New York and Kings.
Id. ; in other counties.
Definition of expressions used in this chapter.

§ 2504. Surrogate's court ; when to be open The surrogate's court
is always open for the transaction of any business, within its powers and
jurisdiction.
§ 2505. When surrogate to attend. The surrogate must, unless pre
vented by sickness or other unavoidable casualty, attend at his office on
Monday of each week, except during the month of August, or where
Monday is a public holiday, on the following Tuesday, to execute the powers
conferred and the duties imposed upon him. But the surrogate of any
county may, by an instrument in writing, under his hand, filed in the office
of the clerk of the county at least twenty days before the first day of Janu
ary in any year, designate a day of the week, other than Monday, on which
he will attend at his office, or a month other than August, during which he
■will be absent therefrom, or both during that year ; and where the county
judge is also surrogate, he is not required to attend at his office on any day
when the county court or the court of sessions is sitting. The surrogate must
also execute the duties of his office, at such other times and places, within
his county, as the public convenience requires. The surrogate of the county
of New York may sign decrees, letters testamentary, of administration and guardktnship, and orders to show cause, during the month of August or such other
month as he shall designate for his vacation, wherever he shall be passing such vaca
tion within the state. [Am'd Ch. 535 of 1881.]
§ 2506. When and where court held by county judge. The surro
gate's court, in a county where the county judge is also surrogate, may be
held at the time and place at which the county court is held ; and, in that
case, the order of business of the county court, the court of sessions, and the
surrogate's court, is under the direction of the county judge.
§ 2507. Seal The surrogate's court has a seal, of which the surrogate
has charge.
§ 2508. Clerks in surrogate's office. Each surrogate may appoint, and
at pleasure remove, as many clerks for his office, to be paid by the county,
as the board of supervisors of his county, or, in the city and county of New
York, the board of aldermen, authorize him so to appoint. The board of
supervisors or the board of aldermen, as the case requires, must fix the com
pensation of the clerk or clerks so appointed ; and may authorize them, or
either of them, to receive, for their or his own use, the legal fees for making
copies of any record or paper in the office of the surrogate. A surrogate
may appoint, and at pleasure remove, as many additional clerks, to be paid
by him, as he thinks proper.
§ 2509. Clerk of surrogate's court ; how appointed ; his powers.
A surrogate may, by a written order, filed and recorded in his office, and
which he may, in like manner, revoke at pleasure, appoint a clerk employed
in his office to be the clerk of the surrogate's court. The clerk so appointed
may exercise concurrently with the surrogate the following powers of the
surrogate :
1. He may certify and sign as clerk of the court any of the records of the
court, including the certificate specified in section 2629 of this act, and the
records and papers specified in subdivision ninth of section 2481, of this act.
2. He may issue any mandate, to which a party is entitled as of course,
either unconditionally, or upon the filing of any paper; and may sign, as
clerk of the court, and affix the seal of the court to, any letters or mandate,
issued from the court.
3. He may certify, in the manner prescribed by chapter ninth of this act,
a copy of any paper, required or permitted by law to be filed or recorded in
the surrogate's office.
4 He may adjourn to a definite time, not exceeding thirty days, any
matter, when the surrogate is absent from his office, or unable, by reason of
other engagements, to attend to the same.
5. He may take the acknowledgment or proof of any instrument, to be
ased or filed in the court of which he is clerk.
The surrogate may prohibit the clerk from exercising any power specified
in this section, but the prohibition does not affect the validity of any act of
the clerk done in disregard of the prohibition.
§ 2510. Id. ; surrogate liable for his acta A surrogate, hereafter
elected or appointed, and the sureties in his official bond, are liable for any
act of the clerk of the surrogate's court in the discharge of his official duties,
during the surrogate's term of office, as if the act was performed by the
surrogate. The surrogate may take security from the clerk, to indemnify
him against the liability created by this section,
§ 2511. Clerk, etc., not to be appraiser, attorney, etc. A clerk or
other person employed in any capacity, in a surrogate's office, shall not act
as appraiser, as attorney or counsel, or as referee or special guardian, in any
matter before the surrogate.
^
§ 2512. Stenographer for surrogates' courts in New York and Kings.
The surrogate if each of the counties of New York and Kings must appoint,
and may, for cause, remove, a stenographer for his court, who is entitled to
a salary fixed by law, and to be paid as the salaries of clerks in the surro
gate's olfice are paid.
§ 2513. Id. ; in other counties. The surrogate of each county, except
New York and Kings, may, in his discretion, appoint, and at pleasure
remove, a stenographer for his court, who shall be paid a reasonable com
pensation, certified by the surrogate, in every case in which he takes notes
of testimony. Such compensation is part of the costs of the proceedings.
§ 2514. Definition of expressions used in this chapter. In construing
the provisions of this chapter, the following rules must be observed, except
where a contrary intent is expressly declared in the provision to be con
strued, or plainly apparent from the context thereof:
1. The word, " intestate," signifies a person who died without leaving a
valid will ; but where it is used with respect to particular property, it signi
fies a person who died without effectually disposing of that property by will,
whether he left a will or not.
2. The word, " assets," signifies personal property applicable to the pay
ment of the debts of a decedent.
3. The word, " debts," includes every claim and demand, upon which a
judgment for a sum of money, or directing the payment of money, could be
recovered in an action ; and the word, " creditor," includes every person
having such a claim or demand.
4. The word, " will," signifies a last will and testament, and includes all
the codicils to a will.
5. The expression, " letters of administration," includes letters of tempo
rary administration.
b\ The expression, " testamentary trustee," includes every person, except
an executor, an administrator with the will annexed, or a guardian, who is
designated by a will, or by any competent authority, to execute a trust
created by a will ; and it includes such an executor or administrator, where
he is acting in the execution of a trust created by the will, which is separa
ble from his functions as executor or administrator.
7. The word, " surrogate," where it is used in the text, or in a bond or
undertaking, given pursuant to any provision of this chapter, includes every
officer or court vested by law with the functions of surrogate.
8. The expression, " judicial settlement," where it is applied to an account,
signifies a decree of a surrogate's court, whereby the account is made con
clusive upon the parties to the special proceeding, either for all purposes, or
for certain purposes specified in the statute ; and an account thus made con
clusive is said to be "judicially settled."
9. The expression, " intermediate account," denotes an account filed in
the surrogate's office, fur the purpose of disclosing the acts of the person
accounting, and the condition of the estate or fund in his hands, and not
made the subject of a judicial settlement.
10. The expression, " upon the return ot a citation," where it is used in a
provision requiring an act to be done in the surrogate's court, relates to the
time and place at which the citation is returnable, or to which the hearing
is adjourned ; includes a supplemental citation, issued to bring in a party
who ought to be, but has not been cited ; and implies that, before doing the
act specified, due proof must be made, that all persons required to be cited
have been duly cited.
11. The expression, "person interested," where it is used in connection
with an estate or a fund, includes every person entitled, either absolutely or
contingently, to share in the estate or the proceeds thereof, or in the fund,
as husband, wife, legatee, next of kin, heir, devisee, assignee, grantee, or
otherwise, except as a creditor. Where a provision of this chapter pre
scribes that a person interested may object to an appointment, or may apply
for an inventory, an account, or increased security, an allegation of his inter
est, duly verified, suffices, although his interest is disputed ; unless he has
been excluded by a judgment, decree, or other final determination, and no
appeal therefrom is pending.
12. The term, " next of kin," includes all those entitled, under the pro
visions of law relating to the distribution of personal property, to share in
the unbequeathed residue of the assets of a decedent after payment of debts
and expenses, other than a surviving husband or wife.
13. The expression, " real property," includes every estate, interest, and
right, legal or equitable, in lands, tenements, or hereditaments, except those
which are determined or extinguished by the death of a person seized or
possessed thereof, or in any manner entitled thereto, and except those which
are declared by law to be assets. The word, " inheritance," signifies real
property, as defined in this subdivision, descended as prescribed by law.
The expression, " personal property," signifies every kind of property which
survives a decedent, other than real property as defined in this subdivision,
and includes a right of action conferred by special statutory provision upon
an executor or administrator.
Substitute for personal service upon a resident.
Service by publication, etc.
Id. ; upon persons unknown, etc
Order ; when and how made ; contents thereof.
What time required for delivery of copy, etc.
Service upon a coi-poration, infant, lunatic, etc.
Id. ; upon infant, etc. ; additional requirement in certain cases.
Appearance ; how made, and effect thereof.
Surrogate's son not to practice before him.
Special guardian ; when to be appointed.
Notice of proceedings to appoint special guardian.
Proof of service of citation, subpoena, etc.
Written pleadings may be required.
Verification thereof.
2536. Publication of citation, etc.
Money paid into court and securities taken ; how disposed of.
Certain provisions made applicable to proceedings in surrogates' courts.

§ 2515. Process ; how executed and returnable. A citation or other
mandate of a surrogate's court must, except where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law, be made returnable before the surrogate from whose court
it was issued, and may be served or executed in any county. A warrant
of attachment must be directed to the sheriff of the surrogate's county, who
may execute it in any county, and must convey the person arrested to the
place where it is returnable.
§ 2516. Proceedings to be commenced by citation Except in a case
where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, a special proceeding in a
surrogate's court must be commenced by the service of a citation, issued
upon the presentation of a petition. But upon the presentation of the peti
tion, the court acquires jurisdiction to do any act which may be done before
actual service of the citation.
§ 2517. Id ; within the statute of limitations. The presentation of a
petition is deemed the commencement of a special proceeding, within the
meaning of any provision of this act, which limits the time for the com
mencement thereof. But in order to entitle the petitioner to the benefit of
this section, a citation, issued upon the presentation of the petition, must,
within sixty days thereafter, be served, as prescribed in section 2520 of this
act, upon the adverse party, or upon one of two or more adverse parties,
who are jointly liable, or otherwise united in interest ; or, within the same
time, the first publication thereof must be made pursuant to an order made
as prescribed in section 2522 of this act.
8 2518. Persons constituting a class ; when to be cited ; citation "
when some are unknown. Where it is prescribed, in any pro
vision of this chapter, that a petition must pray that a person, or that
creditors, next of kin, legatees, heirs, devisees, or other persons constituting
a class, may be cited for any purpose, all those persons are necessary parties
to the special proceeding. Where persons to be cited constitute a class, the
name of each of them, unless
petitioner
the name, or part of the name, of one or more of them cannot, after diligent
inquiry, be ascertained by him ; in which case, that fact must be set forth,
and the surrogate must, thereupon, inquire into the matter. For the pur
pose of the inquiry, he may, in his discretion, issue a subpoena, requiring
any person to attend before him to testify respecting the matter. If he is
satisfied, upon the allegations of the petitioner, or after making the inquiry,
that the name of one or more of the persons to be cited, cannot be ascertained
with reasonable diligence, the citation may be directed to that person or
those persons, by a general designation, showing his, her, or their connection with the decedent, or interest in the property or matter in question ; or
otherwise sufficiently identifying the person or persons intended. A cita
tion, thus directed, has the same force and effect, as if it was directed to the
person or persons intended, by their names ; and where the person or per
sons so intended are duly cited, in any manner prescribed by law, the decree
binds them, as if they were named therein. A petition, duly verified, is
deemed an affidavit, within the meaning of this section.
Jl 2519. Contents of citation. A citation must be made returnable upon
ay certain, designated therein, not more than four months after the date
thereof; and must specify whose estate or what subject-matter is in ques
tion. The names of all the persons to be cited, as far as they can be ascer
tained, must be contained in the citation. Where the name, or part of the
name, of either of them cannot be ascertained, that fact must be stated in
the citation.
§ 2520. Citation ; how served within the State. Except where special
provision is otherwise made by law, service of a citation, within the State,
must be made upon an adult person, or an infant of the age of fourteen years
or upwards, by delivering a copy thereof to the person to be served, or by
leaving a copy at his residence, or the place where he sojourns, with a per
son of suitable age and discretion, under such circumstances, that the sur
rogate has good reason to believe that the copy came to his knowledge, in
time for him to attend at the return day. A citation must be so served, if
within the county of the surrogate, or an adjoining county, at least eight
days before the return day thereof; if in any other county, at least fifteen
days before the return day ; unless, in either case, the person served, being
an adult, and not incompetent, assents in writing to a service within a shorter
time. Any person, although a party to the special proceeding, may serve a
citation.
§ 2521. Substitute for personal service upon a resident Where it
appears, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the surrogate from whose court a
citation issued, that proper and diligent effort has been made to serve it
upon a resident of the State, as prescribed in the last section ; and that the
person to be served cannot be found, or, if found, that he evades service, so
that it cannot be made ; the surrogate may make an order, directing that
service thereof be made, as prescribed in section 436 of this act ; and the
provisions of that section and of section 437 of this act, relating to the ser
vice of a summons, apply to the service of a citation, pursuant to an order
made as prescribed in this section.
§ 2522. Service by publication, etc. The surrogate from whose court
a citation is issued may make an order directing the service thereof with
out the state, or by publication, in either of the following cases :
1. Where it is to be served upon a foreign corporation, or upon a person
who is not a resident of the state.
2. Where the person to be served, being a resident of the state, has
departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the ser
vice of process.
3. Where the person to be served, wlielher an adult or an infant, is a resi
dent of the slate but is temporarily absent therefrom. [Am'd Ch. 664 op 1881.]
4. Where the person to be served is a resident of the state, or a domestic
corporation, and an attempt was made to serve a citation, issued from the*
same surrogate's court, upon the presentation of the same petition, before
the expiration of the limitation applicable to the enforcement of the claim
set forth in the petition, as fixed in chapter fourth of this act ; and the limi
tation would have expired, within sixty days next preceding the application
for the order, if the time has not been extended by the attempt to serve the
citation.
§ 2523. Id. ; upon persons unknown, etc. The surrogate may also make
an order, directing the service of a citation without the State, or by publica
tion, in either of the following cases :
1. Upon a party to whom a citation is directed, either by his full name or
part of his name, where the surrogate is satisfied, by affidavit, that the
residence of that party cannot, after diiigent inquiry, be ascertained by the
petitioner.
2. Upon one or more unknown creditors, next of kin, legatees, heirs,
devisees, or other persons included in a class, to whom a citation has been
directed, designating them by a general description, as prescribed in this
article.
§ 2524 Order when and how made ; contents thereof Where an
order directing the service of a citation without the state, or by publica
tion, is made, as prescribed in either of the last two sections, the party
applying therefore must produce proof, by affidavit or otherwise, to the sat
isfaction of the surrogate, that the case is one of those specified in those
seer is. The order must direct that service of the citation upon the
person named or described in the order be made by publication of the
citation in two newspapers, designated as prescribed in this article, for a
specified time, which the surrogate deems reasonable, not less than once in
each of six successive weeks ; or, at the option of the petitioner, by deliver
ing a copy of the citation, without the state, to each person so named or
described, in person, and if the person to be served is an infant under the age of
fourteen years, also to the person with whom he is sojourning, or if the service is
made upon a corporation, to an officer thereof, specified in section 431 or 432
of this act. It must also contain either a direction that on or before the
day of the first publication, the petitioner deposit in a specified post-office,
a copy of the citation and of the order contained, in a securely closed post
paid wrapper, directed to the person to be served, at a place specified in the
order ; and if the person to be serried is an infant under the age of fourteen years,
a further copy, likewise contained in a securely closed post-paid wrapper, directed
to the person with whom such infant is sojourning ; or, a statement that the
surrogate, being satisfied by the affidavit upon which the order was
granted, that the petitioner cannot, with reasonable diligence, ascertain a
place or places where the person to be served would probably receive matter
transmitted through the post-office, dispenses with the deposit of any papers
therein. [Am'd Ch. 664 of 1881.]
§ 2525. What time required for delivery of copy, etc. Where service
is made by delivering a copy of the citation without the State, pursuant to
an order made as prescribed iu the last section, it must be made, if wiihin
the United States, at least thirty days, if without the United Spates, at least
forty days, before the return dny of the citation. Proof of publication,
deposit, or delivery may be made as prescribed in section 444 of this act.
[Am'd Ch. 399 of 1882. See § 2.]
§ 2526. Service upon a corporation, infant, lunatic, etc. Service of a
citation must be made upon an infant under the age of fourteen years, a
person judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs by reason
of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual drunkenness, or a corporation, in the manner
prescribed for personal service of a summons upon such a person, or upon a
corporation, in article first of title first of chapter fifth of this act.
§ 2527. Id. ; upon infant, etc. ; additional requirement in certain
cases. Where a person, cited or to be cited, is an infant of the age of four
teen years or upwards, or where the surrogate has, in his opinion, reason
able grounds to believe, that a person, cited or to be cited, is an habitual
drunkard, or for any cause mentally incapable adequately to protect his
rights, although not judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his
affairs, the surrogate may, in his discretion, with or 'without an application
therefore, and in the interest of that person, make an order requiring that a
copy of the citation be delivered, in behalf of that person, to a person desig
nated in the order ; and that service of the citation shall not be deemed
complete until such delivery. "Where the person, cited or to be cited, is an
infant under the age of fourteen years, or a person judicially declared to be
incompetent to manage his affairs, by reason of lunacy, idiocy, or habitual
drunkenness, and the surrogate has reasonable ground to believe that the
interest of the person, to whom a copy of the citation was delivered, in
behalf of the infant or incompetent person, is adverse to that of the infant
or incompetent person, or that, for any reason, he is not a fit person to
protect the latter's rights, the surrogate may likewise make such an order ;
and as a part thereof, or by a separate order, made in like manner at any
stage of the proceedings, he may appoint a special guardian ad litem to
conduct the proceedings in behalf of the incompetent person, to the exclu
sion of the committee, and with the same powers, and subject to the same
liabilities, as a committee of the property.
§ 2528. Appearance ; how made, and effect thereof In a surro
gate's court, a party of full age may, unless he has been judicially, declared
to be incompetent to manage his affairs, prosecute or defend a special pro
ceeding, in person or by an attorney regularly admitted to practice in the
courts of record, at his election except in a proceeding to punish him for a
contempt, or where he is required to appear in person, by special provision
of law, or by a special order of the surrogate. The appearance of a party,
against whom a citation has been issued, has the same effect, as the appear
ance of a defendant, in an action brought in the supreme court.
8 2529. Surrogate's son not to practice before him. A surrogate's
father or son shall not practice or be employed as attorney or counsel, in
any case, in which his partner or clerk is prohibited by law from so practic§ 2530. Special guardian ; when to be appointed. Where a party,
who is an infant, does not appear by his general guardian ; or where a
party, who is a lunatic, idiot, or habitual drunkard, does not appear by his
committee, the surrogate must appoint a competent and responsible person,
to appear as special guardian for that party. Where an infant appears by
his general guardian, or where a lunatic, idiot, or habitual drunkard,
appears by his committee, the surrogate must inquire into the facts, and
must, in like manner, appoint a special guardian, if there is any ground to
suppose that the interests of the general guardian or committee is adverse
to that of the infant, or incompetent person ; or that, for any other reason,
the interests of the latter require the "appointment of a special guardian.
A person cannot be appointed such a- special guardian, unless his written
consent is filed, at or before the time of entering the order appointing him.
§ 2531. Notice of proceedings to appoint special guardian. Where a
person, other than the infant, or the committee of the incompetent person,
applies for the appointment of a special guardian, as prescribed in the last
section, at least eight days notice of the application must be personally served
upon the infant, or incompetent person, if he is within the State, and also upon
the committee, if any, in like manner as a citation is required by law to be
served. But except in a case specified in title fifth of this chapter, the
surrogate may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time, and
direct the service of the order to be made in such a manner as he deems
proper. The application may be made at the time of presenting the peti
tion, and, in that case, the order to show cause may, in the surrogate's dis
cretion, accompany the citation.
§ 2532. Proof of service of citation, subpoena, etc. Proof of service
of a citation, or a subpoena, issued from a surrogate's court, must be made
in the manner prescribed by law, for proof of service of a summons issu-d
out of the supreme court. In every other case, proof of service must be
made by affidavit ; or, where the person served is of full age and not incom
petent, by a written admission signed by him, accompanied with proof, by
affidavit or otherwise, of the genuineness of his signature.
§ 2533. Written pleadings may be required. The surrogate may, at
any time, require a party to file a written petition or answer, containing a
plain and concise statement of the facts constituting his claim, objection, or
defense, and a demand of the decree, order, or other relief, to which he
supposes himself to be entitled. The surrogate may require the petition or
answer to be verified, and a copy thereof to be served upon any other person
interested. A party who fails to comply with such a requirement may be
treated as a party in default. Except where such a requirement is made,
or in a case where a written petition is expressly required by this act, a peti
tion, or the answer thereto, may be presented orally ; in which case, the
substance thereof must be entered in the records of the courts.
t2534. Verification thereof The provisions of sections 523, 524, 525,
526 of this act apply to a verification made pursuant to this chapter,
and to the petition or other paper so verified, where they can be so applied
in substance, without regard to the form of the proceeding.
§ 2535. Publication of citation, etc. Where a provision of this chapter,
or an order made pursuant to such a provision, directs the publication of a
citation, notice, or other paper, or the service thereof by publication, the
publication must be made in a newspaper published in the county. The
surrogate may, also, in his discretion, direct the publication thereof in any
other newspaper published in the same or another county, as he deems
proper, for the purpose of giving notice to the persons intended to be served
or notified. If no newspaper is published in the county, the citation, notice
or other paper, must be published in the newspaper printed at Albany, in
which legal notices are required by law to be published.
§ 2536. The same. In either of the following cases, a citation, notice, or
other paper, directed to be published by a provision of this chapter, or by
an order made pursuant to such a provision, must, in addition to the publi
cation thereof, made as prescribed in the last section, be published in the
newspaper printed at Albany, in which legal notices are required by law to
be published :
1. Where the special proceeding is instituted in ihe surrogate's court of
the county of New York, or of the county of Kings, or the order for publi
cation is made by the surrogate of either of those counties.
2. Where the special proceeding relates to the estate of a decedent, and
the order directs the additional publication therein. Such a direction may
be given, in the discretion of the surrogate, where the person upon whom
the service is to be made, or to whom notice is to be given, is not a resident
of the State. But where it affirmatively appears, from the papers upon
which the order is granted, or from the papers then on file in the surrogate's
court, relating to the same estate, that the property of the decedent, or, if
the special proceeding relates to a portion only of the property, that the
portion to which it relates, does not exceed two thousand dollars in value,
the order may, in the discretion of the surrogate, direct the publication
required by this section to be made gratuitously ; in which case, that news
paper must make the publication without charge.
§ 2537. Money paid into court and securities taken ; how disposed
of Where a statute requires the payment of money into the surrogate's
court, or the deposit of a security, for the payment of money, with the sur
rogate, the same must be paid to or deposited with the county treasurer of
the county, to the credit of the fund, or of the estate, or of the special pro
ceeding; unless the statute contains special directions for another disposition
thereof. Each security, so deposited with the county treasurer, must be held
and disposed of by him, subject to the direction of the surrogate's court ;
except that he must, unless otherwise so directed, collect the principal and
interest secured thereby. All money collected by or paid to the county
treasurer, as prescribed by this section, must be held, managed, invested,
and disposed of by him, in like manner as money paid into the supreme
court in an action pending therein. The regulations, contained in the gen
eral rules of practice, as specified in section 744 of this act, and the provis
ions of title third of chapter eighth of this act, apply to money paid to and
securities deposited with the county treasurer, as pi-escribed in this section ;
except that the surrogate's court exercises, with respect thereto, or with
respect to security, in which any of the money has been invested, or upon
which it has been loaned, the power and authority conferred upon the
supreme court by section 747 of this act. [Am'd Ch. 399 op 1882. See § 2.]
§ 2538. Certain provisions made applicable to proceedings in surro
gates' courts. Except where a contrary intent is expressed in, or plainly
implied from the context of, a provision of this chapter, the following por
tions of this act, to wit : title first, and articles third and fourth of title sixth,
of chapter eighth, and articles first and second of title third of chapter ninth,
Testimony of aged, rick, or infirm witness.
Id. ; in another county.
Duty of stenographer.
How minutes of testimony authenticated.
Id. ; to be bound in volumes, etc.
§ 2539. Testimony of aged, sick, or infirm witness. Upon the applica
tion of a party to a special proceeding, and upon proof, by affidavit, to the
satisfaction of the surrogate, that the testimony of a witness in his county,
who is so aged, sick, or infirm, as to be imable to attend before him to be
examined, is material and necessary to the applicant, the surrogate must,
where the special proceeding was instituted to procure the probate or revoca
tion of probate of a will, and, in any other case, may, in his discretion, pro
ceed to the place where the witness is, and there, as in open court, take his
examination. Such a notice of the time and place of taking the examina
tion, as the surrogate prescribes, must be given, by the party applying
therefore, to each other party, except a party who has failed to appear as
required by the citation. The surrogate may also, in his discretion, require
notice to be given to any other person interested.
§ 2540. Id. ; in another county. In a case specified in the last section,
except that the witness is in another county, where the witness is a subscribing
witness to a will, if the surrogate has good reason to believe that the
witness cannot attend beforo him, within a reasonable time, to which the
hearing may be adjourned, he may make an order, directing that the
witness be examined before the surrogate of the county in which he is,
specifying a day, on or before which a certified copy of the order must
be delivered to the latter surrogate ; and directing notice of the exam
ination to be given to such persons, and in such manner as he thinks proper.
A copy of the order, attested by the seaf of the surrogate's court, must be
transmitted, by him, to the surrogate designated in the order, together with
the original will where the testimony relates to the execution of a written
will. The latter surrogate must thereupon, on the day specified in the
order, or on another day to which he may adjourn the examination, take the
examination of the witness, as if he possessed original jurisdiction of the
special proceeding. The examination after it is reduced to writing, and sub
scribed by the witness or otherwise duly authenticated, together with a
statement of the proceedings upon the execution of the order, must be certi
fied by the surrogate taking the examination, attested by the seal of his
court, and returned without delay, with the original will, if any, to the
surrogate who directed the examination, by whom all those papers must be
filed. And in the other cases named in said section 2539 he may appoint a referee
to take the testimony who shall report the same to the said surrogate. An exam
ination so taken has the same effect as if it was taken before the latter sur
rogate. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881.]
§ 2541. Duty of stenographer. The stenographer of a surrogate's court
must, under the direction of the surrogate, take full stenographic notes of
all proceedings, in which oral proofs are given, except where the surrogate
otherwise directs. The testimony must be legibly written out at length by
him, from his notes ; and the minutes thereof, as so written out, must, after
being authenticated, as prescribed in the next section, be filed in the surro
gate s office.
§ 2542. How minutes of testimony authenticated The minutes of
testimony, written out as prescribed in the last section, or taken by the
surrogate, or under his direction, while the witness is testifying, must,
before being filed, be authenticated by the signature of the stenographer,
referee, the surrogate or the clerk of the surrogate's court, as the case may be,
to the effect that they are correct. [Am'd Ch. 535 of 1881.J
§ 2543. Id. ; to be bound in volumes. In the city and county of New
York, in the county of Kings, and in any other county where the supervisors
so direct, the minutes of testimony written out by the stenographer must be
bound, at the expense of the county, in volumes of convenient size and shape,
indorsed " Stenographic minutes," and numbered consecutively. Upon the
record of a decree made in any contested matter, the surrogate must cause
to be made a minute, referring to each volume of the stenographic minutes,
and to the pages thereof, containing any testimony relating to the matter.
§ 2544. Bequest, etc., does not disqualify, etc., witness. A person is
not disqualified or excused, from testifying respecting the execution of a
will, by a provision therein, whether it is beneficial to him or otherwise.
§ 2545. Exceptions upon a trial An exception may be taken to a rul
ing by a surrogate, upon the trial by him of an issue of fact, including a
finding, or a refusal to find, upon a question of fact, in a case where 6uch an
exception may be taken to a ruling of the court upon a trial, without a jury,
of an issue of fact, as prescribed in article third of title first of chapter tenth
of this act. The provisions of that article, relating to the manner and effect
of taking such an exception, and the settlement of a case containing the
exceptions, apply to such a trial before a surrogate ; for which purpose, the
decree is regarded as a judgment, and notice of an exception may be filed
in the surrogate's office. Upon such a trial the surrogate must file in hi?
office his decision in writing, which must state, separately, the facts found
and the conclusions of law. Either party may, upon the settlement of a
case, request a finding upon any question of fact, or a ruling upon any
question of law ; and an exception may be taken to such a finding or ruling,
or to a refusal to find or rule accordingly. An appeal from a decree or an
order of a surrogate's court brings up for review, by each court to which the
appeal is carried, each decision, to which an exception is duly taken by the
appellant, as prescribed in this section. But such a decree or order shall
not be reversed, for an error in admitting or rejecting evidence, unless it
appears to the appellate court that the exceptant was necessarily prejudiced
thereby.
§ 2546. Surrogate may refer questions of fact, or accounts. In a
special proceeding, other than one instituted for probate or revocation of
probate of a will, the surrogate may, in his discretion, appoint a referee to
take and report to the surrogate the evidence upon the facts, or upon a spe
cific question of fact ; to examine an account rendered, to hear and determine
all questions, arising upon the settlement of such an account, which the sur
rogate has power to determine ; and to make a report thereon, subject,
however, to confirmation by the surrogate. Such a referee has the same
power, and is entitled to the same compensation, as a referee appointed by
the supreme court, for the trial of an issue of fact in an action ; and the
provisions of this act applicable to a reference, by the supreme court apply
to a reference, made as prescribed in this section, so far as they can be
applied in substance, without regard to the form of the proceeding. The
surrogate of the county of New York may, on the written consent of all the par
ties appearing in a probate case, appoint a referee to take and report the testimony
therein. [Am'd Ch. 535 of 1881.]
§ 2547. Trial of jury ; when ordered. The surrogate may, in his dis
cretion, make an order, directing the trial by a jury, at a circuit court to be
held within the county, or in the county court of the county, or, in the city
and county of New York, in the court of common pleas, of any controverted
question of fact, arising in a special proceeding for the disposition of the
real property of a decedent, as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter. The
order must state, distinctly and plainly, each question of fact to be tried J
and it is the only authority necessary for the trial.
§ 2548. Id. ; how reviewed. A trial by a jury, pursuant to an order
made as prescribed in the last section, can be reviewed, in the first instance,
only upon a motion for a new trial. A new trial may be granted by the
surrogate, or the court in which the trial took place, or if it took place at
the circuit court, by the supreme court, in a case where a new trial of spe
cific questions of fact, tried by a jury, pursuant to an order for such a trial,
made in an action, would be granted. The verdict of the jury must be
certified to the surrogate's court, by the clerk of the court in which the trial
took place.
§ 2549. Appeal from order thereupon. An appeal may be taken from
an order, made upon a motion for a new trial, as prescribed in the last sec
tion, as if the order had been made in an action, and with like effect. Costs
of such an appeal may be awarded by the appellate court, as if the appeal
was from an order or decree of the surrogate's court.
§ 2550. Definition of "final order" and "decree." The final deter
mination of the rights of the parties to a special proceeding in a surrogate's
court, is styled, indifferently, a final order, or a decree.
§ 2551. Decree settling an account, to contain summary thereof
Each decree, whereby an account is judicially settled, must contain, in the
body thereof, a summary of the account as settled ; or must refer to such a
summary, which must be recorded in the same book, and is deemed a part
of the decree.
§ 2552. Decree or order ; when evidence of assets. A decree, direct
ing payment by an executor, administrator, or testamentary trustee, to a
creditor of, or a person interested in, the estate or fund, or an order, per
mitting a judgment creditor to issue an execution against an executor or
administrator, is, except upon an appeal therefrom, conclusive evidence that
there are sufficient assets in his hands, to satisfy the sum which the decree
directs him to pay, or for which the order permits the execution to issue.
§ 2553. Decree for money ; how docketed. Where a decree directs
the payment of a sum of money into court, or to one or more persons therein
designated, the surrogate, or the clerk of the surrogate's court, must, upon
payment of his fees, furnish to any person applying therefore, one or more
transcripts, duly attested, stating all the particulars, with respect to the
decree, which are required by law to be entered in the clerk's docket-book,
where a judgment for a sum of money is rendered in the supreme court, so
far as the provisions of law, directing such entries, are applicable to such a
decree. Each county clerk, to whom such a transcript is presented, must,
upon payment of his fees, immediately file it, and docket the decree in the
appropriate docket-book, kept in his office, as prescribed by law for docket
ing a judgment of the supreme court. The docketing of such a decree has
the same force and effect, the lien thereof may be suspended or discharged,
and the decree may be assigned or satisfied, as if it was such a judgment.
§ 2554. Enforcement of decree by execution. A decree, directing the
payment of a sum of money into court, or to one or more parties, may be
enforced by an execution against the property of the party directed to make
the payment. The execution must be issued by the surrogate, or the clerk
of the surrogate's court, under the seal of the court, and must be made return
able to the court. In all other respects, the provisions of this act, relating
to an execution against the property of a judgment-debtor, issued upon a
judgment of the supreme court, and the proceedings to collect it, apply to
an execution issued from the surrogate's court, and the collection thereof,
the decree being, for that purpose, regarded as a judgment ; except that
the proceedings prescribed in title twelfth of chapter seventeenth of this
act, if founded upon such a decree, must be taken, as if the decree was a
judgment of the county court, or, in the city of New York, of the court of
common pleas.
§ 2555. Id. ; by punishment for contempt. In either of the following
cases, a decree of a surrogate's court, directing the payment of money, or
requiring the performance of any other act, may be enforced, by serving a
certified copy thereof upon the party against whom it is rendered, or the
officer or person who is required thereby, or by law, to obey it ; and if he
refuses or willfully neglects to obey it, by punishing him for a contempt of
court :
1. Where it cannot be enforced by execution, as prescribed in the last
section.
2. Where part of it cannot be so enforced by execution ; in which case,
the part or parts, which cannot be so enforced, may be enforced as prescribed
in this section.
3. Where an execution, issued as prescribed iti the last section, to the
sheriff of the surrogate's county, has been returned by him wholly or partly
unsatisfied.
4. Where the delinquent is an executor, administrator, guardian, or testa
mentary trustee, and the decree relates to the fund or estate, in which case
the surrogate may enforce the decree as prescribed in this section, either
without issuing an execution, or after the return of an execution, as he
thinks proper.
If the delinquent has given an official bond, his imprisonment, by virtue
of proceedings to punish him for a contempt, as prescribed in this section,
or a levy upon his property by virtue of an execution, issued as prescribed
in the last section, does not bar, suspend, or otherwise affect an action
against the sureties in his official bond.
§ 2556 Definition of " order ; " how enforced A direction of a surro
gate's court, made or entered in writing, and not included in a decree, is
styled an order. It may be enforced in like manner as a similar order, made
by the supreme court in an action ; and the costs are the same as upon such
an order, and ^ay be collected in like manner.
§ 2557. Costs ; how made payable. Except where special provision is
otherwise made by law, costs, awarded by a decree, may be made payable
by the party personally, or out of the estate, or fund, as justice requires ; but
costs, other than actual expenses, cannot be awarded to be paid out of an
estate or fund, which is less than one thousand dollars in amount or value.
§ 2558. Id. ; when awarded. The award of costs in a decree, is in the
discretion of the surrogate, except in one of the following cases :
1. Where special directions, respecting the award of costs, are contained
in a judgment or order, made upon an appeal from the surrogate's determin
ation, or upon a motion for a new trial of questions of fact tried by a jury ;
in either of which cases, costs must be awarded according to those directions.
2. When a question of fact has been tried by a jury ; in which case, unless
it is within the foregoing subdivision, the decree must award costs to the
successful party.
3. When the decree is made upon a contested application for probate, or
revocation of probate of a will, costs, payable out of the estate or otherwise,
shall not be awarded to an unsuccessful contestant of the will, unless he is a
special guardian for an infant, appointed by the surrogate, or is named as an
executor in a paper propounded by him,in good faith, as the last will of the
decedent ; but the surrogate may order a copy of the stenographer's minutes to be
furnished to the contestant's counsel, and charge the expense thereof to the estate if he
thall be satisfied that the contest is made in good faith. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881.]
§ 2559. Id. ; how awarded. Costs, when awarded by a decree include
all disbursements of the party to whom they are awarded, which might be
taxed in the supreme court. The sum allowed for costs must be fixed by the
surrogate, and inserted in the decree.
8 2560. Id. ; when the same as in supreme court. Where a question
of fact has been tried by a jury, the costs, awarded against the unsuccessful
party, are the same as the taxable costs of an action in the supreme court.
The costs of an appeal, where they are awarded in a surrogate's court, are
the same as if they were awarded in the supreme court.
§ 2561. When surrogate to fix amount of costs. In a case other than
one of those specified in the last section, the surrogate, upon rendering a
decree, may, in his discretion, fix such a sum, to be allowed as costs, in addi
tion to the disbursements, as he deems reasonable, not exceeding, where there
has not been a contest, twenty-five dollars, or where there has beenacontest,
seventy dollars ; and, in addition thereto, where a trial or hearing upon the
merits before the surrogate necessarily occupies more than two days, ten
dollars for each additional day ; and where a motion for a new trial is made
before the surrogate, if it is granted, seventy dollars ; if it is denied, forty
dollars.
§ 2562. Additional allowance in settling accounts. In addition to the
sums specified in the last two sections, the surrogate may, in his discretion,
allow to an executor, administrator, guardian, or testamentary trustee, upon
a judicial settlement of his acount or on an intermediate accounting required
by the surrogate, such a sum, as the surrogate deems reasonable, for his
counsel fees and other expenses, not exceeding ten dollars for each day
occupied in the trial, and necessarily occupied in preparing his account for
settlement, and otherwise preparing for the trial. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881.]
§ 2563. Allowance upon sale of real property. Upon the disposition
of real property of a decedent, as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter,
the executor, administrator, or freeholder, disposing of the property, must
be allowed by the surrogate, out of the proceeds of the sale brought into
court, his expenses ; aud he may be allowed, out of the proceeds, a reason
able sura fur his own services, not exceeding five dollars for each day actually
and necessarily occupied by him in disposing of the property, and such a
further sum as the surrogate thinks reasonable, for the necessary services of
his attorney and counsel therein.
§ 2564. Id. ; no commissions allowed. The allowances, specified in the
last section, are in lieu of commissions.
§ 2565. Fees of appraiser. An appraiser is entitled, in addition to his
actual expenses, to a sura, to be fixed by the surrogate, not exceeding five
dollars for each day actually and necessarily occupied by him in making the
appraisal or inventory. The number of days' services and the expenses, if
any, must be proved by the affidavit of the appraiser ; and the sums pay
able therefore taxed by the surrogate, and paid by the executor or adminis
trator.
§ 2566. Id ; other officers and witnesses. Each other officer, includ
ing a referee, and each witness is entitled to the same fees for his services
and for travelling, as he is allowed for like services in the supreme court.
§ 2567. Fees of the surrogate. A surrogate shall not charge or receive
any fee, except as follows :
1. Where, in a case prescribed by law, or in any other case, upon the
application of a party, he goes to a place other than his office, or the court
room where he is required to hold court, in order to take testimony, he may
charge, and receive to his own use, ten cents for each mile for going, and
the same sum for returning.
2. He must charge, and receive to the use of the county, for a copy of a
paper, ten cents for each folio, except where the board of supervisors have
allowed his clerk to receive fees for his own use ; and in that case, his clerk
may charge and receive the same fee.
§ 2568. When party may appeal Any party aggrieved may appeal
from a decree or an order of a surrogate's court, in a case prescribed in this
article, except where the decree or order of which he complains was rendered
or made upon his default.
§ 2569. When person not a party may appeal. A creditor of, or per
son interested in, the estate or fund affected by the decree or order, who
was not a party to the special proceeding, but was entitled by law to bo
heard thereiu, upon his application ; or who has acquired, since the decree
or order was made, a right or interest which would have entitled him to be
heard, if it had been previously acquired ; may intervene and appeal, as
prescribed in this article. The facts which entitle such a person to appeal,
must be shown by an affidavit, which must be filed, and a copy thereof
served with the notice of appeal.
§ 2570. Appeal ; to what court it may be taken. An appeal to the
supreme court may be taken from a decree of a surrogate's court, or from an
order affecting a substantial right, made by a surrogate, or by a surrogate's
court in a special proceeding pending in that court, or after a decree in such
a special proceeding.
§ 2571. Intermediate order ; how reviewed. An appeal taken from a
decree, brings up for review each intermediate order, which is specified in
the notice of appeal, and necessarily affected the decree, and which has not
' already been reviewed by the appellate court, upon a separate appeal taken
from that order.
§ 2572. Time to appeal. An appeal by a party must be taken within
thirty days after the service, upon the appellant, or upon the attorney, if
any, who appeared for him in the surrogate's court, of a copy of the decree,
or order from which the appeal is taken, and a written notice of the entry i
thereof. An appeal by a person who was not a party, taken as prescribed
in this article, must be taken within three months after the entry of the
decree or order, unless the appellant's title was acquired by means of an
assignment or conveyance from a party ; in which case, the appeal must be
taken within the time limited for the taking thereof by the assignor or
grantor.
§ 2573. Who must be made parties. Each party to the special pro
ceeding in the surrogate's court, and each person not a party, who has, or
claims to have, in the subject-matter of the decree or order, a right or
interest, which is directly affected thereby, and which appears upon the face
of the papers presented in the surrogate's court, or has become manifest in
the course of the proceedings taken therein, must be made a party to the
appeal. A person not a party, but who must be made a party, as prescribed
in this section, may be brought in by an order of the appellate court, made
after the appeal is taken ; or the appeal may be dismissed on account of his
absence. The appellate court may prescribe the mode of bringing in such
a person, by publication, by personal service or otherwise. But this section
does not require a person interested, but not a party, to be brought in, if he
was legally represented, or was duly cited in the court below.
§ 2574. Appeal ; how taken. An appeal must be taken by the service,
within the State, upon each party to the special proceeding, other than the
appellant, and upon the surrogate, or the clerk of the surrogate's court, of a
written notice, referrin : to the decree -or order appealed from, and stating
that the appellant appeals from the same, or from a specified part thereof.
Where a party to the special proceeding in the court below appeared in per
son, the notice of appeal must be personally served upon him ; where he
appeared by an attorney, it must be served personally, either upon him or
upon his attorney. Where a party, who was duly cited, did not appear in
the surrogate's court, notice of appeal must be served upon him personally,
if he can, with due diligence, be found within the county ; otherwise it may
be served by depositing it, indorsed with a direction to the party, with the
surrogate, or the clerk of the surrogate's court. Where a person to be served
cannot, with due diligence, be found, to make personal service upon him,
as prescribed in this section, the surrogate, or a justice of the supreme
court, may, by order, prescribe such a mode of service as he thinks proper ;
and service in that mode has the same effect as personal service.
§ 2575. Certain provisions of chapter 12 made applicable. The pro
visions of the following sections of this act, to wit : sections 1295, 1297,
1298, 1299, 1303 and 1305 to 1309, both inclusive, apply to an appeal taken
as prescribed in this article.
§ 2576. Appeal may be on the law or the facts ; case to be made,
etc. The appeal may be taken upon questions of law, or upon the facts, or
upon both. If it is taken from a decree rendered upon the trial, by the sur
rogate, of an issue of fact, it must be heard upon a case, to be made and
settled by the surrogate, as prescribed by law, for the making and settling
of a case upon an appeal in an actiion. [Am'd in effect by Ch. 40 of 1881.
See post, p. 733.]
§ 2577. Security to perfect appeal. To render a notice of appeal
effectual for any purpose, except in a case specified in the next section, or
where it is specially prescribed by law, that security is not necessary to
perfect the appeal, the appellant must give a written undertaking, with at
least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs and
damages which may be awarded against him upon the appeal, not exceeding
two hundred and fifty dollars.
§ 2578. Id ; where decree is for money or delivery of property, etc.
Notice of appeal by an executor, administrator, testamentary trustee, guard
ian, or other person appointed by the surrogate's court, from a decree, direct
ing him to pay or distribute money, or to deposit money in a bank or trust
company, or to deliver property; or by an executor or administrator
from an order granting leave to issue an execution against him, as pre
scribed in section 1825 of this act ; does not stay the execution of the decree ap
pealed from, unless the appellant, gives an undertaking, with at least, two
.sureties, in a sum therein specified, to the effect that if the decree or order,
or any part thereof, is affirmed, or the appeal is dismissed, the appellant will
pay all costs nnd damages, which may be awarded against him upon the
appeal, and will pay the sum so directed to be paid or collected, or, as the
case requires will deposit or distribute the money, or deliver the property,
so directed to be deposited, distributed, or delivered, or the part thereof as
to which the decree or order is affirmed. [Am'd Ch. 399 of 1882. See § 2.\
§ 2579. Security to stay proceedings in case of commitment An
appeal from a decree or an order, directing the commitment of an executor,
administrator, testamentary trustee, guardian, or other person appointed by
the surrogate's court, or an attorney or counsel employed therein, for dis
obedience to a direction of the surrogate, or for neglect of duty; or directing
the commitment of a person refusing to obey a subpoena, or to testify, when
required according to law ; does not stay the execution of the decree or order
appealed from, unless the appellant gives an undertaking, with at least, two
sureties, in a sum therein specified, to the effect that if the decree or order
appealed from, or any part thereof, is affirmed, or the appeal is dismissed,
the appellant will, within twenty days after the affirmance or dismissal,
surrender himself, in obedience to the decree or order, to the custody of the
sheriff of the county, wherein he was directed to be committed. If the
undertaking is broken, it may be prosecuted in the same maimer, and with
the same effect, as an administrator's official bond ; and the proceeds of the
action must be paid or distributed, as directed by the surrogate, to or among
the persons aggrieved, to the extent of the pecuniary injuries sustained by
them ; and the balance, if any, must be paid into the county treasury.
8 2580. Amount of undertaking ; how fixed. The sum specified in an
undertaking, executed as prescribed in either of the last two sections, must,
where the appeal is taken from a decree directing the payment, depositing,
or distribution of money, be not less than twice the sum directed to be paid,
deposited or distributed. Where the appeal is taken from an order grant
ing leave to issue an execution, it must be not less than twice the sum, to
collect which the execution may issue. In every other case, it must be fixed
by the surrogate, or by a judge of the appellate court, who may require
proof, by affidavit, of the value of any property, or of such other facts as he
deems proper. The respondent may apply to the appellate court, upon
notice, for an order requiring the appellant to increase the sum so fixed.
If such an order is granted, and the appellant makes default in giving the
new undertaking, the appeal may be dismissed or the stay dissolved, as the
case requires.
§ 2581. Requisites ofundertaking. An undertaking, given as prescribed
in the last four sections, must be to the people of the State ; must contain the
name and residence of each of the sureties thereto ; must be approved by
the surrogate or a judge or the appellate court; and must be filed in the
surrogate s office. Except as otherwise specially prescribed, the filing of a
proper undertaking, and service of the notice of appeal, perfect the appeal.
The surrogate may, at any time in his discretion, make an order authorizing
any person aggrieved to bring an action upon the undertaking, in his own
name, or in the name of the people. Where it is brought in the name of the
people, the damages collected must be paid over to the surrogate, and dis
tributed by him as justice requires.
§ 2582. Decree for probate, etc. ; how far suspended by appeal An
appeal from a decree of a surrogate, admitting a will to probate, or grant
ing letters testamentary, or letters of administration, does not stay the issu
ing of letters, where, in the opinion of the surrogate, manifested by an order,
the preservation of the estate requires that the letters should issue. Letters
so issued confer upon the person named therein all the powers and authority,
and subject him to all the duties and liabilities of an executor or adminis
trator in an ordinary case, except that they do not confer power to Bell real
property by virtue of a provision in the will, or to pay or to satisfy a legacy, or
distribute the unbequeathed property of the decedent, until after the final
determination of the appeal ; and in ca*e letters shall have been issued be/ore
such appeal the executor or administrator, on a like order of the surrogate, may
exercise the powers and authority, subject to the duties, liabilities and exceptions
above provided. [Am'd Ch. 535 of 1881.]
§ 2583. Decree revoking probate, etc., not stayed. An appeal from a
decree revoking the probate of a will, or revoking letters testamentary, letters
of administration, or letters of guardianship; or from a decree or an order,
suspending an executor, administrator, or guardian, or removing or suspend
ing a testamentary trustee, or a freeholder, appointed to execute a decree,
as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter, or appointing a temporary admin
istrator, or an appraiser of personal property, does not stay the execution of
the decree or order appealed from.
§ 2584. Perfected appeal stays proceedings in other cases. Except
as otherwise expressly prescribed in this article, a perfected appeal has the
effect, as a stay of the proceedings to enforce the decree or order appealed
from, prescribed in section 1S10 of this act, with respect to a perfected
appeal from a judgment.
§ 2585. Appeal, where heard, proceedings thereupon. In the supreme
court, an appeal from a decree or an order of a surrogate's court must be
heard, the judgment, or an order made thereupon, must be entered, and the
papers must be filed, in the same manner, and the effect of the judgment,
with respect to the proceedings in the surrogate's court, is the same, as
where an appeal is taken to the supreme court, from a final judgment or an
order of an inferior court, as prescribed in title third of chapter twelfth of
this act.
§ 2586. Power of appellate court ; further testimony. Where an
appeal is taken upon the facts, the appellate court has the same power to
decide the questions of fact, which the surrogate had ; and it may, in its
discretion, receive further testimony or documentary evidence, and appoint
a referee.
§ 2587. Judgment or order upon appeal The appellate court may
reverse, affirm, or modify the decree or order appealed from, and each inter
mediate order, specified in the notice of appeal, which it is authorized by
law to review, and as to any or all of the parties ; and it may, if necessary or
proper, grant a new trial or hearing. The decree or order appealed from
may be enforced, or restitution may be awarded, as the case requires, as
prescribed in title first of chapter twelfth of this act, with respect to an
appeal from a judgment.
§ 2588. Award of jury trial upon reversal in probate cases. Where
the reversal or modification of a decree by the appellate court is founded
upon a question of fact, the appellate court mu-<t, if the appeal was taken
from a decree made upon a petition to admit a will to probate, or to revoke
the probate of a will, make an order, directing the trial, by a jury, of the
material questions of fact, arising upon the issues between the parties.
Such an order must state, distinctly and plainly, the questions of fact to be
tried ; and must direct the trial to take place, either in a circuit court, speci
fied in the order ; or in the county court of the county of the surrogate ; or,
in the city and county of New York, in the court of common pleas. After
the trial, a new trial may be granted, as prescribed in section 2548 of this
act.
§ 2589. Costs of appeal. The appellate court may award to the success
ful party the costs of the appeal ; or it may direct that they abide the event
of a new trial, or of the subsequent proceedings in the surrogate's court. In
either case, the costs may be made payable out of the estate or fund, or per
sonally by the unsuccessful party, as directed by the appellate court ; or, if
such a direction is not given, as directed by the surrogate.
ARTICLE FIFTH.
Provisions Relating Generally to Letters ; and Generally to Executors, Admin
istrators, Guardians, and Testamentary Trustees.
Official oaths of executors, etc.
Deposit of securities to reduce penalty of bond.
Sureties liable for money, etc., received in another capacity.
When new bond or new sureties may be required.
Id. ; how principal may be required to give a new bond, etc.
Decree revoking letters for failure to give new bond.
Sureties may apply to be released, as to future breaches.
Release of old sureties on the giving of new.
i
Surrogate may direct as to custody, where co-executors, etc., disagree.
Effect and contents of decree revoking letters.
Tfoa last section qualified.
Successor may be appointed, and may compel accounting, etc.
Accounting by executor, etc., of deceased executor.
When bond may be prosecuted.
Successor may prosecute official bond.
Action on official bond when no successor appointed.
Application of this article to executors, etc., heretofore appointed.

§ 2590. Requisites of letters. Letters testamentary, letters of admin
istration, and letters of guardianship must be in the name of the people of
the State. Where they are granted by a surrogate, or by an officer or per
son appointed by the board of supervisors, temporarily acting as surrogate,
they must be tested in the name of the officer granting them, signed by
him, or by the clerk of the surrogate's court, and sealed with the seal of the
surrogate's court. Where they are issued out of another court, they must
be tested in the name of the judge holding the court, signed by the clerk
thereof, and sealed with its seal.
§ 2591. Their effect. Subject to the provisions of the next section, regu
lating the priority among different letters, letters testamentary, letters of
administration, and letters of guardianship, granted by a court or officer,
having jurisdiction to grant them, as prescribed in this chapter, are conclu
sive evidence of the authority of the persons to whom they are granted,
until the decree granting them is reversed upon appeal, or the letters are
revoked, as prescribed in this chapter.
§ 2592. Priority among different letters. The person or persons, to
whom letters testamentary, or letters of administration are first issued, from
a surrogate's court having jurisdiction to issue them, as prescribed in article
first of title first of this chapter, have sole and exclusive authority, as execu
tors or administrators, pursuant to the letters, until the letters are revoked,
as prescribed by law ; and they are entitled to demand and recover from
any person, to whom letters upon the same estate are afterwards issued, by
any other surrogate's court, the decedent's property in his hands. But the
acts of a person, to whom letters were afterwards issued, done in good faith,
before notice of the letters first issued, are valid ; and an action or special
proceeding, commenced by him, may be continued by and in the name of
the person or persons to whom the letters were first issued.
§ 2593. Time, how reckoned upon successive letters. Where it is
prescribed by law, that an act, with respect to the estate of a decedent, must
or may be done within a specified time after letters testamentary or letters
of administration are issued, and successive or supplementary letters are
issued upon the same estate, the time so specified must be reckoned from
the issuing of the first letters, except in a case where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law ; or where the first or any subsequent letters are revoked,
as prescribed in section 2684 of this act, or by reason of the want of power
in the surrogate's court to issue the same, for any cause.
§ 2594. Official oaths of executors, etc. The official oath or affirma
tion of an executor, administrator, or guardian, to the effect that he will
well, faithfully, and honestly discharge the duties of his office, describing
it, must be filed with the surrogate, before letters are issued to him. The
oath may be taken before any officer, within or without the State, who is
authorized to take an affidavit, to be used in the supreme court. Where it
is taken without the State, it must be certified as required by law, with
respect to an affidavit to be used in the supreme court.
§ 2595. Deposit of securities to reduce penalty of bond. In a case
where a bond, or new sureties to a bond, may be required by a surrogate
from an executor, administrator, or other trustee, if the val*ie of the estate
or fund is so great, that the surrogate deems it inexpedient to require
security in the full amount prescribed by law, he may direct that any securi
ties for the payment of money, belonging to the estate or fund, be deposited
with him, to be delivered to the county treasurer, or be deposited subject to
the order of the trustee, countersigned by the surrogate, with a trust com
pany duly authorized by law to receive the same. After such a deposit has
been made, the surrogate may fix the amount of the bond, with respect to
the value of the remainder only of the estate or fund. A security thus
deposited shall not be withdrawn from the custody of the county treasurer
or trust company, and no person other than the county treasurer or the
proper officer of the trust company, shall receive or collect any of the prin
cipal or interest secured thereby, without the special order of the surrogate,
him, or upon proof that the estate or fund has been so reduced, by pay
ments or otherwise, that the penalty of the bond originally given, will be
sufficient in amount, to satisfy the provisions of law relating to the penalty
thereof, if the security so withdrawn is also reckoned in the estate or fund.
§ 2596. Sureties liable for money, etc., received in another capacity.
A person to whom letters are issued, is liable for money or other personal
property of the estate, which was in his hands, or under his control, when
his letters were issued ; in whatever capacity it was received by him, or
came under his control. Where it was received by him, or came under his
control, by virtue of letters previously issued to him, in the same or another
capacity, an action to recover the money, or damages for failure to deliver
the property, may be maintained upon both official bonds ; but, as between
the sureties upon the official bond given upon the prior letters, and those
upon the official bond given upon the subsequent letters, the latter are liable
over to the former.
§ 2597. When new bond or new sureties may be required. Any
person, interested in the estate or fund, may present to the surrogate's court
a written petition, duly verified, setting forth that a surety in a bond, taken
as prescribed in this chapter, is insufficient, or has removed, or is about to
remove, from the State, or that the bond is inadequate in amount ; and pray
ing that the principal in the bond may be required to give a new bond, in a
larger penalty, or new or additional sureties, as the case requires ; or, in
default thereof, that he may be removed from his office, and that letters
issued to him may be revoked. Where the bond so taken is that of a guard
ian, the petition may also be presented by any relative of the infant. When
the bond is that of an executor or administrator, the petition may also be
presented by any creditor of the decedent. If it appears to the surrogate,
that, there is reason to believe that the allegations of the petition are true,
he must cite the principal in the bond to show cause, why the prayer of the
petition should not be granted.
§ 2598. Id. ; how principal may be required to give a new bond,
etc. Upon the return of a citation, issued as prescribed in the last section,
the surrogate must hear the allegations and proofs of the parties ; and if the
objections, or any of them, are found to be valid, he must make an order,
requiring the principal in the bond to give new or additional sureties, or a
new bond in a larger penalty, as the case requires, within such a reasonable
time, not exceeding five days, as the surrogate fixes ; and directing that, in
default thereof, his letters be revoked.
§ 2599. Decree revoking letters for failure to give new bond. If a
bond with new or additional sureties, or, in a larger penalty, is approved and
filed in the surrogate's office, as required by such an order, the surrogate
must make a decree, dismissing the proceedings, upon such terms, as to costs
as justice requires; otherwise he must make a decree, removing the delin
quent from office, and revoking the letters issued to him.
§ 2600. Sureties may apply to be released, as to future breaches.
Any or all of the sureties in a bond, taken as prescribed in this chapter,
may present a petition to the surrogate's court, praying to be released from
responsibility, on account of any future breach of the condition of the bond ;
and that the . principal in the bond may be cited to show cause, why he
should not give new sureties. The surrogate must thereupon issue a citation
accordingly.
§ 2601. Release of old sureties on the giving of new. Upon the
return of a citation, issued as prescribed in the last section, if the principal
in the bond files in the surrogate's office a bond in the usual form, with new
sureties to the satisfaction of the surrogate, then or within such a reasonable
time, not exceeding five days, as the surrogate fixes, the surrogate must
make a decree, releasing the petitioner from liability upon the bond for any
subsequent act or default of the principal ; otherwise he must make a decree,
revoking the delinquent's letters.
§ 2602. Surrogate may direct as to custody, where co-executors,
etc., disagree. Where two or more co-executors or co-administrators disa
gree, respecting the custody of money or other property of the estate ; or
two or more testamentary trustees or guardians of the property disagree,
respecting the custody of money or other property, belonging to a fund or
an estate which is committed to their joint charge ; the surrogate may, upon
the application of either of them, or of a creditor or person interested in the
estate, and proof, by affidavit, of the facts, make an order, requiring them
to show cause, why the surrogate should not give directions in the premises.
Upon the return of" the order, the surrogate may, in his direction, make an
order, directing that any property of the estate or fund be deposited in a
safe place, in the joint custody of the executors, administrators, guardians,
or testamentary trustees, as the case requires, or subject to their joint order ;
or that the money of the estate be deposited in a specified safe bank or trust
company, to their joint credit, and to be drawn out upon their joint order.
punished as a contempt of the
court.
§ 2603. Effect and contents of decree revoking letters. Upon the
entry of a decree, made as prescribed in this chapter revoking letters, issued
by a surrogate's court to an executor, administrator, or guardian, his powers
cease. The decree may, in the discretion of the surrogate, require him to
account for all money and other property received by him ; and to pay and
deliver over all money and other property in his hands into the surrogate's
court, or to his successor in office, or to such other person as is authorized by
law to receive the same ; or it may be made without prejudice to an action
or special proceeding for that purpose, then pending, or thereafter to be
brought. The revocation does not affect the validity of any act, within the
powers conferred by law upon the executor or administrator, or guardian,
done by him before the service of the citation, where the other party acted
in good faith ; or done after the service of the citation, and before entry of
the decree, where his powers with respect thereto were not suspended by
Bervice of the citation, or where the surrogate, in a case prescribed by law,
permitted him to do the same, notwithstanding the pendency of the special
proceeding against him ; and he is not liable for such an act done by him
in good faith.
§ 2604. The last section qualified. The last section does not affect the
liability of a person, to whom money or other property has been paid or
delivered, as husband, wife, next of kin, or legatee, to respond to the person
lawfully entitled thereto, where letters are revoked, because a supposed
decedent is living ; or because a will is discovered, after administration has
been granted in a case of supposed intestacy, or revoking a prior will upon
which letters were granted.
§ 2605. Successor may be appointed, and may compel accounting,
etc. Where letters have been revoked by a decree of the surrogate's court,
that court has, except in a case where it is otherwise specially prescribed by
law, the same power to appoint a successor to the person whose powers
have ceased, as if the letters had not been issued. The successor may com
plete the execution of the trust committed to his predecessor ; he may con
tinue, in his own name, a civil action, or special proceeding, pending in favor
of his predecessor ; and he may enforce a judgment, order, or decree, in
favor of the latter. The surrogate's court has the same jurisdiction, upon
the petition of the successor, or of a remaining executor, administrator,
guardian or trustee, to compel the person whose letters have been revoked,
to account for, or deliver over money or other property, and to settle his
account, which it would have upon the petition of a creditor or person inter
ested in the estate, if the term of office, conferred by the letters, had expired
by its own limitation.
§ 2606. Accounting by executor, etc., of deceased executor. Where
an executor, administrator, guardian, or testamentary trustee dies, the
surrogate's court has the same jurisdiction, upon the petition of his succes
sor, or of a surviving executor, administrator, or guardian, or of a creditor,
or person interested in the estate, or of the guardian's ward, to compel the
executor or administrator of the decedent to account for and deliver over
any of the trust property which has come to his possession, or is under his
control, which it would have as against the decedent, if his letters had been
revoked.
§ 2607. When bond may be prosecuted. Where an execution, issued
upon a surrogate's decree, against the property of an executor, administra
tor, testamentary trustee, or guardian, has been returned wholly or partly
unsatisfied, ■ an action, to recover the sum remaining uncollected, may be
maintained upon his official bond, by and in the name of the person in
whose favor the decree was made. If the principal debtor is a resident
of the State, the execution must have been issued to the county where he
resides.
§ 2608. Successor may prosecute official bond. Where letters have
been revoked by a decree of the surrogate's court, the successor of the
executor, administrator, or guardian, whose letters are so revoked, may
maintain an action upon his predecessor's official bond, in which he may
recover any money, or the full value of any other property, received by the
principal in the bond, and not duly administered by him ; and to the full
extent of any injury, sustained by the estate of the decedent or of the infant,
as the case may be, by any act or omission of the principal. The money,
recovered in such an action, is regarded as part of the estate in the hands
of the plaintifff, and must be distributed or otherwise disposed of accord
ingly ; except that a recovery for an act or omission, respecting a right of
action, or other property, appropriated by law for the benefit of the husband,
wife, family, or next of kin of a decedent, or disposed of by a will for the
benefit of any person, is for the benefit of the person or persons so entitled
thereto.
§ 2609. Action on official bond, when no successor appointed.
Where the letters of an executor or administrator have been so revoked, and
no successor is appointed, any person aggrieved may, upon obtaining an
order from the surrogate, granting him leave so to do, maintain an action
upon the official bond of the executor or administrator, in behalf of himself
and all others interested ; in which the plaintifff may recover any money, or
the full value of any other property, received by the principal in the bond,
and not duly administered by him, and to the full extent of any injury, sus
tained by the estate of the decedent, by any act or omission of the principal.
The money recovered in such an action must be paid, by the sheriff or other
officer who collects it, into the surrogate's court; and the surrogate must
distribute it to the creditors or other persons entitled thereto. The proceed
ings for such a distribution are the same as prescribed in title fifth of this
chapter, for the distribution of the proceeds of a sale of real property.
§ 2610. Application of this article to executors, etc., heretofore
appointed The provisions of this article apply to an executor, adminis
trator, or guardian, to whom letters have been issued, and to a testamentary
trustee whose trust has been created, before this chapter takes effect ; except
that it does not affect, in any manner, the liability of the sureties in a bond,
executed before this chapter takes effect.
Probate of a will and grant of letters thereupon.
Revocation of probate.
Probate of heirship.
Grant of letters of administration.
Temporary administration.
Revocation of letters testamentary and letters of administration.
Foreign wills ; ancillary letters.
§ 2611. What -wills may be proved. A will of real or personal prop
erty, executed as prescribed by the laws of the State, or a will of personal
property, executed without the State, and within the United States, the
Dominion of Canada, or the Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, as pre
scribed by the laws of the State or country where it is or was executed, or a
will of personal property, executed by a person not a resident of the State,
according to the laws of the testator's residence, may be proved as pre
scribed in this article.
§ 2612. Change of residence not to affect validity, etc. The right to
have a will admitted to probate, the validity of the execution thereof, or the
.validity or construction of any provision contained therein, is not affected
by a change of the "testator's residence made since the execution of the will.
§ 2613. Application of last two sections. The last two sections apply
only to a will executed by a person, dying after the eleventh day of April,
in the year 1876; and they do not invalidate a will, executed before that
date, which would have been valid but for the enactment of those sections,
except where such a will is revoked or altered by a will, which they render
valid, or capable of being proved as prescribed in this article.
§ 2614. Who may propound will. A person designate 1 in a will as
executor, devisee, or legatee, or any other person interested in the estate, or
a creditor of the decedent, may present, to the surrogate's court having
jurisdiction, a written petition, duly verified, describing the will, setting
forth the facts, upon which the jurisdiction of the court to grant probate
thereof depends, and praying that the will may be proved, and that the
persons, specified in the next section, may be cited to attend the probate
thereof. Upon the presentation of such a petition, the surrogate must issue
a citation accordingly.
§ 2615. Who to be cited thereupon. The following persons must be
cited, upon a petition, presented as prescribed in the last section :
1. If the will relates exclusively to real property, the husband, if any,
and all the heirs of the testator.
2. If the will relates exclusively to personal property, the husband or wife,
if any, and all the next of kin of the testator.
3. if the will relates to both real and personal property, the husband or
wife, if any, and all the heirs, and all the next of kin of the testator.
§ 2616. Contents of citation. The citation must set forth the name of
the decedent, and of the person by whom the will is propounded ; and it
must state whether the will relates, or purports to relate, exclusively to real
property, or personal property, or to both. Where the will propounded was
nuncupative, that fact must be stated in the citation. Where the surrogate
is unable to ascertain to his satisfaction, whether decedent left, surviving
him, any person, who would be entitled to the property affected by the will,
if the decedent had died intestate, the citation must be directed, where the
will relates to real property, to the Attorney-General ; where it relates to
personal property, to the public administrator, who would have been entitled
to administration, if the decedent had died intestate.
§ 2617. Persons not cited may appear. Any person, although not
cited, who is named as a devisee or legatee, in the will propounded, or as
executor, trustee, devisee, or legatee, in any other paper, purporting to be
a will of the decedent, or who is otherwise interested in sustaining or
defeating the will, may appear, and, at his election, support or oppose the
application. A person so appearing becomes a party to the special proceed
ing. But this section does not affect a right or interest of such a person,
unless he so becomes a party.
§ 2618. Witnesses to be examined ; proof required Upon the return
of the citation, the surrogate must cause the witnesses to be examined before
him. The proofs must be reduced to writing. Before a written will is
admitted to probate, two, at least, of the subscribing witnesses must be
produced and examined, if so many are within the State, and competent
and able to testify. Before a nuncupative will is admitted to probate, its
execution and the tenor thereof must be proved by at least two witnesses.
Any party who contests the probate of a will, may, by a notice filed with
the surrogate at any time before the proofs are closed, require the examinar
tion of all the subscribing witnesses to a written will, or of any other witness,
whose testimony the surrogate is satisfied may be material ; in which case,
all such witnesses, who are within the State, and competent and able to tes
tify, must be so examined.
§ 2619. Absent, etc., witnesses to be accounted for. The death,
absence from the State, lunacy, or other incompetency of a witness, required
to be examined as prescribed in this or the last section, or proof that such wit
ness cannot, after due diligence, be found within the State or elsewhere, must be
shown by affidavit or other competent evidence, to the satisfaction of the
surrogate, before dispensing with his testimony. Where a witness, being
within the State, is disabled from attending by reason of age, sickness or
infirmity, his disability must be shown in like manner; and in that case,
the testimony of the witness, where it is required, and he is able to testify,
must be taken in the manner prescribed by law, and produced before the
surrogate, as part of the proofs. |Am'd Ch. 399 op 188z. See § 2.J
$ 2620. Proof of handwriting. If all the subscribing witnesses to a
\mtten will are, or if a subscribing witness, whose testimony is required, is,
dead, or incompetent, by reason of lunacy or otherwise, to testify, or unable
to testify ; or if such a subscribing witness is absent from the State, and the
surrogate is satisfied that his testimony cannot, with due diligence, be
obtained by a commission \ or if such a subscribing witness has forgotten
the occurrence, or testifies against the execution of the will ; the will may
nevertheless be established upon proof of the handwriting of the testator,
and of the subscribing witnesses, and also of such other circumstances, as
would be sufficient to prove the will upon the trial of an action. Where a
written will is proved, as prescribed in this section, it must be filed and
remain in the surrogate's office.
§ 2*321. Proof of lost or destroyed will. A lost or destroyed will can
be admitted to probate in a surrogate's court; but only in a case, where a
judgment establishing the will could be rendered by the supreme court, as
prescribed in section 1865 of this act.
§ 2622. Probate not allowed unless surrogate satisfied etc. Before
admitting a will to probate, the surrogate must inquire particularly into all
the facts and circumstances, and must be satisfied with the genuineness of
the will, and the validity of its execution. Before admitting a written will
to probate, the surrogate may, in his discretion, require proof of the circum
stances attending the execution, the delivery and the possession thereof, or
any of them, to be made by the affidavit, or the testimony, at the hearing,
of the person who received the will from the testator, if he can be produced,
and, also, of the person presenting it for probate.
§ 2023. Will ; when sufficiently proved If it appears to the surrogate
that the will was duly executed ; and that the testator, at the time of exe
cuting it, was in all respects competent to make a will and not under
restraint ; it must be admitted to probate as a will valid to pass real prop
erty, or personal property, or both, as the surrogate determines, and the
petition and citation require, and must be recorded accordingly. The decree
admitting it to probate must state whether the probate was or was not
contested.
§ 2624. Validity and construction of testamentary provisions. But
if a party expressly puts in issue, before the surrogate, the validity, con
struction, or effect of any disposition of personal property, contained in the
will of a resident of the State, executed within the State, the surrogate
must determine the question, upon rendering a decree; unless the decree
refuses to admit the will to probate, by reason of a failure to prove any of
the matters specified in the last section.
§ 2625. Surrogate's decision on probate. Where the surrogate decides
against the sufficiency of the proof, or against the validity of a will, or upon
the construction, validity, or legal effect of any provision thereof, he must
make a decree accordingly ; and, if required by either party, he must enter
in the minutes the grounds of his decision.
§ 2626. Probate ; how far conclusive as to personalty. A decree,
admitting to probate a will of personal property made as prescribed in this
article, is conclusive, as an adjudication, upon all the questions determined
by the surrogate pursuant to this article, until it is reversed upon appeal, or
revoked by the surrogate; except that a determination, made under section
2624 of this act, is conclusive only upon the petitioner and each party who was
dulv cited, or appeared; anil rtery person claiming from, through, or under
either of them. [Am'd Ch. 399 op 1882. See § 2.J
§ 2627. Id. ; as to realty. A decree, admitting to probate a will of real
property, made as prescribed in this article, establishes, presumptively only,
all the matters determined by the surrogate, pursuant to this article, as
agaiust a party who was duly cited, or a person claiming from, through, or
under him ; or upon the trial of an action, or the hearing of a special pro
ceeding, in which a controversy arises concerning the will, or where the
decree is produced in evidence, in favor of or against a person, or in a case
specified in this section, the testimony taken in the special proceeding,
wherein it was made, may be read in evidence, with the same force and
effect as if it was taken upon the trial of the action, or the hearing of the
special proceeding, wherein the decree is so produced. [Am'd Ch. 535 op
1881.]
§ 2628. When purchaser from heir protected, notwithstanding a
devise. The title of a purchaser in good faith, and for a valuable considera
tion, from the heir of a person who died seized of real property, shall not be
affected by a devise of the property made by the latter, unless within four
years after the testator's death, the will devising the same is either admit
ted to probate and recorded as a will of real property, in the office of the
surrogate having jurisdiction, or established by the final judgment of a court
of competent jurisdiction of the State, in an action brought for that purpose.
But if, at the time of the testator's death, the devisee is either within the
age of twenty-one years, or insane, or imprisoned on a criminal charge, or
in execution upon conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for
life ; or without the State ; or, if the will was concealed by one or more of
the heirs of the testator, the limitation created by this section does not
begin until after the expiration of one year from the removal of such a dis
ability, or the delivery of the will to the devisee or his representative, or to
the proper surrogate.
§ 2629. Will certified, or record thereof; may be read in evidence.
The surrogate must cause to be endorsed upon, or annexed to the original
will admitted to probate, or the exemplified copy, or statement of the tenor
of a will, which was admitted without production of an original written will,
a certificate, under his hand, or the hand of the clerk of his court, and his
seal of office, stating that it has, upon due proof, been admitted to probate
as a will valid to pass real or personal property, or both, as the case may be.
The will, or the copy or statement, so authenticated, the record thereof, or
an exemplified copy of the record, may be read in evidence, as proof of the
original will, or of the contents or tenor thereof, without further evidence,
and with the effect specified in the last three sections. [Am'd 1882.]
§ 2630. Recording wills proved elsewhere within the State. A
transcript of a will of real property, proved and recorded in any court of the
State, of competent jurisdiction, and of all the notices, process, and proofs
relating to the same, must, when duly exemplified, be recorded upon the
request of any person interested therein, in the surrogate's court of any
county, in which real property of the testator is situated.
§ 2631. Records of certain wills heretofore proved ; how far evi
dence. The exemplification of the record of a will, proved before the judge
of the former court of probates, and recorded in his office before the first
day of January, in the year 1785, certified under the seal of the officer hav
ing custody of the record, must be admitted in evidence in any case, after it
has been made to appear that diligent and fruitless search has been made
for the original will.
§ 2632. An exemplified copy of the last will and testament of any deceased
person, which has been admitted to probate, whether as a will of real or personal
property, or of both, and recorded in the office of the surrogate in any county of
this state, before the first day of January, in the year one thousand eight hundred
and Jbrty, shall be admitted in evidence in any of the courts of this state, withotd
the proofs and examinations taken on the probate thereof, and whether such proofs
shall have been recorded or not, with like effect as if the original of such will had
been produced and proven in such court. And the recording of such will shah be
evidence that the same was duly admitted to probate. The exemplification of the
record of a will which has before the first day of January, in the year one thou
sand eight hundred and forty, been proved before the surrogate or judge of pro
bate, or other officer exercising the like jurisdiction of another state must, when cer
tified by the officer hating by law, where the certificate was made, custody of the
record, be admitted in evidence as if the original will was produced and proved.
[Am'd Ch. 705 of 1881.]
§ 2633. Id. ; as to wills of real property. A will of real property, which
has been, at any time, either before or after this chapter takes effect, duly
proved in the supreme court, or the court of chancery, or before a surrogate
of the state with the certificate of proof thereof annexed thereto, or indorsed
thereon or an exemplified copy thereof, may be recorded in the office of the
clerk or the register, as the case requires, of any county in the state, in
the same manner as a deed of real property. Where the will relates toreal property, the executor or administrator with tho will annexed, must
cause the same, or an exemplified copy thereof, to be so recorded in each county
where real property of the testator is situated, within twenty days after
letters are issued to him. An exemplification of the record of such a will,
from any surrogate's or other office where the same has been so recorded, either
before or after this chapter takes effect, may be, in like manner, recorded
in the office of the clerk or register of any county.
Such record or ex
emplification, or an exemplification of the record thereof, must be received
in evidence, as if the original will was produced and proved. [Am'd Ch,
535 of 1881, and Ch. 399 of 1882. See § 2.]
§ 2634. Index and fees. Upon recording a will or exemplification, as
prescribed in the last section, the clerk or registrar must index it in the
same book and substantially in the same manner, as if it was a deed
recorded in his office, and he is entitled to receive the same fees therefore, as
for recording a deed. An executor, or administrator, with the will annexed,
who causes such a record to be made, must be allowed, in his account, the
fees paid by him therefore.
§ 2635. Wills to be returned after probata Except where special pro
vision is otherwise made by law, a written will, after it has been proved
and recorded, must be retained by the surrogate, until the expiration of one
year after it has been recorded, and, if a petition for the revocation of pro
bate thereof is then filed, until a decree is made thereupon. It must then
be returned, upon demand, to the person who delivered it, unless he is dead,
or a lunatic, or has removed from the State ; in which case, it may, in the
discretion of the surrogate, be delivered to any person named therein as
devisee, or to an heir or assignee of a devisee ; or, if it relates only to per
sonal property, to the executor, or administrator with the will annexed, or
to a legatee.
§ 2636. When letters testamentary may be issued Where a will,
which is admitted to probate, names one or more persons to be executor or
executors thereof, upon a contingency, the surrogate must inquire into the
fact, and, if the contingency hau happened, that fact must be recited in the
decree. Immediately after a will has been admitted to probate, the person
or persons named therein as executors, who are competent by law to serve,
and who appear and qualify, are entitled to letters testamentarv thereupon ;
unless before the letters are granted, a creditor of the decedent, or a person
interested in the estate, files an affidavit, specifying his demand, or how he
is interested, and either setting forth specifically one or more legal objec
tions to granting the letters to one or more of the executors, or stating that
he is advised and believes that there are such objections, and that he intends
to file a specific statement of the same. Where such an affidavit is filed,
the surrogate must stay the granting of letters, at least thirty days, or until
the matter is sooner disposed of. A specification or statement of an objec
tion, made as prescribed in this section, must be verified by the oath of the
objector, or his attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true.
§ 2637. Surrogate to inquire into objections. The surrogate must
inquire into an objection, filed as prescribed in the last section ; and, for
that purpose, he may receive proof, by affidavit or otherwise, in his discre
tion. If it appears that there is a legal and sufficient objection to any
person, named as executor in the will, letters shall not be issued to him,
except as prescribed in the next section.
§ 2638. Bond ; when required. In either of the following cases, a person
named as executor in a will, may entitle himself to letters testamentary
thereupon, by giving a bond as prescribed by law, although an objection
against him has been established to the satisfaction of the surrogate :
1. Where the objection is, that his circumstances are such, that they do
not afford adequate security to the creditors, or persons interested in the
estate, for the due administration of the estate.
2. Where the objection is that he is not a resident of the State ; and he is
a citizen of the United States.
But a person against whom there is no objection, except that of non-resi
dence, is entitled to letters testamentary, without giving a bond, if he has
an office within the State, for the regular transaction of business in person ;
and the will contains an express provision, to the effect that he may act
without giving security.
§ 2639. Renunciation ; retraction thereof A person, named as execu
tor in a will, may renounce the appointment by an instrument in writing,
signed by him, and acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner
as a deed to be recorded in the county, or attested by one or more witnesses,
and proved to the satisfaction of the surrogate. Such a renunciation may
be retracted by a like instrument, at any time before letters testamentary,
or letters of administration with the will annexed, have been issued to any
other person in his place ; or, after they have been so issued, if they have
been revoked, or the person to whom they were issued has died, or become
a lunatic, and there is no other acting executor or administrator. Where
a restriction is so made, letters testamentary may, in the discretion of the
surrogate, be issued to the person making it. An instrument specified in
this section must be filed and recorded in the surrogate's office.
§ 2640. Selection of an executor under a power. Where the will con
tains a valid power, authorizing the selection, as executor thereof, of a person
not named therein, the selection must be made, by the person appointed for
that purpose, within thirty days after making the decree admitting the will
to probate ; in default whereof, the power of selection is deemed to have
been renounced. Such selection must be made by an instrument in writing,
designating the person selected, signed by the proper person, and acknowl
edged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in
the county, or proved to the satisfaction of the surrogate, and filed in the
surrogate's office. Where the will authorizes the person, 60 to be selected,
to act with the executor or executors named therein, the issuing of letters
must be delayed until the expiration of the period, fixed iu this section for
the exercise of the power of selection and if the selection is so made, for
five days thereafter.
§ 2641. Objection to such a person, how taken, etc. Within five days
lifter a selection is made, as prescribed in the last section, any person may file
an affidavit, verified as prescribed in section 2636 of this act, showing that he
is a creditor of the decedent, or a person interested in the estate, and setting
forth specifically one or more legal objections to granting letters to the person
selected. The proceedings to be taken thereupon are the same, as prescribed
in sections 2637 and 2638 of this act. If letters are not, issued to the person
so selected, the power of selection is deemed to be exhausted.
§ 2642. Executor failing to qualify or renounce, how excluded. If
a person, named as executor in a will, does not qualify or renounce, within *
thirty days after probate thereof ; or if a person, chosen by virtue of a power
in the will, does not qualify or renounce within thirty days after the filing
of the instrument designating him ; or, in either case, if objections are
filed, and the executor does not qualify or renounce, within five days after
they are determined, in his favor, or, in a case specified in section 2638 of
this act, within five days after an objection has been established ; the surro
gate must, upon the application of any other executor, or any creditor or
person interested in the estate, make an order requiring him to qualify
within a time therein specified ; and directing that, in default of so doing,
he be deemed to have renounced his appointment. "Where it appears, by
affidavit, or other written proof, to the satisfaction of the surrogate, that
such an order cannot, with due diligence, be served personally within the
State, upon the person therein named, the surrogate may prescribe the man
ner in which it must be served, which may be by publication. If the per
son, so appointed executor, does not qualify within the time fixed, or within
such further time as the surrogate allows for that purpose, an order must be
made and recorded, reciting the facts, and declaring that he has renounced
his appointment as executor. Such an order may be revoked by the surro
gate in his discretion, and letters testamentary may be issued to the person
so failing to renounce or qualify, upon his application, in a case where he
might have retracted an express renunciation, as prescribed in section 2639
of this act. A nd where any powers to sell, mortgage <rr lease real estate, or any
interest therein, are given to executors as such, or as trustees, or as executors and
trustees, and any of such persons named as executors shall neglect to qualify, then
all sales, mortgages and leases under said pcnoers made by the executors who shall
qualify, shall be equally valid as if the other executors or trustees had joined in
such sale. [Am'd Ch. 401 op 1883.]
§ 2643. Letters of administration with will annexed. If no person is
named as executor in the will, or selected by virtue of a power contained
therein ; or if, at any time, by reason of death, incompetency adjudged by
the surrogate, renunciation in either of the methods prescribed in sections
2639 and 2042 of this act, or revocation of letters, there is no executor, or
administrator with the will annexed, qualified to act ; the surrogate must,
upon the application of a creditor of the decedent, or a person interested in
the estate, and upon such notice to the other creditors and persons interested
in the estate, as the surrogate deems proper, issue letters of administration
with the will annexed, as follows :
1. To one or more of the residuary legatees, who are qualified to act as
administrator!?.
2. If there is no such residuary legatee, or none who will accept, then to
one or more of the principal or specific legatees, so qualified.
3. If there is no such legatee, or none who will accept, then to the hus
band, or wife, or to one or more of the next of kin, or to one or more of the
heirs or devisees, so qualified.
4. If there is no qualified person, entitled under the foregoing subdivivisions, who will accept, then to one or more of the creditors who are so
qualified, except that in the counties of New York and Kings the public admin
istrator shall have preference, after the next of kin, over creditors and all other
persons. [Am'd Ch. 535 of 1881.]
5. If there is no qualified creditor who will accept, then to any proper
person designated by the surrogate.
§ 2644. Id. ; renunciation or exclusion of persons having prior right
But where a person applies for letters of administration with the will an
nexed, as prescribed in the last section, and another person has a right to
the administration, prior to that of the petitioner, the application must be
made by petition, unless a written renunciation of every person having such
a prior right is filed with the surrogate, and the execution thereof is proved
to his satisfaction. The petition must pray that all persons having a prior
right, who have not renounced, be cited to show cause, why administration
should not be granted to the petitioner. The proceedings thereupon are the
same as upon an application for administration upon the estate of an
intestate.
§ 2645. Executor or administrator to qualify. An executor, from
whom a bond is required, as prescribed in this article, or an administrator
with the will annexed, must, before letters are issued to him qualify as
prescribed by law, with respect to an administrator upon the estate of an
intestate ; and the provisions of article fourth of this title, with respect to
the bond to be given by the administrator of an intestate, apply to a bond
given pursuant to this section ; except that, in fixing the penalty thereof,
the surrogate must take into consideration the value of the real property, or
of the proceeds thereof, which may come to the hands of the executor or
administrator, by virtue of any provision contained in the will.
§ 2646. Effect of certain provisions limited This article does not
vary the effect of a decree for probate, made before this chapter takes effect,
as declared in the statutes then in force.

§ 2647. Persons interested may apply to revoke probate. A person
interested in the estate of the decedent may, within the time specified in
the next section, present to the surrogate's court, in which a will of personal
property was proved, a written petition duly verified, containing allegations
against the validity of the will, or the competency of the proof thereof; and
praying that the probate thereof may be revoked, and that the persons,
enumerated in the next section but one, may be cited to show cause why it
should not be revoked. Upon the presentation of such a petition, the surro
gate must issue a citation accordingly.
§ 2648. When application must be made. A petition must be pre
sented, as prescribed in the last section, within one year after the recording
of the decree admitting the will to probate ; except that, when the person
entitled to present it is then under a disability specified in section 396 of
this act, the time of such disability is not part of the year limited in this
section, unless such person shall have appeared by general or special guardian
or otherwise on said probate. But this section does not affect an application
made pursuant to subdivision sixth of section 2481 of this act. [Am'd Ch.
535 of 1881.]
§ 2649. Citation thereupon. A petition, presented as prescribed in the
last two sections, must pray that the citation may be directed to the execu
tor, or administrator with the will annexed ; to all the devisees and legatees
named in the will ; and to all other persons, who were parties to the special
proceeding in which probate was granted. If a legatee is dead, his executor
or administrator must be cited, if one has been appointed ; if not, such per
sons must be cited as representing him, as the surrogate designates for the
purpose.
§ 2650. Executor, etc., to suspend proceedings. After service upon
him of a citation, issued as prescribed in the last three sections, the executor,
or administrator with the will annexed, must suspend, until a decree is made
upon the petition, all proceedings relating to the estate; except for the re
covery or preservation of property, the collection and payment of debts, and
such other acts as he is expressly allowed to perform, by an order of the
surrogate, made upon notice to the petitioner.
§ 2651. Hearing, Upon the return of the citation, the surrogate must
proceed to hear the allegations and proofs of the parties. The testimony,
taken upon the application for probate, of a witness who is dead, or without
the State, or who, since his testimony was taken, has become a lunatic, or
otherwise incompetent, must be received in evidence.
§ 2652. Decree. If the surrogate decides that the will is not sufficiently
proved to be the last will of the testator, or is, for any reason invalid, he
must make a decree revoking the probate thereof; otherwise he must make
a decree confirming the probate.
§ 2653. Notice of decree of revocation. Where the decree revokes
the probate of a will, as prescribed in this article, the surrogate must cause
notice of the revocation to be immediately published, for three successive
weeks, in a newspaper published in his county.
§ 2654. Heir, etc., may apply to establish heirship. Where a person,
Beized in fee of real property within the State, dies intestate, or without
having devised his real property to specific persons, his heirs, or any of
them may present to the surrogate's court which has acquired jurisdiction
of the estate, or if no surrogate's court has acquired such jurisdiction, then
to the surrogate's court of the county where the real property, or any part
thereof, is situated, a written petition, duly verified ; describing the real
property ; setting forth the facts upon which the jurisdiction of the court
depends ; and the interest or share of the petitioner, and of each other heir
of the decedent, in the real property ; and praying for a decree establishing
the right of inheritance thereto, and that all the heirs of the decedent may
be cited to attend the probate of that right Upon the presentation of such
a petition, the surrogate must issue a citation accordingly.
§ 2655. Citation appearance of persons interested. The citation must
set forth the name of the decedent and of the petitioner ; the interest or
share which the petitioner claims ; and a brief description of the real prop
erty. Any heir of the decedent, who has not been cited, may nevertheless
appear at the hearing ; and thereby make himself a party to the special
proceeding. But this section does not affect a right or interest of such a
person, unless he becomes a party.
§ 2656. What acts to be ascertained ; decree thereupon. Upon the
return of the citation, the surrogate must hear the allegations and proofs of
the parties. If it appears that there is a contest, respecting the heirship of
a party, or respecting the share to which a party is entitled, as an heir of
the decedent, the surrogate must dismiss the proceedings. If there is no
such contest, he must inquire into the facts and circumstances of the case.
The petitioner must establish, by satisfactory evidence, the fact of the
decedent's death ; the place of his residence at the time of his death ; his
intestacy, either generally, or as to the real property in question ; the num
ber of heirs entitled to inherit the property in question ; the name, age, resi
dence, and relationship to the decedent, of each ; and the interest or share
of each in the property. The surrogate, when these facts are established,
must make a decree, describing the property, and declaring that the right
of inheritance thereto has been established to his satisfaction, in accordance
with the facts, which must be recited in the decree.
§ 2657. Decree to be recorded ; effect thereof An exemplified copy
of a decree, made as prescribed in the last section, and of the proofs taken
thereupon, may be recorded in the office of the clerk, or of the register, as
the case requires, of each county in which the real property is situated, as
prescribed by law for recording a deed, and, from the time when the exem
plifications are so recorded, the decree, or the record thereof, is presumptive
evidence of the facts so declared to be established thereby.
§ 2658. Petition to vacate or modify it Any person, other than a
party to a special proceeding, instituted as prescribed in this article, or the
heir, devisee, or assignee of such a party, may, at any time within ten
years after a decree establishing the right of inheritance is made therein,
present to the court a written petition, duly verified, showing that he has a
right, title, or interest in the real property, or a part thereof, which is
injuriously affected by the decree ; stating that the decree is erroneous in
some material particular, specified therein ; and praying that the decree
may be set aside or modified in that particular, and that all the persons,
whose heirship was established by the decree, may be cited to show cause,
why the prayer of the petition should not be granted. If an heir has
since died, or has conveyed the share or interest so established, by a deed
duly recorded in the county, the petition must state that fact; and must
Eray that the persons, who have succeeded to his interest, may be also cited.
fpon the presentation of such a petition, the surrogate must issue a citation
accordingly.
§ 2659. Id. ; when granted. Where a petition is presentee* as pre
scribed in the last section, and it appears, upon the hearing, that, if the
petitioner, or his ancestor, testator, or grantor, had been a party to the
special proceeding, the decree or a part thereof could not have been legally
made, as prescribed in this article, the surrogate must vacate or modify the
decree accordingly. An exemplified copy of the decree or order, so vacat
ing or modifying the original decree, may be recorded in the office of any
clerk or register, where a copy of the original decree was recorded.
ARTICLE FOURTH.
Grant of Letters op Administration.
Section 2660. Who may apply for letters.
26(51. What to be shown upon application.
2662. Citation ; effect of renunciation.
2663. When Attorney-General and public administrator to be cited.
2664. Renunciation ; how made.
• 2665. Persons not cited may appear
2666. Hearing'; decree.
2667. Administrator's bond.
§ 2660. Who may apply for letters. A person entitled, absolutely or
contingently, to administration upon the estate of an intestate, may present
to the surrogate's court, having jurisdiction, a written petition, duly verified,
praying for a decree, awarding letters of administration, either to him or
to such other person or persons, having a prior right, as may be entitled
thereto, or in the alternative, as the petitioner elects ; and, if necessary,
that the persons required to be cited, as prescribed in the next section but
one, may be cited to show cause, why such a decree should not be made.
The petition must set forth the petitioner's title ; the facts upon which the
jurisdiction of the court to grant letters of administration upon the estate
depends ; and the names of the husband or wife, if any, and of the next of
kin of the decedent, as far as they are known to the petitioner, or can be
ascertained by him with due diligence.
§ 2661. What to be shown upon application. A citation shall not
be issued, and a decree shall not be made where a citation is not necessary,
until the petitioner presumptively proves, by affidavit or otherwise, to the
satisfaction of the surrogate, the existence of all the jurisdictional facts, and,
particularly, that the decedent left no will. For the purpose of the inquiry
touching any of these matters, the surrogate may issue a subpoena, requir
ing any person to attend and be examined as a witness.
§ 2662. Citation ; effect of renunciation Every person, being a resi
dent of the State, who has a right to administration, prior or equal to that
of the petitioner, and who has not renounced, must be cited upon a petition
for letters of administration. The surrogate may, in his discretion, issue a
citation to non-residents, or those who have renounced, or to any or all other
persons interested in the estate, whom he thinks proper to cite. Where it
is not necessary to cite any person, a decree, granting to the petitioner let
ters, may be made upon presentation of the petition.
§ 2663. When Attorney-General and public administrator to be
cited. Where the surrogate is unable to ascertain, to his satisfaction,
whether the decedent left, surviving him, any person entitled to succeed to
his estate, a citation must be issued, directed generally to all creditors of,,
and persons interested in, the estate, and also to the Attorney-General, and
the public administrator of the proper county, requiring them to show cause,
why administration should not be granted to the petitioner.
§ 2664. Renunciation ; how made. Any person who has a right to
administration, prior or equal to that of the petitioner, may renounce his
right by a written instrument, acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like
manner as a deed to be recorded in the county, or otherwise proved to the
satisfaction of the surrogate ; which must be filed in the surrogate's office.
§ 2665. Persons not cited may appear. Where a citation is issued, any
creditor of the decedent, or any person interested in the personal estate,
although not cited, may appear and make himself a party to the special pro
ceeding, in like manner and with like effect, as a devisee or legatee, who is
not cited upon an application for probate.
§ 2666. Hearing ; decree. Upon the return of a citation, issued as pre
scribed in this article, the surrogate must make such a decree in the premises,
as justice requires. The decree may award administration to any party to
the special proceeding, who appears to be entitled thereto. The surrogate
may, in his discretion, award administration without a personal examination
of the person to whom it is awarded.
§ 2667. Administrator's bond. A person appointed an administrator
must, before letters are issued to him, besides filing his official oath, execute
to the people of the state, and file with the surrogate, the joint and several
bond of himself and two or more sureties, in a penalty fixed by the surro
gate, not less than twice the value of the personal property of which the
decedent died possessed, and of the probable amount to be recovered by
reason of any right of action granted to an executor or administrator by
special provision of law. The sum to be fixed as the amount of the penalty
must be ascertained by the surrogate, by the examination, upon oath, of the
applicant or any other person, or otherwise, as the surrogate thinks proper.
The bond must be conditioned that the administrator will faithfully dis
charge the trust reposed in him as such, and obey all lawful decrees and
orders of the surrogate's court touching the administration of the estate com
mitted to him. But, where a right of action is granted to an executor or admin
istrator by special provision of law, if it appears to be impracticable to give a bond
sufficient to cover the probable amount to be recovered, the surrogate may in his
discretion accept modified security and issue letters limited to the prosecution of
such action, but restraining the executor or administrator from a compromise of
the action and the enforcement of any judgment recovered therein, until the further
order of the surrogate on additional further satisfactory security. In cases where
all the next of kin to tlie intestate consent thereto, the penalty of the bond required
to be given by him or her shall not etceed twice tlie amount of tfie claims of cred
itors against the estate presented to the surrogate, pursuant to a notice to be pub
lished twice a week for four weeks in the Slule paper, and in two newspapers
published in the city of New York, ami once a week for four weeks in two news
papers published in the county where the intestate usually resided, and in the
county where he died, reciting an intention to apply fur letters under this provision,
and notifying creditors to present their claims to the surrogate on or before a day
to be fixed in such notice, which shall be at least thirty days after the first publica
tion thereof; but no bond so given shall be fur a less sum than five thousand dol
lars ; and such bond may be increased by order of the surrogate for cause shown.
Pending such application, no temporary administrator shall be appointed except
on petition of such next of kin. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881, amd Ch. 398 op 1882.
See § 2.]
§ 2668. Temporary administration ; when allowed. Upon the appli
cation of a creditor, or a person interested in the estate, the surrogate may,
in his discretion, issue to one or more persons, competent and qualified to
serve as executors, letters of temporary administration, in either of the fol
lowing cases :
1. Where delay necessarily occurs in the granting of letters testamentary
or letters of administration, in consequence of a contest arising upon an
application therefore, or for probate of a will ; or in consequence of the
absence from the State of an executor named in the will ; or for any other
cause.
2. Where a person, of whose estate the surrogate would have jurisdiction,
if he was shown to be dead, disappears or is missing, so that, after diligent
search, his abode cannot be ascertained, and under circumstances which
afford reasonable ground to believe either that he is dead, or that he has
become a lunatic, or that he has been secreted, confined, or otherwise unlaw
fully made away with ; and the appointment of a temporary administrator
is necessary for the protection of his property, and the rights of creditors, or
of those who will be interested in the estate, if it is found that he is dead.
§ 2669. Temporary administrator ; how appointed. An appointment
of a temporary administrator, in a case specified in subdivision first of the
last section, must be made by an order. At least ten days' notice of the
application for such an order must be given to each party to the special pro
ceeding, who has appeared, unless the surrogate is satisfied, by proof, that the
safety of the estate requires the notice to be shortened, in which case he may shorten
the time of service to not less than two days. [Am'd Ch. 535 of 1881.]
§ 2670. Id. ; upon estate of absentee, etc. Application for such an
appointment, in a case specified in subdivision second of the last section but
one, must be made by petition, in like manner as where an application is
made for administration, in a case of intestacy ; and the proceedings are
the same as prescribed in article fourth of this title, relating to such last
mentioned application. Such an application for the appointment of a tem
porary administrator may also be made, with like effect, and in like manner,
as if it was made by a creditor, by the county treasurer of the county where
the person, whose estate is in question, last resided ; or, if he was not a
resident of the State, of the county where any of his property, real or per
sonal, is situated.
§ 2671. Id. ; to qualify. A temporary administrator must qualify, ea
prescribed in article fourth of this title, with respect to an administrator in
chief.
§ 2672. General powers, etc., of temporary administrator. A tem
porary administrator, appointed as prescribed in this article, has authority
to take into his possession personal property ; to secure and preserve it ; and
to collect choses in action ; and, for either of these purposes, he may main
tain any action or special proceeding. An action may be maintained against
him, by leave of the surrogate, upon a debt of the decedent, or of the
absentee whom lie represents, in like manner and with like effect as if he
was an administrator in chief. The surrogate may, by an order made upon
at least ten days' notice to all the parties who have appeared in the special
proceeding, authorize the temporary administrator to sell, after appraisal,
such personal property, specifying it, of the decedent, or of the absentee
whom he represents, as it appears to be necessary to sell, for the benefit of
the estate ; or, if it appears that the safety of the estate requires the notice to be
shortened, the surrogate may shorten the notice to not less than two days. The
surrogate may, also, by order, authorize him to pay funeral expenses, or any
expenses of the administration of his trust, or stenographer's or referee's fees on
contest of a will or administration ; and he may also direct the payment of a
legacy or other pecuniary provision under a will or a distributive share or just pro
portionate part thereof, according to section 2719 of this act as though he were an
executor or administrator. [Am'd Ch. 535 of 1881.]
§ 2673. Id. ; as to requiring creditors to present claims. After six
months have elapsed, since letters were issued to a temporary administrator,
appointed upon the estate, of either a decedent or an absentee, he has the
same power, as an administrator in chief, to publish a notice requiring cred
itors of the decedent or absentee, to exhibit their demands to him. The
publication thereof has the same effect, with respect to the temporary admin
istrator, and also an executor or administrator, subsequently appointed upon
the same estate, as if the temporary administrator was the executor or an
administrator in chief, and the person to whom the subsequent letters are
issued was his successor.
§ 2674. Id. ; as to paying debts. After a year has elapsed, since letters
were issued to a temporary administrator, appointed upon the estate, of
either a decedent or an absentee, the surrogate may, upon the application of
the temporary administrator, and upon proof, to his satisfaction, that the
assets exceed the debts, make an order, permitting the applicant to pay the
whole or any part of a debt, due to a creditor of the decedent or absentee;
or, upon the petition of such a creditor, he may issue a citation to the tem
porary administrator, requiring him to show cause why he should not pay
the petitioner's debt. When such a petition is presented, the proceedings
are, in all respects, the same as where a creditor presents a petition, pray
ing for a decree directing an executor or administrator to pay his debt, as
prescribed in article first of title fourth of this chapter.
§ 2675. Id. ; as to real property. "Where a temporary administrator is
appointed, in consequence of a contest respecting a will of real property,
the order appointing him may confer upon him authority to take possession
of real property, in the same or another county, which is affected by the
will, and to receive the rents and profits thereof. The surrogate may, by
an order, confer upon him authority to lease any or all of the real property,
for a term not exceeding one year; or to do any other act with respect
thereto, except to sell it, which is, in the surrogate's opinion, necessary for
the execution of the will, or the preservation or benefit of the real property.
For either of these purposes, he may maintain or defend any action or
special proceeding.
§ 2676. Special powers of temporary administrator of absentee.
A temporary administrator, appointed upon the estate of an absentee, has
all the powers and authority enumerated in the last section, with respect to
the real property of the absentee. His acts, done in pursuance of that
authority, bind the absentee, if he is living, or his heir or devisee, if he is
dead, in the same manner as the acts of an executor or administrator bind
his successor.
§ 2677. Temporary administrator of absentee may provide for
family. Upon proof, satisfactory to the surrogate, that the wife or any
infant child of an absentee, upon whose estate a temporary administrator
has been appointed, is in such circumstances, as to require provision to be
made out of the estate for his or her maintenance, clothing, or education,
the surrogate may make an order, directing the temporary administrator to
make such provision therefore, as the surrogate deems proper, out of any
personal property in his hands, not needed for the payment of debts.
§ 2678. Deposit of money by temporary administrator. A temporary
administrator, appointed as prescribed in this article, must, within ten daya
after any money belonging to the estate comes into his hands, deposit it as
prescribed in this section. Where he was appointed by the surrogate's
court of any county except New York, it must be deposited with a person,
or with a bank, or in a domestic incorporated trust company, designated by the
surrogate ; but a natural person, so designated as depositary, must first file
in the surrogate's office a bond to the surrogate, in a penalty fixed by him,
executed by the depositary and two sureties, and conditioned to render a
faithful account, and pay over all money received by him, upon the direc
tion of any court of competent jurisdiction. Where the temporary adminis
trator was appointed by the surrogate of the county of New York, the
money must be deposited in a domestic incorporated trust company, having
its principal office or place of business in the city of New York, and either
specially approved by the surrogate, or designated, in the general rules of
practice, as a depositary of funds paid into court. [Am'd Ch. 399 op 1883.],
§ 2679. Proceedings where he neglects to deposit If a temporary
administrator neglects to make a deposit, as prescribed in the last section,
within the time therein limited, the surrogate must, upon the application of
a creditor or person interested in the estate, accompanied with satisfactory
proof of the neglect, make an order, directing him to do so forthwith, or to
show cause why a warrant of attachment should not issue against him. In
the county of New York, the order must be made returnable three days after
issuing it; and it must be served upon the temporary administrator, at least
two days before the return day thereof, either personally or by leaving a
copy thereof within the State, at his dwelling place, or his office for the
regular transaction of business in person; or, if it cannot be served in
either of those methods, by serving it in such other manner, as the surro
gate directs. In any other county, it must be made returnable within a
reasonable time, not exceeding fifteen days after issuing it ; and it must be
served, in like manner, at least ten days before the return day thereof.
§ 2680. Money deposited ; how withdrawn. Money deposited by a
temporary administrator, as prescribed in this article, cannot be withdrawn
except upon the order of the surrogate, a certified copy of which must be
presented to the depositary. Such an order may be made upon two days'
notice of the application therefore, given to all the parties to the special pro
ceeding, in which the temporary administrator was appointed, who appeared
therein ; but not otherwise.
$ 2681. Notices required by this article ; how given. A notice
required to be given, as prescribed in this article, to a parly other than the
temporary administrator, must be served upon the attorney of the party to
whom notice is to be given ; or, if he has not appeared by an attorney, upon
the party, in like manner as a notice may be served upon an attorney in a
civil action, brought in the supreme court. But where the attorney or party
to be served does not reside in the surrogate's county ; or where the attorney
for a party has died, and no other appearance for that party has been filed
in the surrogate's office ; the surrogate may, by order, dispense with notice
to that party ; or may require notice to be given to him in any manner which
he thinks proper.
§ 2682. When time to run for or against the estate. Section 2593 of
this act does not affect any proceeding in favor of or against an executor, or
an administrator in chief, where a temporary administrator of the same
estate has been appointed, except as otherwise prescribed in section 2673
and section 2674 of this act.
§ 2683. Application of this chapter to collectors, etc., heretofore
appointed. Each provision of this chapter, imposing a duty or liability
upon a temporary administrator, appointed upon the estate of a decedent,
or his sureties ; or conferring upon the surrogate power or authority with
respect to such a temporary administrator, or his sureties ; applies to a col
lector or special administrator, appointed before this chapter takes effect,
and his sureties; except so far as it is repugnant, to the provisions of law in
force when the collector or special administrator was appointed, or to the
letters issued to him.
§ 2684. Revocation of letters upon proof of will, or revocation of
probate, etc. Where, after letters of administration, on the ground of
intestacy, have been granted, a will is admitted to probate, and letters are
issued thereupon ; or where, after letters have been issued upon a will, the
probate thereof is revoked, or a subsequent will is admitted to probate, and
letters are issued thereupon ; the decree, granting or revoking probate, must
revoke the former letters.
§ 2685. Revocation of letters for disqualification, misconduct, etc.
In either of the following cases, a creditor, or person interested in the
estate of a decedent, may present, to the surrogate's court, from which letters
were issued to an executor or administrator, a written petition, duly verified,
praying for a decree revoking those letters ; and that the executor or admin
istrator may be cited to show cause why a decree should not be made accord
ingly:
1. Where the executor or administrator was, when letters were issued to
him, or has since become, incompetent, or disqualified by law to act as such ;
and the grounds of the objection did not exist, or the objection was not taken
by the petitioner, or a person whom he represents, upon the hearing of the
application for letters.
2. Where, by reason of his having wasted or improperly applied the
money or other assets in his hands, or invested money in securities unauthor
ized by law, or otherwise improvidently managed or injured the property
committed to his charge 'r or by reason of other misconduct in the execution
of his office, or dishonesty, drunkenness, improvidence, or want of under
standing ; he is unfit for the due execution of his office.
3. Where he has willfully refused, or, without good cause, neglected, to
obey any lawful direction of the surrogate, contained in a decree or order ;
or any provision of law, relating to the discharge of his duty.
4. Where the grant of his letters was obtained by a false suggestion of a
material fact.
5. In the case of an executor, where his circumstances are such, that they
do not afford adequate security to the creditors or persons interested, for the
due administration of the estate.
6. In the case of an executor, where he has removed or is about to remove
from the State, and the case is not one where a non-resident executor would
be entitled to letters without giving a bond.
7. In the case of an executor, where, by the terms of the will, his office
was to cease upon a contingency, which has happened.
8. In the case of a temporary administrator, appointed upon the estate of
an absentee, where it is shown that the absentee has returned ; or that he is
Kring, and capable of returning and resuming the management of his
affairs j or that an executor, or administrator in chief has been appointed
upon his estate ; or that a committee of his property has been appointed by
a competent court of the State.
§ 2686. Petition ; citation thereupon. A petition presented as pre
scribed in the last section, must set forth the facts and circumstances, show
ing that the case is one of those therein specified. Upon proof, by affidavit
or oral testimony, satisfactory to the surrogate, of the truth of the allegations
contained in the petition, a citation must be issued according to the prayer
thereof; except that, where the case is within subdivision fifth of the last
section, and the executor has given a bond, as prescribed in article first of
this title, the surrogate may, in his discretion, entertain or decline to enter
tain the application.
^ 2687. Hearing ; decree. Upon the return of a citation, issued as pre
scribed in the last section, if the objections, or any of them, are established
to the surrogate's satisfaction, he must make a decree, revoking the letters
issued to the person complained of. But the surrogate may, in his discretion,
dismiss the proceedings, upon such terms, as to costs, as justice requires, and
may allow the letters to remain unrevoked, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the case is within subdivision third of the last section but one,
if the direction of the surrogate or the provision of law is obeyed, and suit
able amends made to each person injured by the neglect or refusal to obey it.
2. Where the case is within subdivision fourth of that section, if the person
cited is entitled to letters, notwithstanding the false suggestion.
3. Where the case is within subdivision fifth of that section, if the execu
tor gives, within a reasonable time, not exceeding five days, a bond, as pre
scribed in article first of this title.
§ 2688. Decree not to affect testamentary trusts. Where an executor
or an administrator is also a testamentary trustee, a decree revoking his let
ters does not affect his power or authority as testamentary trustee, except in
the case specially prescribed for that purpose, in title sixth of this chapter.
§ 2689. Application by executor, etc., for revocation of letters. An
executor or administrator may, at any time, present to the surrogate's court
a written petition, duly verified, praying that his account may be judicially
settled ; that a decree may thereupon be made, revoking his letters and dis
charging him accordingly ; and that the same persons may be cited to show
cause why such a decree should not be made, who must be cited upon a
petition for a judicial settlement of his account, as prescribed in article
second of title fourth of this chapter. The petition must set forth the facts
upon which the application is founded ; and it must, in all other respects,
conform to a petition praying for a judicial settlement of the account of an
executor or administrator. The surrogate may, in his discretion, entertain
or decline to entertain the application.
§ 2690. Proceedings thereupon. If the surrogate entertains an appli
cation, made as prescribed in the last section, the proceedings thereupon
must be, in all respects, the same, as upon a petition for a judicial settle
ment of the petitioner's account ; except that, upon the hearing, the surro
gate must first determine, whether sufficient reasons exist for granting the
prayer of the petition. If he determines that they exist, he must make an
order accordingly, and allowing the petitioner to account, for the purpose of
being discharged. Upon his fully accounting, and paying over all money
which is found to be due from him to the estate, and delivering over all
books, papers, and other property of the estate in his hands, either into the
surrogate's court, or in such a manner as the surrogate directs, a decree may
be made, revoking the petitioner's letters, and discharging him accordingly.
§ 2691. In what cases letters may be revoked without a citation.
In either of the following cases, the surrogate must make a decree, revoking
letters testamentary or letters ot administration, issued from his court, with
out a petition or the issuing of a citation :
1. Where the person, to whom the letters were issued, is not a resident
of the State, or is absent therefrom ; and, upon being duly cited to account,
neglects to appear upon the return of the citation, without showing a satis
factory excuse therefore ; and the surrogate has not sufficient reason to believe
that such an excuse can be made.
2. Where a citation, issued to such a person, in a case prescribed by law,
cannot be personally served upon him, by reason of his having absconded
or concealed himself.
3. Where, by reason of his default in returning an inventory, such a per
son has remained, for thirty days, committed to jail, under the surrogate's
order, granted in proceedings taken as prescribed in section 2715 of this act.
4. In the case of a temporary administrator, where an order has been
made and served, as prescribed in section 2679 of this act, directing him to
deposit money, or show cause why a warrant of attachment should not issue
against him ; and a warrant of attachment, issued thereupon, has been
returned not served upon him.
§ 2692. Remaining executors may act, where letters of one revoked.
Where one of two or more executors or administrators dies, or becomes a
lunatic, or is convicted of an infamous offense, or becomes otherwise incapa
ble of discharging the trust reposed in him ; or where letters are revoked
with respect to one of them, a successor to the person, whose letters are
revoked shall not be appointed, except where such an appointment is neces
sary, in order to comply with the express terms of a will ; but the others
may proceed and complete the administration of the estate, pursuant to the
letters, and may continue any action or special proceeding, brought by or
against all.
§ 2693. In other cases, successor to be appointed Where all the
executors or all the administrators, to whom letters have been issued, die,
or become incapable, as prescribed in the last section, or the letters are
revoked as to all of them ; the surrogate must grant letters of administra
tion to one or more persons as their successors, in like manner as if the
former letters had not been issued ; and the proceedings to procure the grant
of such letters, are the same, as in a case of intestacy.
8 2694. Testamentary dispositions ; what law governs. The validity
and effect of a testamentary disposition of real property, situated within the
State, or of an interest in real property so situated, which would descend to
the heir of an intestate, and the manner in which such property or such an
interest descends, where it is not disposed of by will, are regulated by the
laws of the State, without regard to the residence of the decedent. Except
where special provision is otherwise made by law, the validity and effect of
a testamentary disposition of any other property situated within the State,
and the ownership and disposition of such property, where it is not disposed
of by will, are regulated by the laws of the State or country, of which the
decedent was a resident at the time of his death.
§ 2695. Ancillary letters upon foreign probate. Where a will of per
sonal property, made by a person who resided without the State at the time
of the execution thereof, or at the time of his death, has been admitted to
probate by a competent court, within the foreign country, or the State, or the
territory of the United States, where it was executed, or where the testator
resided at the time of his death ; the surrogate's court, having jurisdiction
of the estate, must, upon an application made as prescribed in this article,
accompanied with an exemplified copy of the will, and of the judgment,
decree, or order, so admitting the same to probate, and also of the foreign
letters, if any have been issued, record the will and the foreign letters, and
issue thereupon ancillary letters testamentary, or ancillary letters of ad
ministration with the will annexed as the case requires.
§ 2696. Id. ; upon foreign grant of administration. Upon application
by the party entitled, as hereinafter provided, or by his duly authorized attorney in
fact, made as prescribed in this article, to a surrogate's court having juris
diction of the estate ; and upon the presentation of letters of administration
upon the estate of a decedent who resided, at the time of his death, without
the state, but within the United States, granted by a competent court of
the state or territory where the decedent so resided ; or where the decedent,
at the time of his death, resided without the United /States, upon the presentation
to such surrogate's court of satisfactory proof that the parties so applying either
personally or by such attorney, in fact, is entitled to the possession in the foreign
country of the personal estate of such decedent, the surrogate's court to which
the foreign letters are so presented, or to which such proof is so presented, must
issue ancillary letters of administration in accordance with such application
except in the following cases :
1. Where ancillary letters have been previously issued, as prescribed in
the last section.
2. Where an application, for letters of administration upon the estate, has
been made by a relative of the decedent, who is legally competent to act,
to a surrogate's court of the state, having jurisdiction to grant the same ;
and letters have been granted accordingly, or the application has not been
finally disposed of. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881.]
§ 2697. To whom ancillary letters granted. Where the will specially
appoints one or more persons as the executors thereof, with respect to per
sonal property situated within the state, the ancillary letters testamentary
must be directed to the persons so appointed, or to those who are competent
to act and qualify. If all are incompetent, or fail to qualify, or in a case
where such an appointment is not made, ancillary letters testamentary,
or ancillary letters of administration, issued as prescribed in this article,
must be directed to the person named in the foreign letters or to the person
otherwise entitled to the possession of the personal property of the decedent,
unless another person applies therefore, and files with his petition, an
instrument, executed by the foreign executor or administrator, or person
otherwise entitled as aforesaid ; or, if there are two or more, by all who have
qualified and are acting ; and also acknowledged or proved and certified
in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county, authorizing
the petitioner to receive such ancillary letters, in which case, the surrogate
must, if the petitioner is a fit and competent person, issue such letters
directed to him. Where two or more persons are named in the foreign let
ters, or in an instrument executed as prescribed in this section, the ancillary
letters may be directed to either or any of them, without naming the others,
if the others fail to qualify, or if, for good cause shown to the surrogate's
satisfaction, the decree so directs. [Am'd Gh. 535 of 1881.]
§ 2898. Petition ; citation. An application for ancillary letters testa
mentary, or ancillary letters of administration, as prescribed in this article,
must be made by petition. Upon the presentation thereof, the surrogate
must ascertain, to his satisfaction, whether any creditors, or persons claiming
to be creditors of the decedent, reside within the State ; and if so, the name
and residence of each creditor, or person claiming to be a creditor, so far as
the same can be ascertained. He must thereupon issue a citation, directed
to each person whose name and residence have been so ascertained ; and also
directed generally to all creditors, or persons claiming to be creditors, of
the decedent. Any such person, although not cited by his name, may
appear and contest the application, and thus make himself a party to the
special proceeding.
§ 2699. Hearing ; security. Upon the return of the citation, the surro
gate must ascertain, as nearly as he can do so, the amount of debts due, or
claimed to be due, from the decedent to the residents of the State. Before
ancillary letters are issued, the person to whom they are awarded, must
qualify, as prescribed in article fourth of this title, for the qualification of an
administrator upon the estate of an intestate ; except that the penalty of the
bond may, in the discretion of the surrogate, be in such a sum, not exceed
ing twice the amount which appears to be due from the decedent to residents
of the State, as will, in the surrogate's opinion, effectually secure the pay
ment of those debts ; or the sums which the resident creditors will be entitled
to receive, from the persons to whom the letters are issued, upon an account
ing and distribution, either within the State, or within the jurisdiction
where the principal letters were issued.
§ 2700. Persons acting under ancillary letters must transmit assets.
The person to whom ancillary letters are issued, as prescribed in this article,
must unless otherwise directed in the decree awarding the letters ; or in a
decree made upon an accounting ; or by an order of the surrogate, made
during the administration of the estate ; or by the judgment or order of a
court of record, in an action to which that person is a party ; transmit the
money and other personal property of the decedent, received by him after
the letters are issued, or then in his hands in another capacity, to the State,
territory, or country, where the principal letters were granted, to be dis
posed of pursuant to the laws thereof. Money or other property, so trans
mitted by him, at any time before he is so directed to retain it, must be
allowed to him upon an accounting
§ 2701. Id. ; when they may be directed to pay, etc., without trans
mission The surrogate's court, or any court of the State, which has juris
diction of an action to procure an accounting, or a judgment construing the
will, may in a proper case, by its judgment or decree, direct a person, to
whom ancillary letters are issued as prescribed in this article, to pay, out of
the money or the avails of the property, received by him under the ancillary
letters, and with which he is chargeable upon his accounting, the debts of
the decedent, due to creditors residing within the State ; or, if the amount
of all the decedent's debts here and elsewhere exceeds the amount of all
the decedent's personal property applicable thereto, to pay such a sum
to each creditor, residing within the State, as equals that creditor's share of
all the distributable assets, or to distribute the same among legatees or next
of kin, or otherwise dispose of the same, as justice requires.
§ 2702. Id. ; general powers and duties. The provisions of this chap
ter, relating to the rights, powers, duties, and liabilities of an executor or
administrator, apply to a person to whom ancillary letters are granted, as
prescribed in this article ; except those contained in title fifth thereof ; or
where special provision is otherwise made in this article; or where a con
trary intent is expressed in, or plainly to be inferred from, the context.
§ 2703. Recording wills proved in other States, etc. Where real
Sroperty, situated within the State, or an interest therein, which would
escend to an heir is devised, or made subject to a power of disposition, by
a will, valid, and duly executed for that purpose, under the laws of the State,
of a person who was, at the time of his death, a resident elsewhere within
the United States ; and the will has been finally admitted to probate, by the
judgment, decree, or order of a competent court, within the State or territory
where the decedent so resided ; and is filed or recorded in the proper office,
as prescribed by the laws of that State or territory ; an exemplified copy of
the will, or of the record thereof, of the judgment, decree, or order, admit
ting the same to probate, and of the proofs, or of the record thereof, or a
certificate of the substance of the testimony, if such a certificate is on file
or recorded, or if no proofs nor any certificate of the substance thereof is on
file or recorded, a certificate of that fact, may be recorded with the surrogate
of any county of the State, where the real property is situated. Such a
record, or an exemplified copy thereof, is presumptive evidence of the will,
and of the execution thereof, in an action or special proceeding relating to
the real property.
§ 2704. Papers recorded, etc. ; how authenticated. Where letters
testamentary or letters of administration, granted by a court elsewhere
within the United States, are, or an exemplified copy of the judgment, decree,
or order of such a court is, proved, recorded, or otherwise used, as prescribed
in this article, they or it must be authenticated by the seal of the court, and
the signature of the clerk, if any, and of the chief-judge or presiding magis
trate thereof. Where an exemplified copy of a will, or of proofs, or of the
record thereof, is recorded or otherwise used, as prescribed in this article, it
must be authenticated in like manner, if the originals or the records, as the
case may be, remain in the court ; if they are kept in the custody of a sepa
rate officer, they must be authenticated by his official seal and his signature.
Where a certificate of the substance of the testimony is recorded as prescribed
in the last section, it must be made by a judge of the court, and attested by
the seal thereof.
§ 2705. The same. A certificate, under the great or principal seal of the
State or territory, and the hand of the Secretary of State, or other officer who
has the custody thereof, must be appended to the exemplification, letters, or
certificate of the substance of the testimony, to the effect that the court is
duly constituted; that it has jurisdiction, under the laws of the State or
territory, to grant the letters, or to make the judgment, decree, or order, as
the case requires ; that the records or proofs exemplified are kept, pursuant
to those laws, by that court, or by the officer who authenticates the same ;
that the seals, appended, to the exemplifications or certificates are genuiiie ;
and that the officer making the certificate verily believes that each of the
signatures, attesting the exemplification or certificate, is genuine.
§ 2706. Proceedings to discover property withheld, etc. An execu
tor or administrator may present to the surrogate's court, from which letters
were issued to him, a written petition, duly verified, setting forth, upon
knowledge, or information and belief, any facts, tending to show that money
or other personal property, which ought to be delivered to the petitioner, or
which ought to be included in an inventory or appraisal, is in the possession
or under the control of a person, who withholds the same from him ; or con
ceals or refuses to exhibit it, so that it cannot be inventoried or appraised ;
and praying an inquiry respecting it, and that the person complained of may
be cited to attend the inquiry, and to be examined accordingly. The peti
tion may be accompanied with an affidavit or other evidence, written or oral,
tending to support the allegations thereof. If the surrogate is satisfied, upon
the papers so presented, that there are reasonable grounds for the inquiry,
he must issue a citation accordingly ; which may be made returnable forth
with, or at a future time fixed by the surrogate, and may be served at any
time before the hearing.
§ 2707. Id. ; where person withholding is in another county. Where the
person or any of the persons, to be cited, does not reside, or is not within the
county of the surrogate, the citation may, in the surrogate's discretion,
require him to appear at a specified time, at a place within the county
where he resides or is served, before a judge, a justice of the peace, or a
referee, designated in the citation, or before the surrogate of that county.
§ 2708. Order accompanying citation ; how citation and order
served. The surrogate must annex to or indorse upon the citation, an
order, requiring the party cited to attend, personally, at the time and place
therein specified. The citation and order must be personally served ; and
service thereof is ineffectual, unless it is accompanied with payment or tender
of the sum, required by law to be paid or tendered to a witness, who is sub
poenaed to attend a trial in the supreme court. A failure to attend, as
required by a citation and order personally served, may be punished as a
contempt of the court.
§ 2709. Id. ; certain officers may act in surrogate's absence. If the
surrogate is absent, the petition may be presented to the county judge, the
special county judge, or the special surrogate, or to a justice of the supreme
court, or a judge of a superior city court within his city, or, except in New
York or Kings county, to the mayor or recorder of a city within the surro
gate's county. The officer, to whom it is so presented, has the same power
as the surrogate, with respect to all the proceedings, and must issue a cita
tion and an order, returnable before him, or as prescribed in the last two
sections. He may, at any stage of the proceedings, make an order trans
ferring them to the surrogate, who must thereupon complete them, in like
manner, as if he had issued the citation.
§ 2710. Examination of the person cited. Upon the attendance of a
person, to whom a citation is issued, as prescribed in this article, he must be
sworn to answer truly all questions put to him touching the inquiry prayed
for in the petition ; and he may be examined fully and at large, respecting
any money or other property of the decedent, or of which the decedent had
possession at the time of, or within two years before, his death. A refusal
to be sworn, or to answer any question which the officer conducting the
examination determines to be proper, is punishable by the officer or referee
conducting the examination, in the manner as a like refusal by a witness
subpoenaed to attend a hearing before the surrogate. In case the person so
cited shall interpose a written answer, duly verified, that he is the owner of said
property, or is entitled to the possession thereof by virtue of any lien thereon or
special property therein, the surrogate shall dismiss tho proceeding as to such prop
erty so claimed. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881.]
§ 2711. Additional evidence. After the examination of all the parties
cited is completed, unless one or more of them give security, as prescribed
in the next section but one, either party may produce further evidence, in
like manner and with like effect as upon a trial in the absence of the answer
provided for in the last section. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881.]
§ 2712. Decree awarding possession to the petitioner. Where it
appears to the surrogate or other officer who issued the citation, from the
examination and other testimony, if any, that there is reason to suspect, that
money or other property of the decedent is withheld or concealed by the per
son cited, he must, unless that person gives security, as prescribed in the
next section, make a decree, reciting the ground of making it, and requir
ing the person cited to deliver possession of the money or other property to
the petitioner. The decree must specify the sum of money or describe the
other property. Where it is made by an officer, other than the surrogate or
temporary surrogate, it must be entered, and may be enforced, as a decree
of the surrogates court.
§ 2713. Security to prevent decree. The security, to be given as pre
scribed in the last section, must be a bond to the petitioner, executed by the
person cited, with such sureties and in such a penalty as the surrogate
approves; describing the property or specifying the sum of money; and
conditioned that the principal in the bond will pay to the obligee, or his suc
cessor, the money ; or that he will deliver to him the property, or, in default
thereof, pay to the obligee the full value of the property, and, in either case,
that he will pay all damages awarded against him for withholding the prop
erty, whenever it is determined, in an action or special proceeding to be
brought by the obligee or his successor, that it belongs to the estate of the
decedent. Upon the presentation of such a bond, and the payment of the
costs, if any, which the surrogate or other officer awards to the petitioner,
within such a time as the surrogate or other officer fixes for that purpose, an
order must be made, dismissing the proceedings.
§ 2714. Warrant to seize property. Where the decree requires the
person cited to deliver money, disobedience thereto may be punished as a
contempt of court. Where it requires him to deliver possession of oilier
property, a warrant must be issued, upon the application of the petitioner,
directed to the sheriff, or, generally, to any constable of the county, or any
marshal of the city, where the property may be found ; commanding him to
search for it ; to seize it, if it is found in the possession of the person cited,
or his agent, or a person deriving title from him since the presentation of
the petition, and for that purpose, if necessary, to break open any house in
the day time ; to deliver the property so seized, to the petitioner ; and to
return the warrant within sixty days thereafter. If the decree was made by
the surrogate or temporary surrogate, the warrant must be under the seal
of the surrogate's court ; if by any other officer, it must be under his hand,
and returnable before him. The issuing of such a warrant does not affect
the power of the court to enforce the decree, or any part thereof, by punish
ing a disobedience thereto.
§ 2715. Executor, etc., how compelled to return inventory. A cred
itor, or person interested in the estate, may present to the surrogate's court
proof, by affidavit, that an executor or administrator has failed to return an
inventory or a sufficient inventory, within the time prescribed by law there
for. Thereupon, if the surrogate is satisfied that the executor or adminis
trator is in default, he must make an order, requiring the delinquent to
return the inventory, or a further inventory ; or, in default thereof, to show
cause, at a time and place therein specified, why he should not be attached.
Upon the return of the order, if the delinquent has not filed a sufficient
inventory, the surrogate must issue a warrant of attachment against him,
upon which the- proceedings are the same, as upon a warrant issued for dis
obedience to an order, as prescribed in title twelfth of chapter seventeenth
of this act.
§ 2716. Id. ; how discharged from commitment A person committed
to jail, upon the return of a warrant of attachment, issued as prescribed in
the last section, may be discharged by the surrogate, or a justice of the
supreme court, upon his paying and delivering, under oath, all the money
and other property of the decedent, and all papers relating to the estate,
under his control, to the surrogate, or to a person authorized by the surrogate
to receive the same.
§ 2717. Petition by creditor or legatee to compel payment. In
either of the following cases, a petition may be presented to the surrogate's
court, praying for a decree directing an executor or administrator to pay
the petitioner's claim, and that he may be cited to show cause, why such a
decree should not be made :
* 1. By a creditor, for the payment of a debt, or of its just proportional
part, at any time after six months have expired since letters were granted.
2. By a person entitled to a legacy, or any other pecuniary provision under
the will, or a distributive share, for the payment or satisfaction thereof, or
of its just proportional part, at any time after one year has expired since
letters were granted.
§ 2718. Hearing ; decree. Upon the presentation of a petition, as pre
scribed in the last section, the surrogate must issue a citation accordingly ;
and, upon the return thereof, he must make such a decree in the premises,
as justice requires. But in either of the following cases, the decree must
dismiss the petition, without prejudice to an action or an accounting, in
behalf of the petitioner :
1. Where the executor or administrator files a written answer, duly veri
fied, setting forth facts which show that it is doubtful, whether the petition
er's claim is valid and legal, and denying its validity or legality, absolutely,
or upon information and belief
2. Where it is not proved to the satisfaction of the surrogate, that there
is money or other personal property of the estate, applicable to the payment
or satisfaction of the petitioner's claim, and which may be so applied, with
out injuriously affecting the rights of others, entitled to priority or equality
of payment or satisfaction.
§ 2719. Decree for payment of legacy, etc., on giving security. In a
case specified in subdivision second of the last section but one, the surrogate
may, in his discretion, entertain the petition, at any time after letters are
granted, although a year has not expired. In such a case, if it appears,
upon the return of the citation, that a decree for payment may be made, as
prescribed in the last section ; and that the amount of money, and the value
of the other property, in the hands of the executor or administrator, appli
cable to the payment of debts, legacies, and expenses, exceed, by at least
one-third, the amount of all known debts and claims against the estate, of
all legacies which are entitled to priority over the petitioner's claim, and of
all legacies or distributive shares of the same class ; and that the payment
or satisfaction of the legacy, pecuniary provision, or distributive share, or
some part thereof, is necessary for the support or education of the petitioner ;
the surrogate may, in his discretion, make a decree, directing payment or
satisfaction accordingly, upon the filing of a bond, approved by the surro
gate, conditioned as prescribed by law, with respect to a bond which an
executor, or an administrator, with the will annexed, may require from a
legatee, upon payment or satisfaction of a legacy, before the expiration of
one year from the time when letters were issued, pursuant to a direction to
that effect, contained in the will.
§ 2720. Proceedings against executor, etc., for not setting apart
exempt property. Where an executor or administrator has failed to set
apart property for a surviving husband, wife or child, as prescribed by law,
the person aggrieved may present a petition to the surrogate's court, setting
forth the failure, and praying for a decree, requiring such executor or admin
istrator to set apart the property accordingly; or, if it has been lost, injured
or disposed of, to pay the value thereof, or the amount of the injury thereto,
and that he may be cited to show cause why such a decree should not be
made. If the surrogate is of the opinion that sufficient cause is shown, he
must issue a citation accordingly. Upon the return of the citation, the
surrogate mast make such a decree, in the premises, as justice requires. In
a proper case, the decree may require the executor, personally, to pay the
value of the property or the amount of the injury thereto. [Am'd Ch. 535
op 1881.]
§ 2721. Id. ; upon judicial settlement The decree, made upon a
judicial settlement of the account of an executor, or administrator, may
award to a surviving husband, wife, or child, the same relief which may be
awarded, in his or her favor, upon a petition presented as prescribed in the
last section.
Intermediate accounting ; when voluntary.
Id. ; when compulsory.
2725. When surrogate may require judicial settlement of account.
Who may apply for accounting ; citation thei-eupon.
Order to account ; supplemental citation.
Person cited may bring in other parties ; proceedings thereupon.
Executor, etc., may petition for judicial settlement ; citation thereupon.
Hearing.
Creditor, etc., not cited may contest.
Executor whose letters have been revoked may petition. Proceedings.
Affidavit to be annexed to account.
Vouchers to be produced.
Accounting party to be examined, etc.
Compensation of several executors or administrators.
When compensation not allowed.
One compensation allowed on different letters.
Surrogate may determine certain claims.
Effect of the statute of limitations on such claims.
Surrogate may allow for property lost, etc.
Effect of judicial settlement of account.
Decree for payment and distribution.
Id. ; when specific property may be delivered.
Id. ; when money may be retained.
Id. ; share of infant.
Legacy, etc., to unknown persons to be paid into State treasury.
When legacy, etc., to be paid to county treasurer.

§ 2722. Intermediate accounting ; when voluntary. An executor or
administrator may, at any time, voluntarily file in the surrogate's office an
intermediate account, and the vouchers in support of the same.
§ 2723. Id. ; when compulsory. In either of the following cases the
surrogate may, in his discretion, make an order, requiring an executor or
administrator to render an intermediate account :
1. Where an application for an order, permitting an execution to issue
upon a judgment against the executor or administrator, has been made by
the judgment creditor, as prescribed in section 1826 of this act.
2. Upon the return of a citation, issued upon the petition of a judgment
creditor, praying for a decree, granting leave to issue an execution upon a
judgment rendered against the decedent in his life-time, as prescribed in
section 1381 of this act.
3. Upon the return of a citation, issued upon the petition of a creditor, or
person entitled to a legacy, or other pecuniary provision, or a distributive
share, praying for a decree directing payment thereof, as prescribed in sec
tion 2717 of this act.
4. "Where eighteen months have elapsed since letters were issued, and no
special proceeding, upon a petition for a judicial settlement of the executor's
or administrator's account, is pending.
§ 2724. When surrogate may require judicial settlement of account
In either of the following cases, the surrogate's court may, from time to
time, compel a judicial settlement of the account of an executor or adminis
trator :
1. Where one year has expired, since letters were issued to him.
2. Where letters issued to him have been revoked, or, for any other reason,
his powers have ceased.
3. Where a decree for the disposition of real property, or of an interest in
real property, has been made, as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter, and
the property, or a part thereof, has been disposed of by him, pursuant to the
decree.
4. Where he has sold, or otherwise disposed of, any of the decedent's real
property, or devisable interest in real property, or the rents, profits, or pro
ceeds thereof, pursuant to a power contained in the decedent's will, where
one pear has elapsed since letters were issued to him. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881.
§ 2725. The same. The surrogate's court may compel a judicial settle
ment of the account of a temporary administrator, at any time. It may also
compel a judicial settlement of the account of a freeholder, ajipointed to dis
pose of a decedent's real property, or interest in real property, as prescribed
in title fifth of this chapter, in like manner as where the same has been
disposed of by the executor or administrator.
§ 2726. Who may apply for accounting ; citation thereupon. A
petition, praying for the judicial settlement of an account, and that the
executor or administrator may be cited to show cause, why he should not
render and settle his account, may be presented, in a case prescribed in
either of the last two sections, by a creditor, or a person interested in the
estate or fund, including a child born after the making of a will ; or by any
person, in behalf of an infant so interested ; or by a surely in the official
bond of the person required to account, or the legal representative of such a
surety. Upon the presentation of such a petition, a citation must be issued
accordingly ; except that, in a case specified in subdivision first of the last
section but one, if the petition is presented within less than eighteen months
after letters were issued to the executor or administrator, the surrogate may
entertain or decline to entertain it, in his discretion.
§ 2727. Order to account ; supplemental citation Upon the return
of a citation, issued as prescribed in either of the foregoing sections of this
article, if the executor or administrator fails either to appear, or to show
good cause to the contrary, or to present, in a proper case, a petition as pre
scribed in the next section but one, an order must be made, directing him
to account within such a time, and in such a manner as the surrogate pre
scribes, and to attend, from time to time, before the surrogate, for that
purpose. The executor or administrator is bound by such an order, without
service thereof. If he disobeys it, the surrogate may issue a warrant of
attachment against him, and his letters may be revoked, as where a warrant
of attachment is issued to compel the return of an inventory. If it appears
that there is a surplus, distributable to creditors or persons interested, the
surrogate may, at any time, issue a supplemental citation, directed to the
persons who must be cited, upon the petition of an executor or administrator
for a judicial settlement of his account, and requiring them to attend the
accounting.
§ 2728. Persons cited may bring in other parties ; proceedings there
upon Upon the return of a citation, issued as prescribed in either of the
foregoing sections of this article, if one year has expired since letters were
issued to the executor or administrator, he may present a petition as pre
scribed in the next section. A citation issued upon such a petition, need
not be directed to the petitioner in the special proceeding pending against
the executor or administrator ; but the hearing of that special proceeding
must be adjourned, until the return of the citation so issued ; whereupon the
two special proceedings must be consolidated. The consolidation does not
affect any power of the surrogate, which might be exercised in either special
proceeding.
§ 2729. Executor, etc., may petition for judicial settlement ; citation
thereupon. At any time after the expiration of one year since letters were
issued to an executor or administrator, he may present to the surrogate's
court a written petition, duly verified, praying that his account may be judi
cially settled ; and that the creditors, or persons claiming to be creditors, of
the decedent, and the decedent's husband or wife, next of kin and legatees,
if any ; or, if either of those persons has died, his executor or administra
tor, if any ; may be cited to attend the settlement. If one of two or more
co-executors or co-administrators presents a petition for a judicial settlement
of his separate account, it must pray that his co-executors or co-adminis
trators may also be cited. Upon the presentation of a petition, as prescribed
in this section, the surrogate must issue a citation accordingly.
§ 2730. Hearing. Upon the return of a citation issued as prescribed in
the last section, the surrogate must take the account and hear the allega
tions and proofs of the parties, respecting the same. Any party may con
test the account, with respect to a matter affecting his interest in the settle
ment and distribution of the estate ; and any party may content an interme
diate account rendered under section 2723 of this act in case the same shall not be
consolidated pursuant to section 2728 of this act. [Am'd Ch. 535 of 1881.]
§ 2731. Creditor, etc., not cited, may contest. A creditor, or a person
interested in the estate, although not cited, is entitled to appear upon the
hearing, and thus make himself a party to the special proceeding.
§ 2732. Executor whose letters have been revoked may petition.
Proceedings. Where letters, issued to an executor or administrator, have
been revoked, he may present to the surrogate's court a written petition,
duly verified, praying that his account may be judically settled, and that
his successor, if a successor has been appointed, and the other persons speci
fied in section 2729 of this act, may be cited to attend the settlement. The
provisions of the last three sections apply to. and regulate the proceedings
upon, such a petition.
§ 2733. Affidavit to be annexed to account To each account, filed
with the surrogate, as prescribed in this article, must be appended the affi
davit of the accounting party, to the effect that the account contains, accord
ing to the best of his knowledge and belief, a full and true statement of all
his receipts and disbursements on account of the estate of the decedent ;
and of all money and other property belonging to the estate, which have
come to his hands, or which have been received by any other person, by his
order or authority, for his use ; and that he does not know of any error or
omission in the account, to the prejudice of any creditor of, or person inter
ested in, the estate of the decedent.
§ 2734. Vouchers to be produced. Upon an accounting by an executor
or administrator, the accounting party must produce and file a vouchc for
every payment, except in one of the following cases :
1. He may be allowed, without a voucher, any proper item of expenditure,
not exceeding twenty dollars, if it is supported by his own uncontradicted
oath, stating positively the fact of payment, and specifying when and to
whom the payment was made ; provided that all the items so allowed against
an estate, upon all the accountings of all the executors or administrators,
shall not exceed five hundred dollars.
2. If he proves, by his own oath or another's testimony, that he did not
take a vouchor when he made the payment ; or that the voucher then taken
by him lias been lost or destroyed ; he may be allowed any item, the pay
ment of which he satisfactorily proves by the testimony of the person to
whom he made it ; or, if that person is dead, or cannot, after diligent search,
be found, by any competent evidence, other than his own oath, or that of his
wife.
But an allowance cannot be made, as specified in this section, unless the
surrogate is satisfied that the charge is correct and just.
§ 2735. Accounting party to be examined, etc. The surrogate may,
at any time, make an order requiring the accounting party to make and file
his account ; or to attend and be examined under oath, touching his receipts
and disbursements ; or touching any other matter relating to his adminis
tration of the estate, or any act done by him under color of his letters, or
after the decedent's death, and before the letters were issued ; or touching
any personal property, owned or held by the decedent, at the time of his
death.
§ 2736. Compensation of several executors or administrators.
Where the value of the personal estate of the decedent amounts to one hun
dred thousand dollars, or more, over all his debts, each executor or adminis
trator is entitled to the full compensation allowed by law to a sole executor
or administrator, unless there are more than three, in which case, the com
pensation, to which three would be entitled, shall be apportioned among them
according to the services rendered by th-em respectively ; and a like apportionment
shall be made in all cases where there shall be more than one executor or adminis
trator. [Am'd Ch. 535 of 1881.]
§ 2737. When compensation not allowed. But where the will pro
vides a specific compensation to an executor or administrator, he is not
entitled to any allowance for his services, unless, by a written instrument
filed with the surrogate, he renounces the specific compensation.
§ 2738. One compensation allowed on different letters. Where suc
cessive or different letters are issued to the same person, upon the estate of
the same decedent, including a case where letters testamentary, or letters of
general administration, are issued to a person who has been previously
appointed a temporary administrator, he is entitled to compensation, in one
capacity only, at his election ; except that where he has received compen
sation in one capacity, he is entitled to the excess, if any, of the compen
sation prescribed by law in the other capacity, above the sum which he has
already received.
§ 2739. Surrogate may determine certain claims. Upon a judicial
settlement of the account of an executor or administrator, he may prove any
debt owing to him by the decedent. Where a contest arises between the
accounting party and any of the other parties, respecting any property
alleged to belong to the estate, but to which the accounting party lays
claim ; or respecting a debt, alleged to be due by the accounting party to
the decedent, or by the decedent to the accounting party ; the contest must
be tried and determined in the same manner as any other issue arising in
the surrogate's court.
§ 2740. Effect of the statute of limitations on such claims. From
the death of the decedent, until the first judicial settlement of an account of
his executor or administrator, the running of the statute of limitations against
a debt due from the decedent to the accounting party, or any other cause
of action, in favor of the latter against the decedent, is suspended, unless
the accounting party was appointed upon the revocation of former letters
issued to another person ; in which case, the running of the statute is so
suspended from the grant of letters to him, until the first j idicial settlement
of his account. After the first judicial settlement of the account of an
executor or administrator, the statute of limitations begins again to run
against a debt due to him from the decedent, or any other cause of action
in his favor against the decedent.
§ 2741. Surrogate may allow for property lost, etc. Upon a judicial
■ettlement of the account of an executor or administrator, the surrogate may
allow the accounting party for property of the decedent, perished or lost
without the fault of the accounting party.
§ 2742. Effect of judicial settlement of account. A judicial settle
ment of the account of an executor or administrator, either by the decree of
the surrogate's court, or upon an appeal therefrom, is conclusive evidence
against all the parties who were duly cited or appeared, and all persons
deriving title from any of them, at any time, of the following facts, and no
others :
1. That the items allowed to the accounting party, for money paid to
creditors, legatees, and next of kin, for necessary expenses, and for his ser
vices, are correct.
2. That the accounting party has been charged with all the interest for
money received by him, and embraced in the account, for which he was
legally accountable.
3. That the money charged to the accounting party, as collected, is all
that was collectible, at the time of the settlement, on the debts stated in the
account.
4. That the allowances made to the accounting party, for the decrease,
and the charges against him for the increase, in the value of property,
were correctly made.
§ 2743. Decree for payment and distribution. Where an account is
judicially settled, as prescribed in this article, and any part of the estate
remains and is ready to be distributed to the creditors, legatees, next of
kin, husband, or wife of the decedent, or their assigns, the decree must
direct the payment and distribution thereof to the persons so entitled,
according to their respective rights. If any person, who is a necessary party
for that purpose, has not been cited or has not appeared, a supplemental
citation must be issued, as prescribed in section 2727 of this act. Where
the validity of a debt, claim, or distributive share, is not disputed, or has
heen established, the decree must determine to whom it is payable, the sum
to be paid by reason thereof, and all other questions concerning the same.
With respect to the matters enumerated in this section, the decree is conclu
sive upon each party to the special proceeding, who was duly cited or
appeared ; and upon every person deriving title from such a party.
§ 2744. Id. ; when specific property may be delivered. In either of
the following cases, the decree may direct the delivery of an unsold chattel,
or the assignment of an uncollected demand, or any other personal property,
to a party or parties entitled to payment or distribution, in lieu of the
money value of the property :
1. Where all the parties interested, who have appeared, manifest their
consent thereto by a writing filed in the surrogate's office.
2. Where it appears that a sale thereof, for the purpose of payment or
distribution, would cause a loss to the parties entitled thereto.
The value must be ascertained, if the consent does not fix it, by an
appraisement under oath, made by one or more persons appointed by the
eurrogate for the purpose.
§ 2745. Id. ; when money may be retained. Where an admitted debt
of the decedent is not yet due, and the creditor will not accept present pay
ment, with a rebate of interest ; or where an action is pending between the
executor or administrator, and a person claiming to be a creditor of the
decedent ; the decree must direct that a sum, sufficient to satisfy the claim,
or the proportion to which it is entitled, together with the probable amount
of the interest and costs, be retained in the hands of the accounting party ;
or be deposited ip a safe bank, or trust company, subject to the surrogate's
order ; or be paid into the surrogate's court, for the purpose of being applied
to the payment of the claim, when it is due, recovered, or settled ; and that
so much thereof, as is not needed for that purpose, be afterwards distributed
according to law.
§ 2746. Id. ; share of infant. Where a distributive share is payable to
an infant, the decree must direct, either that it be paid to his general guard
ian, to be applied to his support and education ; or that it be invested for
his benefit, as prescribed by law with respect to a legacy to an infant, and
with the like authority to apply the interest, and subject to the same obliga
tions ; or that a portion thereof be so paid, and the remainder be so invested.
§ 2747. Legacy, etc., to unknown person to be paid into State
treasury. Where the person entitled to a legacy or distributive share is
unknown, the decree must direct the executor or administrator to pay the
amount thereof into the treasury of the State, for the benefit of the person
or persons who may thereafter appear to be entitled thereto. The surrogate,
or the supreme court, upon the petition of a person claiming to be so entitled,
and upon at least fourteen days' notice to the Attorney-General, accompanied
with a copy of the petition, may by a reference, or by directing the trial of
an issue by a jury, or otherwise, ascertain the rights of the persons interested,
and grant an order directing the payment of any money, which appears to
be due to the claimant, but without interest, and deducting all expenses
incurred by the State with respect to the decedent's estate. The Comp
troller, upon the production of a certified copy of the order, must draw his
warrant upon the treasury, for the amount therein directed to be paid ; which
must be paid by the State Treasurer, to the person entitled thereto.
§ 2748. When legacy, etc., to be paid to county treasurer. The decree
must also direct the executor or administrator to pay to the county treasurer
a legaey or distributive share, which is not paid to the person entitled thereto,
at the expiration of two years from the time when the decree is made, or
when the legacy or distributive share is payable by the terms of the decree.
The money, so paid to the county treasurer, can be paid out by him only by
the special direction of the surrogate ; or pursuant to the judgment of a court
of competent jurisdiction.
§ 2749. What property subject to this title. Real property, of which
a decedent died seized, and the interest of a decedent in real property, held
by him under a contract for the purchase thereof, made either with him, or
with a person from whom he derived his interest, may be disposed of, for
the payment of his debts and funeral expenses, as prescribed in this title ;
except where it is devised, expressly charged with the payment of debts or
funeral expenses, or is exempted from levy and sale by virtue of an execu
tion, as prescribed in title second of chapter thirteenth of this act. The
expression, " funeral expenses," as used in this title, includes a reasonable
charge for a suitable headstone.
§ 2750. Petition ; when and by whom presented. At any time within
three years after letters were first duly granted, within the State, upon the
estate of a decedent, an executor or administrator, whether sole, or joined in
the letters with another, other than a temporary administrator ; or a cred
itor of the decedent, other than a creditor by a judgment or a mortgage,
which is a lien upon the decedent's real property ; may present to the sur
rogate's court from which letters were issued, a written petition, duly verified, praying for a decree directing the disposition of the decedent's real
property, or interest in real property, specified in the last section, or so much
thereof as is necessary, for the payment of hia debts or funeral expenses ;
and that the necessary parties, as prescribed in the subsequent sections of
this title, may be cited to show cause why such a decree should not be made.
§ 2751. Creditor's time to apply extended in certain cases. The
time, during which an action is pending in a court of record, between a
creditor and an executor or administrator of the estate, is not a part of the
time limited in the last section, for presenting a petition, founded upon a
debt, which was in controversy in the action ; if the creditor has, before the
expiration of the time so limited, filed, in the clerk's office of the county
where the real property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action ;
specifying the names of the parties, the object of the action, and, if the
creditor's debt is made the foundation of a counterclaim, the nature of the
counterclaim ; containing a description of the property in that county to be
affected thereby; and stating that it will be held, as security for any judg
ment obtained an the action. A notice so filed must be recorded and
indexed, and may be cancelled, as prescribed, with respect to the notice of
pendency of an action, in article ninth of title first of chapter fourteenth of
this act. It may also be cancelled in like manner, or a specified portion
of the property affected thereby, may be discharged from the lien thereof,
by the order of the court in which the action is pending, made upon the
application of a person having an interest in the real property, upon notice
to the creditor, and upon such terms as justice requires.
§ 2752. Contents of petition. The petition must set forth the following
matters, as nearly as the petitioner can, upon diligent inquiry, ascertain
them :
1. The unpaid debts of the decedent, and the name of each creditor, or
person claiming to be a creditor; and the amount of the unpaid funeral
expenses of the decedent, if any, and the name of each person to whom any
sum is due by reason thereof.
2. A general description of all the decedent's real property, and interest
in real property, within the State, which may be disposed of as prescribed
in this title ; a statement of the value of each distinct parcel ; whether it is
improved or not ; whether it is occupied or not ; and, if occupied, the name
of each occupant. Where the petition describes an interest in real property,
specified in section 2749 of this act, the value of the interest must be stated,
and also the value of, and the other particulars, specified in this section,
relating to the real property to which the interest attaches.
3. The names of the husband or wife, and of all the heirs and devisees
of the decedent, and also of every other person claiming under them, or
either of them, stating who, if any, are infants; the age of each infant,
and the name of his general guardian, if any ; and also, if the petition is
presented by a creditor, the name of each executor or administrator.
4. If the petition is presented by an executor or administrator, the amount
of personal property which has come to his hands, and those of his co-execu
tors or co-administrators, if any ; the application thereof, and the amount
which may yet be realized therefrom.
§ 2753. Proceedings where some of the facts are unknown. If, upon
diligent inquiry, any of the matters required to be set forth, as prescribed
in the last section, cannot be ascertained by the petitioner, that fact must be
shown to the surrogate's satisfaction, and the surrogate must thereupon
inquire into the matter, as prescribed in article first of title second of this
chapter. If the petition is presented by a creditor, the surrogate may, by
order, require the executor or administrator to render such an account, or
other statement, as he deems necessary for the purpose of the inquiry.
§ 2754. Citation thereupon. Where the surrogate is satisfied that all
the facts, specified in the last section but one, have been ascertained, as far
as they can be upon diligent inquiry, and it appears to him that the debts
and funeral expenses, or either, cannot be paid, without resorting to the real
property, or interest in real property, he must issue a citation according to
the prayer of the petition. If, upon the inquiry, it appears to the surrogate
that any heir or devisee, or person claiming an interest in the property under
an heir or devisee, is not named in the petition, the citation must also be
directed to him. Unless the executor or administrator has caused to be pub
lished, as prescribed by law, a notice requiring creditors to present their
claims, and the time for the presentation thereof, pursuant to the notice, has
elapsed, the citation must be directed, generally, to all other creditors
of the decedent, as well as to the creditors named.
§ 2755. Hearing. Upon the return of the citation, the surrogate must
proceed to hear the allegations and proofs of the parties. A creditor of the
decedent, or a person having a claim for unpaid funeral expenses, although
not named in the citation, may present and prove his debt, and thus make
himself a party to the special proceeding. An heir or devisee, or a person
claiming under an heir or devisee of the property in question, although not
named in the citation, may contest the necessity of applying the property to
the payment of debts or funeral expenses, or the validity of a debt repre
sented as existing against the decedent, or the reasonableness of the funeral
expenses ; may interpose any defense to the whole or any part thereof ; and
for that purpose, may make himself a party to the special proceeding.,
Where such a defense arises under the statute of limitations, an act or admis
sion by an executor or administrator does not prevent the running of the
statute, or revive the debt, so as to affect in any manner the real property,
or interest in real property in question.
2756. Proof of debt upon which judgment, etc., has been rendered
ere a judgment or decree has been rendered against an executor or admin
istrator, for a debt due from the decedent, the debt is, nevertheless, deemed
a debt of the decedent, to the same extent, and to be established in the same
manner, and, except as prescribed in the next section, subject to the same
defenses, as if an action had not been brought thereon. But a judgment or
decree, rendered upon a trial upon the merits, is presumptive evidence of the
debt upon the hearing before the surrogate.
§ 2757. The last section qualified The last section is subject to the
following exceptions :
1. The debt for which the judgment was rendered, cannot be allowed, as
against the property in question, at any greater sum than the amount
recovered, exclusive of costs.
2. An heir or devisee of any of the property in question, or a party claim
ing under an heir or devisee, may interpose, in reduction of the amount
claimed to be due upon a judgment or decree against the decedent, or against
the executor or administrator, any payment or counterclaim which might be
allowed to him, or to the person under whom he claims, in an action founded
upon the debt.
§ 2758. Decree to recite debts. The decree must determine^and specify
the amount of each debt established before the surrogate, as a valid and sub
sisting debt against the decedent's estate, or as a just and reasonable charge
for funeral expenses, and must, in like manner, specify what demands pre
sented have been rejected. The vouchers presented before the surrogate, in
support of each debt established, must be filed and remain in the surrogate's
office.
§ 2759. What proof necessary for a decree. A decree, directing the
disposition of real property, or of an interest in real property, can be made
only where, after due examination, the following facts have been established
to the satisfaction of the surrogate :
1. That the proceedings have been in conformity to this title.
2. That the debts, for the payment of whicn the decree is made, are the
debts of the decedent, or are just and reasonable charges for his funeral
expenses ; and are justly due.
3. That thay are not secured by a judgment or mortgage, or expressly
charged by the will upon the decedent's real property, or interest in real
property ; or, if a debt is so secured or charged upon a portion of the real
property, or interest in real property, that the remedies of the creditor, by
virtue of that charge or security, have been exhausted.
4. That tho property directed to be disposed of was not effectually devised,
expressly charged with the payment of debts or funeral expenses, and is
not subject to a valid power of sale for the payment thereof; or, if so devised,
or subject, that it is not practicable to enforce the charge, or to execute the
power, and that the creditor has effectually relinquished the same.
5. That all the personal property of the decedent, which could have been
applied to payment of the decedent's debts aud funeral expenses, has been
so applied ; or that the executors or administrators have proceeded with
reasonable diligence, in converting the personal property into money, and
applying it to the payment of those debts and funeral expenses ; and that it
is insufficient for the payment of the same, as established by the decree.
§ 2760. Decree to mortgage or lease. If the facts, specified in the last
section, are satisfactorily established, the surrogate must inquire, whether
sufficient money can be raised, advantageously to the persons interested in
the real property, by a mortgage or lease of the real property of which the
decedent died seized, or of a p.irt thereof. If he ascertains that the money
can be so raised, the decree must direct the execution of one or more mort
gages or leases accordingly ; but a lease shall not be made for a longer time
than until the youngest person, interested in the property leased, attains
full age. A mortgage or lease, executed pursuant to such a decree, has the
same effect, as if it had been made by the decedent, immediately before his
death.
§ 2761. Decree to sell. Where it appears to the surrogate, upon the
inquiry made as prescribed in the last section, that sufficient money cannot
be raised, advantageously to the persons interested in the real property, by
mortgage or lease, the decree must direct a sale of the real property, or
interest in real property, or of so much thereof as is necessary, in order to
pay the debts and funeral expenses of the decedent, as established in the
decree. Where a sale of all the real property, or interest in real property,
is not necessary for that purpose, but enough of either cannot be sold, with
out manifest prejudice to the persons interested, the decree may direct a
sale of all the real property, or all the interest in real property, or both, or
of such a part of either as the surrogate thinks proper.
§ 2762. Id. ; when title is In controversy. Where it appears that any
of the real property, of which the decedent died seized, cannot be sold,
without manifest prejudice to the persons interested therein, by reason of a
controversy respecting the decedent's title thereto, or interest therein, the
decree may direct that the execution thereof, with respect to that property,
he postponed, until the special direction of the surrogate. In that case, a
party may apply at any time afterwards, upon notice to the others who
appeared, for an order directing the execution of the decree, with respect to
the property so reserved.
§ 2763. Id. ; order in which different parcels are to be sold. Where
the decree directs the sale of two or more distinct parcels of real property, of
which the decedent died seized ; or his interest under two or more contracts
for the purchase of distinct parcels of real property ; the decree may direct
the sale to be made, in the order which the surrogate deems just, unless it
appears that one or more distinct parcels, of which the decedent died seized,
have been devised by him, or sold by his heirs ; in which case, the several
distinct parcels must be sold in the following order :
1. Property which decended to the decedent's heirs, and has not been sold
by them.
2. Property so descended, which has been sold by them.
3. Property which has been devised, and has not been sold by the devisee.
4. Property so devised, which has been sold by the devisee.
§ 2764. Id. ; where undivided interest or precedent estate is cre
ated by the will, etc. Where the decedent's will devises an undivided
interest in real property, but not the whole of his estate therein ; or creates
a precedent estate in real property ; or where an heir of the decedent has
sold an undivided interest, or created a precedent estate, in real property
which descended to him ; the entire property, to which the undivided inter
est or precedent estate attaches, must be sold. But, in applying the pro
ceeds to the payment, of debts and funeral expenses, the application of the
proportion of the proceeds, belonging to the devisee or grantee of the undi
vided interest, or of the precedent estate, must be postponed to the appli
cation of the residue, in the order prescribed in the last section, in like
manner, as if that undivided interest or precedent estate was a distinct par
cel of the property.
§ 2765. Form of decree. A decree directing that real property be
mortgaged, leased, or sold, or that an interest in real property be sold, as
prescribed in this title, must describe it with common certainty ; and must
purpose of paying the
debts or funeral expenses, established by the decree, be made by the execu
tor or administrator, upon his giving the bond prescribed by law ; or, in
case of his failure so to do, by a freeholder, to be appointed by the surrogate,
as prescribed by law.
§ 2766. Bond to be given by executor or administrator. Before an
executor or administrator can execute a decree, directing that property be
mortgaged, leased, or sold, he must execute, and file with the surrogate, his
bond, with two or more sureties, to the people of the State, in a penalty,
fixed by the surrogate, not less than twice the sum to be raised, if the decree
directs a mortgage ; or, if it directs a lease, in such a penalty as the surro
gate thinks proper ; or, if it directs a sale, in a penalty not less than twice
the value of the real property, or interest in real property, directed to be sold.
The bond must be conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties,
imposed upon the principal by the decree, for the payment into the surro
gate's court, within twenty days after the receipt thereof, by the principal,
of all money arising from the mortgage, lease, or sale ; for the delivery to
the surrogate, within the same time, of all the securities taken thereupon ;
and for the accounting by the principal, for all money received by him,
whenever he is required so to do, by a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 2767. If he refuses, freeholder to be appointed to execute decree.
Where there are two or more executors or administrators, if either of them
fails, within such time as the surrogate deems reasonable, to give, or to join
with his co-executors or co-administrators in giving, a bond, as prescribed in
the last section, the surrogate may direct those who have given the bond, to
proceed to execute the decree. But if a sole executor or administrator, or all
the executors or administrators so fail, the surrogate must make an order,
appointing a disinterested freeholder to execute the decree. He may vacate
such an appointment, and make a new appointment, from time to time, as
the case requires. A person so appointed must give a bond, in all respects
like that required from an executor or administrator, as prescribed in the
last section. In making such an appointment, the surrogate must give a
preference to a competent person nominated by the creditors, whose debts
have been established, or a majority of them in number and amount.
§ 2768. Order directing execution of decree. Where an executor or
administrator, or a freeholder appointed as prescribed in the last section, has
fiven the requisite bond, an order must be made, reciting the fact, and
irecting him to proceed to execute the decree. The order may direct the
execution of the decree, with respect to all or any part of the real property,
or any of the interests in real property, specified in the decree. Where it
directs the execution of the decree, with respect to part only, an order to
execute it with respect to any other part or parts, may be made from time
to time, as the case requires.
§ 2769. Id ; as to distinct parcels after appeal Where the only
question, upon an appeal taken from a decree directing a sale of real prop
erty, or of an interest in real property, or both, relates to the validity or
amount of a debt established by the decree ; and the real property directed
to be sold, or to which the interest directed to be sold attaches, consists of
two or more distinct parcels, the sale of, or with respect to, one or more of
which will suffice to pay all the other debts so established, leaving enough
real property, or interest in real property, unsold, to satisfy the claim
drawn in question upon the appeal; the appellate court may, upon the
motion of any party to the special proceeding in the surrogate's court, made
upon notice to all parties to the appeal, direct the surrogate's court to
cause the decree to be executed, with respect to the distinct parcels of real
property, which will suffice to pay the debts not in controversy ; and the
proceeds of a sale, made pursuant thereto, to be distributed, in like manner
as if the decree related only to those parcels and those debts ; except that
any surplus, which may remain for distribution after payment of those
debts, or so much thereof as will suffice to pay the demand in controversy,
must be paid into the surrogate's court and retained by the county treas
urer, subject to the order of the surrogate, to abide the event of the appeal.
But this section does not authorize a sale of any distinct parcel, otherwise
than in the order prescribed for that purpose, in sections 2764 and 2765 of
this act.
§ 2770. Id. ; not affected by death, etc. The death, removal, or dis
qualification, before the complete execution of a decree, of all the executors
or administrators, who have been directed to execute it, or of a freeholder
appointed for that purpose, does not suspend or affect the execution thereof;
but the successor of the person who has died, been removed, or become dis
qualified, must proceed to complete all unfinished matters, as his predecessor
might have completed the same ; and he must give such security for the due
performance of his duties, as the surrogate prescribes.
8 2771. What credit allowed on sale. The surrogate may, in the
order directing the execution of the decree, or in a separate order made
before the sale, allow a sale to be made upon a credit, not exceeding three
years, for not more than three-fourths of the purchase-money, to be secured
by the purchaser's bond, and his mortgage on the property sold, except
where the sale is that of an interest under a contract ; in which case, the
order may prescribe the security to be given.
§ 2772. Mode of sale ; notice thereof Each distinct parcel of real
property must be sold in the county, where it, or a part thereof, is situated.
The provisions of sections 1384, 1385, 1386, 1434, 1435, and 1436 of this act
apply to a sale of real property, or of an interest in real property, as pre
scribed in this title. In making the application, each provision relating to
the sheriff is deemed to apply to the person making the sale, pursuant to
the decree, and the order directing the execution thereof.
t2773. Distinct parcels to be sold separately. Where real property
e sold consists of one or more distinct parcels, the person making the
sale must cause each distinct parcel to be separately exposed for sale, unless
otherwise directed in the decree, or in the order to execute the same, or in
an order subsequently made by the surrogate.
§ 2774. Who not to purchase. An executor or administrator upon the
estate, a freeholder appointed to execute a decree, or a general or special
guardian of an infant, who has an interest in any of the real property to
a sold, shall not, directly or indirectly, purchase, or be, or, at any time
before confirmation, become interested in a purchase at the sale ; except
that a guardian may, when authorized so to do by the order of the surro
gate, purchase, in his name of office, for the benefit of his ward. A viola
tion of this section renders the purchase void.
§ 2775. Order to vacate sale. Resale. The person making the sale
must, with all convenient speed, file with the surrogate, a report of the sale.
The surrogate must, upon notice, given in such a manner and for such a
length of time as he thinks proper, to each party who has appeared, inquire
into the proceedings ; and he may take oral testimony respecting the same.
If he is of opinion that the proceedings were unfair ; or that the sum bid
for the whole, or for a distinct parcel of real property separately sold, was
less than the value thereof at the time of sale, and that a sum exceeding
that bid at least ten per centum, exclusive of the expenses of a new sale,
may be obtained upon a resale ; he must make an order, vacating the sale,
either wholly, or with respect to the distinct parcel affected, and directing
another sale ; notice of which must be given, and the same must be con
ducted, as prescribed for the first sale.
§ 2776. Order to confirm sale. Conveyance thereupon. Where a
sale is not vacated, the surrogate must make an order confirming it ; and
where it is vacated as to a part only of the property sold, he must make an
order confirming it as to the residue. An order, confirming a sale, must
direct the person making the sale to execute the proper conveyances, upon
compliance, on the part of the purchaser or purchasers, with the terms of
the sale. The necessary conveyances must be executed by that person ac
cordingly, and must briefly refer to the decree, the order to execute it, and
the order of confirmation.
§ 2777. When conveyance not to affect purchaser or mortgagee
from heir, etc. A conveyance of real property, made pursuant to thi^, title,
does not affect, in any way, the title of a purchaser or mortgagee, in good
faith and for value, from an heir or devisee of the decedent, unless letters
were granted, by a surrogate's court having jurisdiction to grant them, upon
a petition therefore, presented within four years after his death.
§ 2778. Effect of conveyance in other cases. Except as prescribed
in the last section, a conveyance of real property, executed upon a sale
thereof, pursuant to this title, vests in the grantee all the estate, right, and
interest of the decedent in the real property so conveyed, at the time of his
death free from any claim of his widow for dower, which has not been
assigned to her ; but subject to all subsisting charges thereon by judgment,
mortgage, or otherwise, which existed at the time of his death. Where
dower has been assigned to the widow, the grantee takes the part of the
property to which her estate in dower attaches, subject thereto.
§ 2779. Contract for lands ; how sold. Where any of the property to
be sold consists of an interest, under a contract for the purchase of real
property, and any payment is yet to be made upon the contract, the sale
must be made subject to all payments, thereafter to become due thereupon ;
and it may, also, if the decree, or the order to execute the decree, so directs,
be made subject to all payments, previously due thereupon. If the sale is
subject to any payment, the terms of sale must specify the penalty and the
number of sureties, required in the bond to be given by the purchaser, as
prescribed in the next section, and must state to what payments the sale is
subject.
§ 2780. Id. ; purchaser's bond for payment thereupon Where a sale
is made subject to any payments, as specified in the last section, the pur
chaser must, before the sale is confirmed, execute to the executor or admin
istrator of the decedent, his bond, with sureties, for the benefit and indem
nity of the obligee and his successors, and also, the persons entitled to the
interest of the decedent in the lands so contracted for, in a penalty at least
twice the amount of all the payments, subject to which the sale is made ;
conditioned that the purchaser will punctually make all those payments,
and will fully indemnify the obligee and his successors, and each of the
persons so entitled, against all demands, charges, costs, and expenses, by
reason of any thing contained in the contract, or by reason of any other
obligation or liability of the decedent, on account of the purchase of the
property ; and against all other covenants and agreements of the decedent,
to and with the vendor of the property, in relation thereto.
§ 2781. Id. ; when interest in part of land may be sold. But where
an interest under a contract for the purchase of real property is liable to be
sold, as prescribed in this title, the decree, or the order for the execution
thereof, may direct a sale of the decedent's interest in a part only of the
property, if, in the opinion of the surrogate, such a sale ca;i be made advan
tageously to the estate of the decedent, and so that the purchase-money of
the part sold will satisfy and discharge all the payments, to be made ior all
the property contracted for, according to the contract. In such a case, the
purchaser is not required to execute a bond.
§ 2782. Id. ; effect of conveyance of decedent's interest A convey
ance of the decedent's interest in all the real property, held by him under a
contract for the purchase thereof, operates as an assignment of the contract
to the purchaser ; and vests in him, his heirs and assigns, all the right, title
and interest of all the persons entitled, at the time of the sale, in and to the
decedent's interest in the real property.
§ 2783. Id. ; effect of conveyance of part A conveyance of the dece
dent's interest in a part only of the real property, held under such a contract,
transfers to the purchaser all the decedent's right, title and interest in and
to the part so sold ; and all rights, which would be acquired thereto, by the
executor or administrator, or by any person entitled, at the time of the sale,
to the interest of the decedent therein, by perfecting the title to the prop
erty contracted for, pursuant to the contract. Upon fully complying with
the contract, the purchaser has the same right to enforce performance thereof,
with respect to the part conveyed to him ; and the executor or administra
tor, or his assignee, has the same right to enforce performance, with respect
to the residue, as the decedent would have had, if he was living. Any title
acquired by the executor or administrator, or his assignee, with respect to
the part not sold, must be held in trust for the use of the persons entitled to
the decedent's interest ; subject to the dower of the widow, if any.
§ 2784. Purchaser's title not affected by certain irregularities, etc.
The title of a purchaser in good faith, at a sale pursuant to a decree made as.
prescribed in this title, is not, nor is the validity of a mortgage or lease made
as prescribed in this title, in any way affected by any of the following omis
sions, errors, defects, or irregularities ; except so far as the same would affect
the title of a purchaser at a sale, made pursuant to the directions contained
in a judgment, rendered by the supreme court in an action:
1. Where a petition was presented, and the proper persons were duly cited,
and a decree directing a mortgage or lease, or a decree for a sale, and an
order directing the execution thereof was made, as prescribed in this title ;
and the decree, and the order, if any, were duly recorded, as prescribed in
article first of title first of this chapter : by any omission, error, defect, or
irregularity, occurring between the return of the citation, and the making
of the decree, or the order directing the execution of the decree.
2. Where an order, confirming a sale and directing a conveyance, has
been made, upon proof, satisfactory to the surrogate, that all the acts have
been done, which are required by law to be done, after the order directing
the execution of the decree, to authorize the surrogate to make such an order
of confirmation : by the actual omission to do such an act, or by any error,
defect, or irregularity in the same, or by any omission in the recitals of the
conveyance.
§ 2785. Id ; presumption where records have been removed. Where
the records of the surrogate's court have been heretofore, or are hereafter
removed from one place to another, in either the same or another county,
and twenty-five years have elapsed after a sale or other disposition of real
property, or of an interest in real property, as prescribed in this title, the
due appointment of a guardian for each infant party to the special proceed
ing must be presumed, and can be disproved only by affirmative record evi
dence to the contrary.
§ 2786. Proceeds to be paid into court Effect thereof. The pro
ceeds arising from a mortgage, lease, or sale, made as prescribed in this
title, must be paid into the surrogate's court by the executor, administrator,
or freeholder receiving the same. For that purpose, he must pay them to
the county treasurer, to the credit of the special proceeding, to be retained
by him as prescribed in section 2537 of this act. Upon payment being so
made, the heirs and devisees of the decedent, and their assigns, and all the
decedent's remaining real property, and interest in real property, held under
a contract for the purchase thereof, are exonerated from the debts established
by the decree, or established as prescribed in the next section but one, as far
as the proceeds so paid over are sufficient, after deducting the costs and
expenses allowed by the surrogate, to satisfy those debts.
§ 2787. Notice of distribution of proceeds. Immediately after the
payment into court of the proceeds of a mortgage, lease, or sale, as pre
scribed in the last section, the surrogate must cause notice of the time and
place of making the distribution, to be published, at least once in each of
the six weeks immediately preceding the same, in a newspaper published
in the county of the surrogate.
§ 2788. Heaiing ; proof of further debts. At the time and place desig
nated in the notice, or at the time and place to which the hearing is
adjourned, the surrogate must hear the allegations and proofs of the credi
tors, and of the persons interested in the estate, or in the application of the
proceeds, respecting any demands against the decedent, or for his funeral
expenses, then presented, which had not been established or rejected, before
making the decree. The provisions of this title, relating to contesting and
•establishing debts, and preserving the evidence thereof, Defore making the
decree, apply to the proceedings respecting any demand so presented. A
debt, which was established by the decree, may be again controverted, upon
the hearing provided for in this section, upon the discovery of new evidence
impeaching the same, and upon such a notice to the claimant as the surro
gate directs, but not otherwise.
§ 2789. When sale of unsold property may be directed. Where the
decree was executed with respect to a part only of the real property, or
interests in real property, specified therein, and the proceeds of the sale are
insufficient, after paying the costs and expenses thereof, to satisfy all the
debts established by the decree, together with the demands established as
prescribed in the last section, and all other sums payable out of the same, as
prescribed in this title, the surrogate must make an order, as prescribed in
section 2768 of this act, directing the execution of- the decree, with respect
to the remainder, or so much thereof as is necessary. The proceedings
thereupon and subsequent thereto are the same, as upon and subsequent to
the first order for the execution of the decree.
J) 2790. Proof of claims to surplus money. Upon the hearing, proed for in the last section but one, or upon the hearing after the further
execution of the decree, as prescribed in the last section, the surrogate must
also hear the allegations and proofs of any person, who claims a right to the
surplus money, or any part thereof. A claim so made may be contested by
any other person making a like claim.
§ 2791 . Decree for distribution The surrogate must, by a supplement
ary decree, made and recorded in like manner as the first decree, determine
the rights of the creditors and other persons interested, to share in the pro
ceeds, and direct the distribution thereof accordingly. Where the rights of
creditors are established, and there is a surplus, respecting the distribution
of which a contest arises, he may make a supplementary decree, providing
for the payment of the creditors only ; and reserving all questions, as to the
distribution of the surplus, to be settled by a second supplementary decree.
An appeal may be taken from either of the supplementary decrees, by any
person aggrieved thereby, as from the first decree ; except that it is not
necessary or proper, to make any creditor a party to an appeal from the
second supplementary decree.
§ 2792. Id. ; county treasurer to distribute. Each supplementary
decree must fix the sums to be paid or invested, as prescribed in the following sections of this title, as far as they can be then fixed. If any sum cannot
be then fixed, it may be fixed by the order of the surrogate subsequently
made. The surrogate must cause a certified copy of each supplementary
decree, and of each order, to be delivered to the county treasurer, who must
distribute, pay over, or invest the proceeds in his hands, as directed thereby.
§ 2793. Distribution ; how made. Money paid into the surrogate's
court, as prescribed in this title, must be distributed by the supplementary
decree in the following order :
1. The charges and expenses of the mortgage, lease, or sale, and of the
publication of the notice of distribution, and the other actual disbursements
attending the distribution, must first be paid.
2. Where an interest under a contract for the purchase of real property
was sold, all sums of money, which were due at the time of the sale, pursu
ant to the contract, and were not assumed by the purchaser, must next be
paid out of the proceeds of the sale of that interest.
3. Out of the remainder of the money, arising upon a sale, the claim of
dower, of the decedent's wife, if any, which has not been assigned to her,
must be satisfied by setting apart for investment, one-third of the gross pro
ceeds of the property to which her right of dower attaches ; unless, within
such a time, and upon such a notice to her, as the surrogate deems reason
able, she presents an instrument under seal, acknowledged or proved, and
certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county, whereby
she consents to accept, in lieu of her dower, a sum, to be ascertained by the
surrogate, equal to the value of her right of dower in the gross proceeds,
according to the principles applicable to life annuities ; and, if she presents
such an instrument, by paying to her such a sum.
4. Out of the remainder of the money, arising upon a mortgage, lease, or
sale, must be paid the costs of the special proceeding, awarded to the peti
tioner in the decree.
5. Out of the remainder of the money, must be paid the sum, if any, which
has been found to be due to the executor or administrator, upon a judicial
settlement of his account, after applying thereupon the proceeds of the per
sonal property. But this subdivision does not authorize the repayment, to
an executor or administrator, of any sum paid by him to a creditor of the
decedent, exceeding the proportion which that creditor would be entitled to
receive from the estate of the decedent, upon the distribution of all the assets
of the decedent, and the proceeds of property disposed of as prescribed in
this title.
6. Out of the remainder of the money, must be paid, in full, the reasonable
funeral expenses of the decedent, to the persons whose claims therefore were
established and recited as debts, in the first decree, and were not rejected
upon the second hearing.
7. Out of the remainder of the money, must be" paid, in full, the other
debts, which were established and recited in the first decree, and were not
rejected upon the second hearing ; or, if there is not enough for that pur
pose, they, or so much thereof as the money applicable thereto will pay, must
be paid in the order prescribed by law for payment of a decedent's debts by
an executor or administrator out of the personal assets, without giving pref
erence to rent, or to a specialty, or to any demand on account of an action
pending thereupon ; and paying debts not yet due, upon a rebate of legal
interest.
8. Out of the remainder of the money, must be paid, in like manner, the
debts first established by the supplementary decree, or so much thereof as
the remainder will pay.
9. If any surplus remains, it must be distributed among the heirs and
devisees of the decedent, or the persons claiming under them, and among
those persons who have presented and proved liens upon the interests, of
those heirs or devisees, or persons claiming under them, which were cut off
by the sale ; according to their respective rights and priorities, as estab
lished in the supplementary decree. But if the proceeds of any of the
property sold has been, or were to be, converted into personal property, pur
suant to a direction contained in the decedent's will, the surplus proceeds of
that part of the property must be paid to the person entitled thereto, by the
terms of the will.
§ 2794. Dower in lands under contract ; how computed. The claim
of dower of the decedent's wife, in real property held by the decedent, under
a contract for the purchase thereof, which must be satisfied, as prescribed in
subdivision third of the last section, extends only to the annual interest,
during her life, upon one-third of the balance remaining, after deducting
from the money arising upon the sale, all sums due from the decedent, at
the time of the sale, for the real property so contracted and sold.
§ 2795. Fund set apart for dower ; how invested, etc. The surrogate
must cause a sum set apart for a widow's dower, as prescribed in the last
two sections, to be invested by the county treasurer, under the direction of
the surrogate, in the public securities of the State, or of the United States,
or in permanent mortgage securities, bearing interest payable annually, or
oftener. The interest, or other income, must be paid by the county treasurer
to the widow, during her life. After her death, the county treasurer, under
the direction of the surrogate's court, manifested in an order duly entered,
must sell the public securities, or collect the sums loaned upon mortgage,
and distribute the proceeds less the costs and expenses, as prescribed in the
last section but one, for the distribution of the remainder of the money, after
satisfying the claim for dower.
§ 2796. Id. ; share belonging to infant, eta "Where surplus money is
distributable to an infant ; or where the interest in the property, represented
by it, consisted of a precedent estate, and a remainder or reversion ; the
decree must provide, as the judgment of the supreme court would provide,
in an analogous case, for the investment of the money in the public securi
ties of the State, or of the United States ; or for the loan thereof, secured
by bond, and by mortgage upon unincumbered real property within the
State, worth at least, exclusive of buildings thereupon, twice the sum lent;
and for the payment of the income, until the majority of the infant or the
determination of the temporary interest ; and then, for the payment of the
principal to the person or persons entitled thereto. Or where surplus money
is distributable to an in/ant, the decree may, in the discretion of the surrogate,
direct that the same be paid to his general guardian upon the latter giving such
additional security, if any, as the surrogate directs, or if it is one hundred dollars
or less, that it be deposited by the county treasurer in a savings bank or trust com
pany, designated by the surrogate, and that the interest or income thereof be applied
to the use of the infant until its majority. [Am'd Ch. 399 op 1882. See § 2.]
§ 2797. Effect upon proceedings under this title, of an action to
foreclose, etc. The commencement or pendency of an action or special
proceeding, having for its object the sale, either absolutely or contingently,
of property liable to be disposed of as prescribed in this title ; or the fore
closure by advertisement, of a mortgage thereupon ; or any proceeding to
sell such property, taken pursuant to a judgment, or by virtue of an execu
tion, does not affect any of the proceedings taken as prescribed by this title,
unless the surrogate so directs. After making a decree directing a mort
gage, lease or sale, the surrogate may, and, in a proper case, he must, stay
the order to execute the decree, with respect to the property affected by the
action, or special proceeding, or by the proceedings then pending, until the
determination thereof, or the further order of the surrogate with respect
thereto. If, in the course thereof, a sale of any of the property has been
made, before making the decree in the surrogate's court, the decree must
provide for the application of the surplus proceeds belonging to the decedent's
estate. If such a sale is made afterwards, the directions contained in the
decree, relating to the property sold, are deemed to relate to those proceeds.
§ 2798. Surplus money on foreclosure and other sales ; when paid
to surrogate. Where real property, or an interest in real property, liable to
be disposed of as prescribed in this title, is sold, in an action or a special
proceeding, specified in the last section, to satisfy a mortgage or other lien
thereupon, which accrued during the decedent's life-time ; and letters testa
mentary or letters of administration, upon the decedent's estate, were, within
four years before the sale, issued from a surrogate's court of the State, hav
ing jurisdiction to grant them ; the surplus money must be paid into the
surrogate's court from which the letters issued. If the sale was made pur
suant to the directions contained in a judgment or order, the surplus remain
ing after payment of all the liens upon the property, chargeable upon the
proceeds, which existed at the time of the decedent's death, must be so paid.
If the sale was made in any other manner, the surplus, exceeding the lien
to satisfy which the property was sold, and the costs and expenses, must,
within thirty days after the receipt of the money from which it accrues, be
so paid over by the person receiving that money. The receipt of the surro
gate, or the clerk of the surrogate's court, or the county treasurer, as the
case may be, is a sufficient discharge to,f,he person paying {he money.
§ 2799. Id ; how distributed Where money is paid into a surrogate's
court, as prescribed in the last section, and a petition for the disposition of
property, as prescribed in this title, is pending before him ; or is presented
at any time before the distribution of the money ; the money must be dis
tributed as if it was the proceeds of the decedent's real property, sold pur
suant to the decree. If such a petition is not pending or presented, or if a
decree for the disposition of the decedent's property is not made thereupon,
a verified petition, praying for a decree, directing the distribution of the
money among the persons entitled thereto, may be presented by any of those
persons. Each person, who would be entitled to share in the distribution of
the proceeds of a sale, must be cited to show cause, why such a decree should
not be made. Service of the citation may be made upon all the persons
designated therein, by publishing the same in two newspapers designated
as prescribed in article first of title second of this chapter, at least once in
each of the four successive weeks immediately preceding the return day
thereof, except that personal service must be made upon the husband, wife, heirs and
devisees of the decedent, and also upon every other person claiming under them, or
either of them, who resides in this state. Upon the return of the citation, the
rights and priorities of the persons interested must be established, and a
decree for distribution must be made, as if it was the proceeds of real prop
erty sold. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881.]
§ 2800. Securities and leases ; surrogate's duty respecting the same.
Except as otherwise specially prescribed in this title, a security taken or an
investment made, pursuant to any provision thereof, must be taken or made
in the name of the county treasurer, adding his official title, and his succes
sors in office. Each security so taken, ana all the papers connected there
with, or with such an investment, and each lease, taken as prescribed in this
title, must be immediately delivered to the surrogate for his approval ; and,
when approved by him, must be delivered to the county treasurer, who
must, from time to time, collect the money due thereupon, and apply it,
under the direction of the surrogate, as prescribed by law for that purpose,
or for the application of the money represented by the security.
§ 2801. Restitution, for assets subsequently discovered. Where a
decree has been made, for the application of the proceeds of real property
to the payment of the decedent's debts or funeral expenses, as prescribed in
this title, and assets, which should have been applied thereto, are afterwards
discovered ; or, for any other reason, money or other personal property of
the decedent, which should have been applied thereto, afterwards comes to
the hands of the executor, administrator, legatee, or next of kin ; the heir,
devisee, or other person aggrieved, may maintain an action to procure
re-imbursement therefrom.

Intermediate accounting ; when voluntary.
Id. ; when compulsory.
Petition to compel payment of debt, legacy, etc
Id ; proceedings upon return of citation.
Id. ; other persons interested to be cited.
When surrogate may compel judicial settlement.
Who may apply thei-efor.
Proceedings upon return of citation.
Judicial settlement on petition of trustee.
Certain provisions of title fourth made applicable.
Surrogate to determine controversies j proportion may be retained.
Effect of decree.
Resignation of trust.
Petition for security from testamentary trustee.
Security ; how given.
Removal of testamentary trustee.
Appointment of successor.
Proceedings where testamentary trustee is also executor or administrator.
Application of this title.

§ 2802. Intermediate accounting ; when voluntary. A testamentary
trustee may, at any time, file an intermediate account, and the vouchers im
support of it, with the surrogate having jurisdiction of the estate.
§ 2803. Id ; when compulsory. Upon the petition of a person inter
ested, absolutely or contingently, in the estate or fund in the hands of a
testamentary trustee, or in the application thereof, or of the income or other
proceeds thereof, the surrogate may, in his discretion, make, at any time,
an order requiring a testamentary trustee to render an intermediate account.
§ 2804. Petition to compel payment of debt, legacy, eta Where a
person is entitled, by the terms of the will, to the payment of money, or the
delivery of personal property, by a testamentary trustee, he may present to
the_ surrogate's co>irt a written petition, d ;ly verified, setting forth the facts
which entitle him to the payment or delivery, and praying for a decree,
directing payment or delivery accordingly; and that the testamentary
trustee may be cited to show cause, why such a decree should not be made.
If the petitioner is so entitled, only upon the happening of a contingency, or
after the expiration of a certain time, he must show in his petition, that hia
right to the money or other property has become absolute. Upon the pre
sentation of the petition, the surrogate must issue a citation accordingly.
§ 2805. Id. ; proceedings upon return of citation. Upon the return of
a citation, issued as prescribed in the last section, if the testamentary trustee
files a written answer, duly verified, setting forth facts, which show that it is
doubtful, whether the petitioner's claim is valid and legal, and denying its
validity or legality, absolutely or upon his information and belief, a decree
must be made, dismissing the petition, without prejudice to an action in
behalf of the petitioner for an accounting; otherwise, the surrogate must
hear the allegations and proofs of the parties, and must make such a decree
in the premises, as justice requires. In a proper case, the decree may
require the testamentary trustee, who is unable to deliver personal property
to which the petitioner is entitled, to pay the value thereof.
§ 2806. Id ; other persons interested to be cited Where it appears,
upon the presentation of a petition as prescribed in the last section but one,
that a decree, made pursuant to the prayer thereof, might affect the rights
of other persons, with respect to the estate or fund held by the testamentary
trustee, the citation must also be directed to those persons. Where that fact
appears, upon the return of the citation, or upon the hearing, and it also
appears presumptively that the petitioner is entitled to a decree, all the
persons, whose rights may be so affected, must be brought in by a supple
mental citation, before a decree is made.
§ 2807. When surrogate may compel judicial settlement. In either
of the following cases, the surrogate's court may, from time to time, compel
a judicial settlement of the account of a testamentary trustee :
1. Where one year has expired, since the will was admitted to probate.
2. Where the trustee has been removed, or for any other reason, his
powers have ceased.
3. Where the trusts, or one or more distinct and separate trusts, created
by the terms of the will, have been executed, or are ready to be executed ;
so that the persons beneficially interested are, by the terms of the will, or by
operation of law, entitled to receive any money or other personal property
from the trustee.
§2808. Who may apply therefore. A petition, praying for a judicial
settlement, as prescribed in the last section, and that the testamentary trus
tee may be cited to show cause, why he should not render and settle his
account, may be presented, by any person beneficially interested in the
execution of any of the trusts ; or by any person in behalf of an infant so
beneficially interested ; or by a surety in the bond of the testamentary trus
tee, given as prescribed in this title, or by the legal representative of such a
surety. Upon the presentation of the petition, the surrogate must issue a
citation accordingly, unless the account of the testamentary trustee has been
judicially settled, within a year before the petition is presented ; in which
case, the surrogate may, in his discretion, entertain, or decline to entertain,
the petition.
§ 2809. Proceedings upon return of citation. Sections 2727 and 2728
of this act apply to the proceedings upon a citation, issued as prescribed in
the last section, and to the testamentary trustee to whom the citation is
directed.
§ 2810. Judicial settlement on petition of trustee. When one year
has expired since the probate of the will, or when the trusts, or one or more
distinct and separate trusts, created by the will, have been, or are ready to
be, fully executed, a testamentary trustee may present to the surrogate's
court a petition, duly verified, setting forth the facts, and praying that his
account may be judicially settled ; and that all the persons who are entitled,
absolutely or contingently, by the terms of the will, or by operation of law,
to share in the fund, or in the proceeds of property held by the petitioner, as
a part of his trust, may be cited to attend the settlement. Thereupon the
surrogate must issue a citation accordingly. Sections 2729, 2730, and 2731
of this act apply to the proceedings upon the return of a citation, issued as
prescribed in this section, and to the testamentary trustee whose account is
to be settled. Any person, although not named in the citation, who is bene
ficially interested in the estate or fund which came to the petitioner's hands,
or in the proceeds thereof, or in the application of that estate or fund, or of
the proceeds thereof, is entitled to appear upon the hearing, and thus make
himself a party to the special proceeding.
§ 2811. Certain provisions of title fourth made applicable. Sections
27:54 to 2737, both inclusive, sections 2739 to 2741, both inclusive, and sections
2743, 2744, and 2746 of this act, apply to and regulate the like matters,
where a testamentary trustee accounts, as prescribed in this title ; except
as otherwise prescribed in the next two sections. To each account, filed
as prescribed in this title, must be annexed an affidavit, in the form pre
scribed in section 2733 of this act, for the affidavit to be annexed to the
account of an executor or administrator ; except that the expression, " the
trust created by the will," with such other description of the trust, as is
necessary to identify it, must be substituted in place of the words, " the
estate of the decedent."
§ 2812. Surrogate to determine controversies ; proportion may be
retained. Upon a judicial settlement of the account of a testamentary
trustee, a controversy which arises, respecting the right of a party to share
in the money or other personal property to be paid, distributed, or delivered
over, must be determined in the same manner as other issues are determined.
If such a controversy remains undetermined, after the determination of all
other questions upon which the distribution of the fund, or the delivery of
the personal property depends, the decree must direct that a sum, sufficient
to satisfy the claim in controversy, or the proportion to which it is entitled,
together with the probable amount of the interest and costs, and, if the case so
requires, that the personal property in controversy, be retained in the hands
of the accounting party ; or that the money be deposited in a safe bank or
trust company, subject to the surrogate's order, for the purpose of being
applied to the payment of the claim, when it is due, recovered, or settled ;
and that so much thereof, as is not needed for that purpose, be afterwards
distributed according to law.
§ 2813. Effect of decree. A decree, made upon a judicial settlement
of the account of a testamentary trustee, as prescribed in this title, or the
judgment rendered upon an appeal from such a decree, has the same force,
as a judgment of the supreme court to the same effect, as against each
party who was duly cited or appeared, and every person who would be
bound by such a judgment, rendered in an action between the same parties.
§ 2814. Resignation of trust A testamentary trustee may, at any time,
present to the surrogate's court a written petition, duly verified, praying
that his account may be judicially settled ; that a decree may thereupon be
made, allowing him to resign his trust, and discharging him accordingly ;
and that all persons who are entitled, absolutely or contingently, by the
terms of the will or by operation of law, to share in the fund or estate, or
the proceeds of any property held by the petitioner as a part of his trust,
may be cited to show cause, why such a decree should not be made. The
petition must set forth the facts upon which the application is founded; and
it must, in all other respects, conform to a petition presented for a judicial
settlement of the account of a testamentary trustee, as prescribed in this title.
The surrogate may, in his discretion, entertain or decline to entertain the
petition. If he entertains it, the proceedings must be, in all respects, the
same as upon a petition for a judicial settlement of the petitioner's account,
except that, upon the hearing, the surrogate must first determine, whether
sufficient reasons exist for granting the prayer of the petition, and, if he
determines that they exist, he must make an order accordingly, and allow
ing the petitioner to account, for the purpose of being discharged. Upon
the petitioner's fully accounting, and paying all money belonging to the
trust, and delivering all books, papers, and other property of the trust, in his
hands, either into the surrogate's court, or as the surrogate directs, a decree
may be made, accepting his resignation, and discharging him accordingly.
§ 2815. Petition for security from testamentary trustee. Any per
son, beneficially interested in the execution of the trust, may present to the
surrogate's court a written petition, duly verified, setting forth, either upon
his knowledge, or upon his information and belief, any fact, respecting a
testamentary trustee, the existence of which, if it was interposed as an
objection to granting letters testamentary to a person named as executor in
a will, would make it necessary for such a person to give security, in order
to entitle himself to letters ; and praying for a decree, directing the testa
mentary trustee to give security for the performance of his trust ; and that
he may be cited to show cause, why such a decree should not be made.
Upon the presentation of such a petition, the surrogate, must issue a citation
accordingly. Upon the return of the citation, a decree, requiring the testa
mentary trustee to give such security, may be made, in a case where a per
son so named as executor can entitle himself to letters testamentary, only by
giving a bond ; but not otherwise.
§ 2816. Security ; how given. The security, given as prescribed in the
last section, must be a bond to the same effect, and in the same form, as an
executor's bond. Each provision of this chapter, applicable to the bond of
an executor, or to the rights, duties, and liabilities of the parties thereto, or
any of them, including the release of the sureties, and the giving of a new
bond, apply to the bond so given, and to the parties thereto.
§ 2817. Removal of testamentary trustee. In either of the following
cases, a person beneficially interested in the execution of the trust, may pre
sent to the surrogate's court, a written petition, duly verified, setting forth
the facts, and praying for a decree removing a testamentary trustee from
his trust ; and that he may be cited to show cause why such a decree should
not be made :
1. Where, if he was named in a will as executor, letters testamentary
would not be issued to him, by reason of his personal disqualification or
incompetency.
2. Where, by reason of his having wasted or improperly applied the money
or other property in his charge, or invested money in securities unauthorized
by law, or otherwise improvidently managed or injured the property com
mitted to his charge, or by reason of other misconduct in the execution of his
trust, or dishonesty, drunkenness, improvidence, or want of understanding,
he is unfit for the due execution of his trust.
3. Where he has failed to give a bond, as required by a decree, made as
prescribed in the last two sections ; or has willfully refused, or without good
cause neglected to obey, a direction of the surrogate, contained in any other
decree, or in an order, made as prescribed in this title ; or any provision of
law relating to the discharge of his duty.
§ 2818. Appointment of successor. Where a sole testamentary trus
tee dies, or becomes a lunatic, or is, by a decree of the surrogate's court,
removed or allowed to resign, and the trust has not been fully executed, the
same court may appoint his successor; unless such an appointment would
contravene the express terms of the will. Where a decree removing the
trustee, or discharging him upon his resignation, does not designate his suc
cessor ; or the person designated therein does not qualify ; the successor
must be appointed and must qualify, as prescribed by law for the appoint
ment and qualification of an administrator with the will annexed.
§ 2819. Proceedings where testamentary trustee is also executor or
administrator. Where the same person is a testamentary trustee, and also
the executor of the will, or an administrator upon the same estate, proceedings
taken by or against him, as prescribed in this title, do not affect him as
executor or administrator, or the creditors of, or persons interested in, the
general estate, except in one of the following cases :
1. Where he presents a petition, praying for the revocation of his letters,
he may, also, in the same petition, set forth the facts, upon showing which
he would be allowed to resign as testamentary trustee ; and may thereupon
pray for a decree allowing him so to resign, and for a citation accordingly.
2. Where a person presents a petition, praying for the revocation of letters
issued to an executor or administrator ; and any of the facts set forth in the
petition are made, by the provisions of this title, sufficient to entitle the same
person to present a petition praying for the removal of a testamentary trus
tee; the petitioner may pray for a decree removing the person complained
of in both capacities, and for a citation accordingly.
In either case, proceedings upon the petition for the resignation or removal,
as the case requires, of the testamentary trustee, and for the judicial settle
ment of his account, may be taken, as prescribed in this title, in connection
with, or separately from, the like proceedings upon the petition for the revo
cation of the letters, as the surrogate directs.
§ 2820. Application of this title. The provisions of this title apply to
to a trust created by the will of a resident of the State, or relating to real
property, situated within the State, without regard to the residence of the
trustee, or the time of the execution of the will.

Power of court to appoint guardians.
Petition for appointment, by infant over fourteen.
Contents of petition ; citation.
Id. ; where petitioner is a married woman.
Appointment of guardian.
Guardian to be nominated by infant.
Appointment of temporary guardian for infant under fourteen.
Term of office of temporary guardian.
Inquiry as to value of property.
Qualification of guardian of property.
Id. ; of guardian of person.
When letters may be revoked for misconduct, etc.
Citation ; hearing ; decree.
Suspension of guardian ; effect thereof.
Application by guardian for revocation of letters.
Proceedings thereupon.
Ward or new guardian may require accounting.
Application for ancillary letters to foreign guardian.
Proceedings thereupon.
Effect of such letters.
Application of the last section to former guardians.

§ 2821. Power of court to appoint guardians. The surrogate's court
lias the like power and authority to appoint a general guardian, of the per
son or of the property, or both, of an infant, which the chancellor had, on
the thirty-first day of December, eighteen hundred and forty-six. It has
also power and authority to appoint a general guardian, of the person or of
the property, or both, of an infant whose father or mother is living, and to
appoint a general guardian of the property only, of an infant married
woman. Such power and authority must be exercised in like manner as
they were exercised by the court of chancery, subject to the provisions of
this act. The same person may be appointed guardian of an infant in both
capacities ; or the guardianship of the person and of the property may be
committed to different persons.
§ 2822. Petition for appointment, by infant over fourteen. In either
of the following cases, an infant, of the age of fourteen years or upwards,
may present, to the surrogate's court of the county in which he resides ;
or, if he is not a resident of the State, to the surrogate's court of the county
in which any of his property, real or personal, is situated ; a written petition,
duly verified, setting forth the facts upon which the jurisdiction of the court
depends, and praying for a decree appointing a general guardian, either
of his person, or of his property, or both, as the case requires ; and, if neces
sary, that the persons, entitled by law to be cited upon such an application,
may be cited to show cause, why such a decree should not be made :
1. Where such a general guardian has not been duly appointed, either
by a court of competent jurisdiction of tlu State, or by the will or deed of
his father or mother, admitted to probate or authenticated, and recorded, as
prescribed in section 2851 of this act.
2. Where a general guardian so appointed, has died, become incompetent
or disqualified ; or refuses to act ; or has been removed ; or where his term
of office has expired.
Where the petitioner is a non-resident married woman, and the petition
relates to personal property only, it must affirmatively show that the prop
erty is not subject to the control or disposition of her husband, by the law
of the petitioner's residence.
§ 2823. Contents of petition ; citation. A petition, presented as pre
scribed in the last section, must also state whether or not the father and
mother of the petitioner are known to be living. If either of them is known
to be living, and the petition does not pray that the father, or, if he is dead,
that the mother, may be appointed the general guardian, it must set forth
the circumstances which render the appointment of another person expe
dient; and must pray that the father, or if he is dead, that the mother, of
the petitioner may be cited to show cause, why the decree should not be
made. A citation, issued to the father of the petitioner, must be served at
least ten days before it is returnable. Where the case is within subdivision
second of the last section, the petition must pray that the person formerly
appointed general guardian may be cited, unless it is shown that he is dead.
The surrogate must inquire, and ascertain as far as practicable, what rela
tives of the infant reside in his county ; and he may, in his discretion, cite
any relative or class of relatives of the infant, residing in that county or
elsewhere, to show cause why the prayer of the petition should not be granted.
§ 2824. Id. ; where petitioner is a married woman. The last section
applies, where the petitioner is a married woman ; except that her husband
must also be cited, and that the surrogate may, in his discretion, make a
decree, appointing a guardian of her property, without citing her father or
her mother.
§ 2825. Appointment of guardian. Upon the return of the citation, the
surrogate must make such a decree in the premises, as justice requires. He
may, in his discretion, hear allegations and proofs from a person not a party.
Where a citation is not issued, the surrogate must, upon the presentation of
the petition, inquire into the circumstances. For the purpose of such an
inquiry, or of an inquiry into the amount of security to be required of the
fuardian, he may issue a subpoena, requiring any person to attend before
im, to testify respecting any matter involved therein. If he is satisfied
that the allegations of the petition are true in fact, and that the interests of
the infant will be promoted by the appointment of a general guardian, either
of his person or of his property, he must make a decree accordingly, except
that a guardian of the person of a married woman shall not be appointed.
In a proper case, he may appoint a general guardian in one capacity, with
out a citation ; and issue a citation to show cause against the appointment
of a general guardian, in the other capacity.
§ 2826. Guardian to be nominated by infant. A guardian appointed
upon the application of an infaut of the age of fourteen years, or upwards,
as prescribed in this article, must be nominated by the infant, subject to the
approval of the surrogate.
§ 2827. Appointment of temporary guardian for infant under four
teen. A relative of an infant under fourteen years of age, or any other per
son in behalf of such an infant, may present to the surrogate's court of the
county in which the infant resides ; or, if he is not a resident of the State,
to the surrogate's court of the county in which any of the infant's property,
real or personal is situated ; a written petition, duly verified, setting forth
the facts, upon which the jurisdiction of the court depends, and praying for
a decree appointing a guardian of the person, or of the property, or both, of
the infant, to serve until the infant attains the age of fourteen years, and a
successor to the guardian is appointed. The cases in which such a guardian
may be appointed, the contents of the petition, and the proceedings there
upon, are the same, as prescribed in the foregoing sections of this article,
with respect to the appointment of a general guardian, upon the petition of
an infant of the age of fourteen years or upwards ; except that the surrogate
must nominate, as well as appoint, the temporary guardian.
§ 2828. Term of office of temporary guardian. The term of office of
a guardian, appointed as prescribed in the last section, expires when the
infant attains the age of fourteen years. But after the infant attains that
age, the person so appointed continues to retain all the powers and authority
and is subject to all the duties and liabilities, of a guardian of the person,
or of the property, or both, pursuant to his letters ; until his successor is
appointed and has qualified, or until his letters are revoked, for some other
cause, by the decree of the surrogate's court ; and his sureties are responsi
ble accordingly.
§ 2829. Inquiry as to value of property. Where a general guardian
of the property of an infant is appointed, as prescribed in this article, the
surrogate must inquire into the infant's circumstances, and must ascertain,
as nearly as practicable, the value of his personal property, and of the rents
and profits of his real property.
8, 2830. Qualification of guardian of property. Before letters of guar
dianship of an infant's property are issued by the surrogate's court, the per
son appointed must, besides taking an official oath, as prescribed by law,
execute to the infant, and file with the surrogate his bond, with at least two
sureties in a penalty, fixed by the surrogate, not less than twice the value
of the personal property, and of the rents and profits of the real property ;
conditioned that the guardian will, in all things, faithfully discharge the
trust reposed in him, and obey all lawful directions of the surrogate touch
ing the trust ; and that he will.in all respects, render a just and true account
of all money and other property received by him, and of the application
thereof, and of his guardianship, whenever he is required so to do, by a
court of competent jurisdiction ; but the surrogate may, in his discretion, limit
the amount of the bond to not less than twice the value of the personal property and
of the rents and profits of the real property for the term of three years. [Am'd
Ch. 535 op 1881.]
§ 2831. Id. ; of guardian of person. Before letters of guardianship of
an infant's person are issued by the surrogate's court, the person appointed
must take the official oath, as prescribed by law. The surrogate may also
require him to execute to the infant a bond, in a penalty fixed by the surro
gate, and with or without sureties, as to the surrogate seems proper ; con
ditioned that the guardian will in all things faithfully discharge the trust
reposed in him, and duly account for all money or other property which may
come to his hands, as directed by the surrogate's court.
8 2832. When letters may be revoked for misconduct, etc. In
either of the following cases, the ward, or any relative or other person in
his behalf, or the surety of a guardian, may, at any time, present to the .
surrogate's court, a written petition, duly verified, setting forth the facts, and
praying for a decree, revoking letters of guardianship, either of the person,
or of the property, or both ; and that the guardian complained of may be
cited to show cause, why such a decree should not be made :
1. Where the guardian is disqualified by law, or is, for any reason, incom
petent to fulfill his trust.
2. Where, by reason of his having wasted or improperly applied the
money or other property in his charge, or invested money in securities
unauthorized by law, or otherwise improvidently managed or injured the
real or personal property of the ward, or by reason of other misconduct in
the execution of his office, or his dishonesty, drunkenness, improvidence, or
"want of understanding, he is unfit for the due execution of his office.
3. Where he has willfully refused, or, without good cause, neglected, to
obey any lawful direction of the surrogate, contained in a decree or an
order ; or any provision of law, relating to the discharge of his duty.
4. Where the grant of letters to him was obtained by a false suggestion
of a material fact.
5. Where he has removed, or is about to remove, from the State.
6. In the case of the guardian of the person, where the infant's welfare
will be promoted by the appointment of another guardian.
§ 2833. Citation ; hearing ; decree. Upon the presentation of a peti
tion, as prescribed in the last section, the surrogate must inquire into the
matter ; and for that purpose, he may issue a subpoena to any person requir
ing him to attend and testify in the premises. If the surrogate is satisfied
that there is probable cause to believe, that the allegations of the petition
are true, he must issue a citation to the guardian complained of; and, upon
the return thereof, if the material allegations of the petition are established,
he must make a decree, revoking the guardian's letters accordingly ; except
that, where the case is within subdivision third or fourth of the last section,
he must dismiss the proceedings, under the like circumstances and upon the
like terms, as prescribed in sections 2686 and 2687 of this act, where a
similar complaint is made against an executor or administrator.
§ 2834. Suspension of guardian; effect thereof Upon issuing a cita
tion as prescribed in the last section, the surrogate may, in his discretion,
make an order suspending the guardian, wholly or partly, from the exercise
of his powers and authority, during the pendency of the special proceeding.
A certified copy of an order so made must accompany the citation, and be
served therewith ; but, from the time when it is made, the order is binding
upon the guardian and upon all other persons, without service thereof, sub
ject to the exceptions and limitations prescribed in sections 2603 and 2604
of this act, with respect to a decree revoking letters.
§ 2835. Application by guardian for revocation of letters. A guard
ian, appointed as prescribed in this title, may, at any time present to the
surrogate's court a written petition, duly verified, setting forth the facts
upon which the application is founded, and praying that his account may be
judicially settled; that a decree may thereupon be made, revoking his
letters, and discharging him accordingly ; and that the ward may be cited
to show cause, why such a decree should not be made. The surrogate may,
in his discretion, entertain, or decline to entertain, the application.
§ 2836. Proceedings thereupon If the surrogate entertains an appli
cation, made as prescribed in the- last section, he must issue a citation, as
prayed for in the petition ; and he may also require notice of the applica
tion to be given to such other persons, and in such a manner, as he deems
proper. Upon the return of the citation, a guardian ad litem for the ward
must be appointed ; and the surrogate may also, in his discretion, allow any
person to appear and contest the application, in the interest of the ward.
Upon the hearing, the surrogate must first determine whether sufficient reasons
exist for granting the prayer of the petition. If he determines that they
exist, and that the interests of the ward will not be prejudiced by the resigUpon his fully accounting, and paying all money which is found to be due
from him to the ward, and delivering all hooks, papers and other property
of the ward in his hands, either in the surrogate s court, or in such a manner
as the surrogate directs, a decree may be made, revoking the petitioner's
letters, and discharging him accordingly.
§ 2837. Ward or new guardian may require accounting. Notwith
standing the discharge of a guardian, as prescribed in the last section, his
successor or the ward may compel a judicial settlement of his account, as
prescribed in article second of this title, in the same manner and with like
effect, as if the decree discharging him had not been made. With respect
to all matters connected with his trust, his sureties continue to be liable,
until his account is judicially settled accordingly.
§ 2838. Application for ancillary letters to foreign guardian. Where
an infant, who resides without the State and within the United States, is
entitled to property within the State, or to maintain an action in any court
thereof, a general guardian of his property, who has been appointed by a
court of competent jurisdiction, within the State or territory where the ward
resides, and has there given security, in at least twice the value of the
personal property, and of the rents and profits of the real property, of the
ward, may present, to the surrogate's court having jurisdiction, a written
petition, duly verified, setting forth the facts, and praying for ancillary letters
of guardianship accordingly. The petition must be accompanied with
exemplified copies of the records and other papers, showing that he has been
so appointed, and has given the security required in this section, which must
be authenticated in the mode prescribed in article seventh of title third of this
chapter, for the authentication of records and papers, upon an application for
ancillary letters testamentary, or ancillary letters of administration.
§ 2839. Proceedings thereupon. Where the surrogate is satisfied, upon
the papers presented, as prescribed in the last section, that the case is within
that section, and that it will be for the ward's interest, that ancillary letters
of guardianship should be issued to the petitioner, he may make a decree,
admitting the exemplified copies of the foreign letters to be recorded, and
granting ancillary letters accordingly. Such a decree may be made without
a citation ; or the surrogate may cite such persons as he thinks proper, to
show cause, why the prayer of the petition should not be granted. But
before the ancillary letters are issued, the surrogate must inquire, whether
any debts are due from the ward's estate to residents of the State ; and if so,
he must require payment thereof.
§ 2840. Effect of such letters. Ancillary letters are issued, as prescribed
in the last section, without security, and without an oath of office. They
authorize the person, to whom they are issued, to demand and receive the
personal property, and the rents and profits of the real property of the ward;
to dispose of them in like manner as a guardian of the property, appointed
as prescribed in this article ; to remove them from the State ; and to maintain
or defend any action or special proceeding in the ward's behalf. But they
do not authorize him to receive, from a resident guardian, executor, or
administrator, or from a testamentary trustee, subject to the jurisdiction of
a surrogate's court, money or other property, belonging to the ward, in a case
where letters have been issued to a guardian of the infant's property, from a
infant was a resident of that county ; except by the special direction, made
upon good cause shown, of the surrogate's court from which the principal
letters were issued ; or unless the principal letters have been duly revoked.
§ 2841. Application of the last section to former guardians. The
last section applies to letters granted, before this chapter takes effect, by a
surrogate's court of the State, to a guardian appointed by a court of another
State, or a territory of the United States, upon presentation of an exemplified
transcript of the record of his appointment.
Guardian to file annual inventory and account.
Affidavit to be annexed thereto.
Annual examination of guardian's accounts.
Proceedings, when account defective, etc.
Surrogate may direct as to infant's maintenance.
When judicial settlement of guardian's account compelled.
Id. ; as to guardian of person.
When guardian may compel judicial settlement.
Citation; proceedings thereupon.

§ 2842. Guardian to file annual inventory and account. A general
guardian of an infant's property, appointed by a surrogate's court, must, in
the month of January of each year, as long as any of the infant's property,
or of the proceeds thereof, remains under iiis control, file in the surrogate's
court the following papers :
1. An inventory, containing a full and true statement and description of
each article or item of personal property of his ward, received by him, since
his appointment, or since the filing of the last annual inventory, as the case
requires ; the value of each article or item so received ; a list of the articles
or items, remaining in his hands ; a statement of the manner in which he
has disposed of each article or item, not remaining in his hands ; and a full
description of the amount and nature of each investment of money, made by
him.
2. A full and true account, in form of debtor and creditor, of all his receipts
and disbursements of money, during the preceding year ; in which he must
charge himself with any balance remaining in his hands, when the last
account was rendered, and must distinctly state the amount of the balance
remaining in his hands, at the conclusion of the year, to be charged to him
in the next year's account.
§ 2843. Affidavit to be annexed thereto. With the inventory and
account, filed as prescribed in the last section, must be filed an affidavit,
which must be made by the guardian, unless, for good cause shown in the
affidavit, the surrogate permits the same to be made by an agent or attorney,
who is cognizant of the facts. The affidavit must state, in substance, that
the inventory and account contain, to the best of the affiant's knowledge and
belief, a full and true statement of all the guardian's receipts and disburse
ments, on account of the ward ; and of all money and other personal property
of the ward, which have come to the hands of the guardian, or have been
received by any other person by his order or authority, or for his use, since
his appointment, or since the filing of the last annual inventory and account,
as the case requires ; and of the value of all such property ; together with
a full and true statement and account of the manner, in which he has
disposed of the same, and of all the property remaining in his hands, at the
time of filing the inventory and account ; and a full and true description of
the amount, and nature of each investment made by him, since his appoint
ment, or since the filing of the last annual inventory, and account, as the
case requires ; and that he does not know of any error or omission in the
inventory or account, to the prejudice of the ward. The surrogate must
annex a copy of this and the last section, to all letters of guardianship of the
property of an infant issued from his court.
§ 2844. Annual examination of guardian's accounts. In the month
of February of each year and thereafter until completed, the surrogate must,
for the purposes specified in the next section, examine or cause to be
examined, under his direction, all inventories and accounts of guardians
filed since the first day of February of the preceding year. The exam
ination may be made by the clerk of the surrogate's court, or by a person
specially appointed by the surrogate to make it, who must, before he
enters upon the examination, subscribe and take before the surrogate, and
file with the clerk of the surrogate's court, an oath faithfully to execute
his duties, and to make a true report to the surrogate. Where the surro
gate seasonably certifies in writing to the board of supervisors, or, in the
county of New York, to the board of aldermen, that the examination
required by this section cannot be made by him, or by the clerk of the
surrogate's court, or by any clerk employed in his office and paid by the
county, the board must provide for the compensation of a suitable person to
make the examination. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881.]
§ 2845. Proceedings, when account defective, etc. If it appears to
the surrogate, upon an examination made as prescribed in the last section,
that a general guardian of an infant's property, appointed by letters issued
from his court, has omitted to file his annual inventory or account, or the
affidavit relating thereto, as prescribed in the last section but one ; or if the
surrogate is of the opinion, that the interest of the ward requires that the
guardian should render a more full or satisfactory inventory or account ; the
surrogate must make an order, requiring the guardian to supply the defi
ciency, and also, in his discretion, requiring the guardian personally to pay
the expense of serving the order upon him. Where the guardian fails to
comply with such an order, within three months after it is made ; or where
the surrogate has reason to believe that sufficient cause exists for the guard
ian's removal, the surrogate may, in his discretion, appoint a fit and proper
person special guardian of the ward, for the purpose of filing a petition in
his behalf, for the removal of the guardian, and prosecuting the necessary
proceedings for that purpose.
§ 2846. Surrogate may direct as to infant's maintenance. Upon the
petition of the general guardian of an infant's person or property ; or of the
infant ; or of any relative or other person in his behalf ; the surrogate, upon
notice to such persons, if any, as he thinks proper to notify, may make an
order, directing the application, by the guardian of the infant's property, to
the support and education of the infant, of such a sum as to the surrogate
seems proper, out of the income of the infant's property; or, where the
income is inadequate for that purpose, out of the principal.
§ 2847. When judicial settlement of guardian's account com
pelled. A written petition, duly verified, praying for the judicial settle
ment of the account of a general guardian of an infant's property, and that
he may be cited to attend the settlement thereof, may be presented to the
surrogate's court, in either of the following cases :
1. By the ward, after he has attained his majority.
2. By the executor or administrator of a ward, who has died.
3. By the guardian's successor, including a guardian appointed after the
reversal of a decree, appointing the person so required to account.
§ 2848. Id. ; as to guardian of person A petition, for the judicial
settlement of the account of a general guardian of an infant's person, may
be presented, as prescribed in the last section, or by the general guardian of
the infant's property; but upon the presentation thereof, proof must be
made, to the surrogate's satisfaction, that the guardian so required to account
has received money or property of the ward, for which he has not accounted;
or which he has not paid or delivered to the general guardian of the infant's
property ; and a guardian of the estate only of a minor shall be, for the purposes
of thi3 chapter, deemed a general guardian. [Am'd Ch. 535 op 1881.]
§ 2849. When guardian may compel judicial settlement. A guardian
may present to the surrogate's court a written petition, duly verified, pray
ing for a judicial settlement of his account, and a discharge from his duties
and liabilities, in any case, where a petition for a judicial settlement of his
account may be presented by any other person, as prescribed in either of the
last two sections. The petition must pray that the person, who might have
so presented a petition, may be cited to attend the settlement.
§ 2850. Citation ; proceedings thereupon. Upon the presentation of
a petition, as prescribed in either of the last three sections, the surrogate
must issue a citation accordingly. Section 2727, sections 2733 to 2738, both
inclusive, and section 2741, of this act, apply to a guardian accounting, as
prescribed in this article, and regulate the proceedings upon such an account
ing. The accounting party must annex to every account produced and filed
by him, an affidavit, in the form prescribed in this article, for the affidavit
to be annexed by him to his annual inventory and account. A guardian,
designated in this title, is entitled to the same compensation as an executor or
administrator. [Am'd Ch. 400 of 1882.]
§ 2851. Will or deed containing appointment to be proved, etc., and
recorded. A person shall not exercise, within the State, any power or
authority, as guardian of the person or property of an infant, by virtue of
an appointment contained in the will of the infant's father or mother, being
a resident of the State, and dying after this chapter takes effect, unless the
will has been duly admitted to probate, and recorded in the proper surro
gate's court, and letters of guardianship have been issued to him thereupon ;
or by virtue of an appointment contained in a deed of the infant's father or
mother, being a resident of the State, executed after this chapter takes
effect, unless the deed has been acknowledged or proved, and certified, so as
to entitle it to be recorded, and has been recorded in the office for recording
deeds in the county, in which the person making the appointment resided,
at the time of the execution thereof. Where a deed containing such an
appointment is not recorded, within three months after the death of the
grantor, the person appointed is presumed to have renounced the appoint
ment; aud if a guardian is afterwards duly appointed by a surrogate's
court, the presumption is conclusive.
§ 2852. Testamentary guardian ; qualification, letters, etc. Where
a will, containing the appointment ef a guardian, is admitted to probate,
the person appointed guardian must, -within thirty days thereafter, qualify
as prescribed in section 2594 of this act ; otherwise he is deemed to have
renounced the appointment. But the surrogate may extend the time so to
qualify, upon good cause shown, for not more than three months. And any
person interested in the estate may, before letters of guardianship are issued,
file an affidavit setting forth with respect to the guardian so appointed, any
fact which is made by law an objection to the issuing of letters testamentary
to an executor. Sections 2636 to 2638 of this act, both inclusive, apply to
such an affidavit and to the proceedings thereupon. A person appointed
guardian by will may, at any time before he qualifies, renounce the appoint
ment by a written instrument, under his hand, filed in the surrogate's
office.
§ 2853. When security required from guardian appointed by will
or deed. Where a guardian of an infant's person or property has been
appointed by will or by deed, the infant, or any relative or other person in
his behalf, may present, to the surrogate's court in which the will was
admitted to probate ; or to the surrogate's court of the county in which the
deed was recorded ; a written petition, duly verified, setting forth, either
upon his knowledge, or upon his information and belief, any fact, respecting
the guardian, the existence of which, if it was interposed as an objection to
granting letters testamentary to a person named as executor in a will,
would make it necessary for such a person to give a bond, in order to entitle
himself to letters ; and praying for a decree, requiring the guardian to give
security for the performance of his trust ; and that he may be cited to show
cause why such a decree should not be made. Upon the presentation of
such a petition, and proof of the facts therein alleged, to the satisfaction of
the surrogate, he must issue a citation accordingly. Upon the return of the
citation, a decree requiring the guardian to give security may be made, in
the discretion of the surrogate, in a case where a person so named as execu
tor, can entitle himself to letters testamentary only by giving a bond ; but
not otherwise.
§ 2854. What security to be given. The security to be given, as pre
scribed in the last two sections, must be a bond to the same effect, and in
the same form, as the bond of a general guardian, appointed by the surro
gate's court. Each provision of this chapter, applicable to the bond of such
a guardian, and to the rights, duties, and liabilities of the parties thereto,
or any of them, including the release of the sureties, and the giving of a
new bond ; applies to the bond bo given, and the parties thereto.
§ 2855. Inventory and intermediate account may be required Upon
the petition of the ward, or of any relative or other person in his behalf, the
surrogate's court having jurisdiction to require security, as prescribed in the
last three sections, may at any time, in the discretion of the surrogate,
make an order, requiring a guardian, appointed by will or by deed, to ren
der and file an inventory and account, in the same form, and verified in the
same manner as the inventory and account required to be filed annually by
a guardian appointed by a surrogate's court, as prescribed in article second
of this title. The order may also require such an inventory and account to
be filed, in the month of January of each year thereafter. Sections 2842 to
2845 of this act, both inclusive, apply to such an inventory and account, and
to the filing thereof, as if the guardian had been appointed by the surro
gate's court.
§ 2856. When surrogate may compel judicial settlement of account.
The surrogate's court, having jurisdiction to require security, may compel a
judicial settlement of the account of a guardian, appointed by will or by
deed, in any case where it may compel a judicial settlement of the account
of a guardian appointed by it ; and the proceedings to procure such a set
tlement are the same, as if the guardian had been so appointed.
§2857. Effect of decree. A decree made upon a judicial settlement of
the account of a guardian appointed by will or by deed, as prescribed in
this article, or the judgment rendered upon appeal from such decree, haa
the same force, as a judgment of the supreme court to the same effect.
§ 2858. Removal of guardian appointed by will or deed. Upon the
petition of the ward, or of any relative or other person in his behalf, the
surrogate's court, having jurisdiction to require security from a guardian
appointed by will or by deed, may remove such a guardian, in any case
where a testamentary trustee may be removed, as prescribed in title sixth
of this chapter ; and the proceedings upon such a petition are the same, as
prescribed in that title for the removal of a testamentary trustee. Where a
citation is issued, upon a petition for the removal of such a guardian, he
may be suspended from the exercise of his powers and authority, as if he
had been appointed by the surrogate's court.
§ 2859. Resignation of such a guardian. A guardian appointed by
will or by deed, may be allowed to resign his trust, by the surrogate's court,
having jurisdiction to require security From him. The proceedings for that
purpose, and the effect of a decree made thereupon, are the same, as where
a guardian appointed by the surrogate's court presents a petition, praying
that his letters may be revoked, as prescribed in article first of this title.
§ 2860. Appointment of successor. Where a sole guardian, appointed
by will or by deed, has been, by the decree of the surrogate's court, removed
or allowed to resign, a successor may be appointed by the same court, with
the effect prescribed in section 2605 of this act ; unless such an appoint
ment would contravene the express terms of the will or deed.

§ 2861. Justice ; jurisdiction must be specially conferred by law.
A justice of the peace has such jurisdiction in civil actions and special pro
ceedings, as is specially conferred upon him by statute, and no other.
§ 2862. General civil jurisdiction. Except as otherwise prescribed in
the next, section, a justice of the peace has jurisdiction of the following civil
actions :
1. An action to recover damages upon or for breach of a contract, express
or implied, other than a promise to marry, where the sum claimed does not
exceed two hundred dollars.
2. An action to recover damages for a personal injury, or an injury to
property, where the sum claimed does not exceed two hundred dollars.
8. An action for a fine or penalty, not exceeding two hundred dolars.
4. An action upon a bond conditioned for the payment of money, where
the sum claimed to be due does not exceed two hundred dollars; the judg
ment to be rendered for the sum actually due. Where the sum secured by
the bond is to be paid in installments, an action may be brought for each
installment, as it becomes due.
5. An action upon a surety bond, taken, by any justice of the peace.
6. An action upon a judgment rendered in a court of a justice of the
peace, or in a district court of the city of New York, or in a justices' court
of a city, being a court not of record.
7. An action to recover one or more chattels, with or without damages for
the taking, withholding, or detention thereof, where the value of the chat
tel, or of all the chattels, as stated in the affidavit made on the part of the
plaintiS', does not exceed two hundred dollars.
§ 2863. No jurisdiction in certain cases. But a justice of the peace
cannot take cognizance of a civil action, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the people of the State are a party, except for one or more fines
or penalties not exceeding two hundred dollars.
2. Where the title to real property comes in question, as prescribed in title
third of this chapter.
3. Where the action is to recover damages for an assault, battery, false
imprisonment, libel, slander, criminal conversation, seduction, or malicious
prosecution, or where it is brought under sections 1S.J7, 1843, 1868, 1902 or 1969
of this act.
4. Where, in a matter of account, the sum total of the accounts of both
parties, proved to the satisfaction of the justice, exceeds four hundred
dollars.
5. Where the action is brought against an executor or administrator, as
Buch. [Am'd Ch. 399 op 1882. See § 2.]
§ 2864. Confession of judgment. A justice of the peace has also juris
diction to render judgment, upon the confession of a defendant, as pre
scribed in title 3ixth of this chapter, where the sum confessed does not exceed
rive hundred dollars.
§ 2865. Actions by and against officers, etc. ; and by ex; cutors, eta
An action, cognizable by a justice of the peace, may be brought by or against
a corporation ; by or against a natural person in his own right ; by or against
a town or county officer in his official character ; or by an executor, or admin
istrator, trustee of an express trust or a receiver in supplementary proceedings.
[Am'd Ch. 399 of 1882. Wee § 2.]
§ 2866 Tavern keepers disqualified. A justice of the peace, who is an
innholder or tavern keeper in fact, has no power or jurisdiction under any
provision of this chapter; but if a judgment has been actually rendered by
him, before he became so disqualified, he may give a transcript thereof, or
issue execution thereupon, or satisfy the judgment upon payment thereof.
§ 2867. Members of Legislature not compelled to act. A justice of
the peace, who is a member of the senate or assembly, is not obliged to take
cognizance of a civil action or special proceeding ; but he may take cogni
zance thereof, in his discretion.
§ 2868. Justices to hold courts ; general powers. A justice of the
peace must hold, within his town or city, a court for the trial of any action
or special proceeding, of which he has jurisdiction, brought before hira. He
must hear, try, and determine the same, according to law and equity ; and
for that purpose, where special provision is not otherwise made by law, the
court is vested with all the necessary powers possessed by the supreme court.
§ 2869. In what town, etc., action must be brought. An action must
he brought before a justice of a town or city wherein one of the parties
resides, or a justice of an adjoining town or city in the same county, except
in one of the following cases :
1. Where the defendant has absconded from his residence, it may be
brought before a justice of the town or city in which the defendant, or a por
tion of his property, is at the time of the commencement of the action.
2. Where the plaintifff is not a resident of the county, or if there are two
or more plaintifffs, where all are non-residents thereof ; it may be brought
before a justice of the town or city, in which the plaintifff, or either of the
plaintifffs, or his attorney, is at the time of the commencement of the action.
3. Where the defendant is a non-resident of the county, it may be brought
before a justice of the town or city, in which he is at the time of the com
mencement of the action.
4. Where it is specially prescribed by law, that a particular action may
be brought before a justice of the town, city, county, or district, where an
offense was committed, or where property is found. A defendant desig
nated in section 2879, section 2880, or section 2881 of this act, is deemed,
for the purposes of this section, p. resident of the town or city where the per
son, to whom a copy of the summons is delivered, resides.
§ 2870. Criminal contempts. A justice of the peace has power to pun
ish, for a criminal contempt, a person guilty of either of the following acts :
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards him, while
engaged in the trial of an action, the rendering of a judgment, or any other
judicial proceeding ; where such behavior directly tends to interrupt the
proceedings, or to impair the respect due to his authority.
2. Breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbance, directly tendiug to
interrupt his official proceedings.
3. Resistance willfully offered, in his presence, to the execution of his law
ful mandate.
He has not power to punish, for a criminal contempt, in any other case.
§ 2871. Id. ; how punished. Punishment for a contempt, specified in
the last section, may be by fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars, or by im
prisonment in the county jail not exceeding live days, or both, in the discre
tion of the justice. Where a person is committed to prison for the non-pay
ment of such a fine, he must be discharged at the expiration of ten days ;
but where he is also committed for a definite time, the ten days must be
computed from the expiration of the definite time.
§ 2872. Offender to be heard. A person shall not be punished by a
justice of the peace, for a contempt, until an opportunity has been given
him to be heard in his defense. And, for that purpose, the justice must
issue a warrant, directed, generally, to any constable of the county, requir
ing the constable to bring the offender before him.
§ 2873. Record of conviction A justice, who convicts a person of a
contempt, must, within ten days after the conviction, make up, subscribe,
and file in the county clerk's office, a record thereof, stating therein the par
ticular circumstances of the offense, and the punishment awarded by him
upon the conviction.
§ 2874. Requisites of commitment A warrant of commitment for a
contempt must set forth the particular circumstances of the offense ; other
wise it is void.
§ 2875. Fine to be paid to overseer or superintendent of the poor.
An officer, who collects or receives a fine, imposed by a justice of the peace
for a contempt, must, within ten days thereafter, pay the money, for the
benefit of the poor, to the overseer or superintendent of the poor of the town,
city, or district, wherein the fine was imposed ; or, where there is no such
officer, to the officer or officers performing corresponding functions under
another name ; unless the board of supervisors has directed the payment of
fines and penalties to the supervisor of the town, in a case where it is
authorized by law so to do
§ 2876. Action ; how commenced. An action is commenced before a
justice of the peace, either by the voluntary appearance and joinder of issue
by the parties, or by the service of a summons.
§ 2877. Contents of summons. The summons must be directed, gen
erally, to any constable of the county where the justice resides ; and it must
command him to summon the defendant to appear before the justice, at a
place specified therein, to answer the complaint of the plaintifff in a civil
action. "Where the summons is accompanied with an order to arrest the
defendant, it must be made returnable immediately upon the arrest of the
defendant, within twelve days after the day when it was issued ; in every
other case, it must be returnable at a time therein specified, not less than
six nor more than twelve days after the day when it was issued.
§ 2878. Service of summons. Personal service of the summons must
be made by delivering a copy thereof to the defendant ; except where it is
specially prescribed in this chapter that personal service may be made by
delivering a copy to another person. Where service of a summons is per
sonal, it must be made at least six days before the time of appearance speci
fied therein ; except where it is accompanied with an order of arrest.
§ 2879. Id. ; upon a corporation. Where the defendant to be served is
a corporation, the summons may be personally served upon it by delivering
a copy thereof to an officer or person, to whom a copy of the summons in an
action, brought against the corporation in the supreme court, might be
delivered, as prescribed in sections 431 and 432 of this act; or, to any
director or trustee of the corporation, by whatever official title he is called.
§ 2880. Id. ; special provision relating to railroad corporations.
Where the defendant to be served is a domestic railroad corporation, and no
officer thereof resides in the county, to whom a copy of the summons may "
be delivered, as prescribed in the last section, it may be personally served,
by delivering a copy thereof to a local superintendent of repairs, freight
agent, agent to sell tickets, or station keeper of the corporation, residing' in
the county ; unless, at least thirty days before it was issued, the corporation
had filed, in the office of the clerk of the county, a written instrument,
designating a person residing in the county, upon whom process to be issued
by a justice of the peace against it, may pe served ; in which case, the sum
mons may be personally served by delivering a copy to the person so desig
nated.
§ 2881. Id ; relating to express companies. Where the defendant to
be served is a corporation, association, partnership, or person, doing business
in the State as an express company, and no person resides in the county to
whom a copy of the summons may be delivered, as prescribed in the fore
going sections of this article, it may be personally served, by delivering a
copy thereof to any local or general agent, agent to receive freight or par
cels, route agent, or messenger of the defendant, residing in the county ;
unless, at least thirty days before it was issued, the defendant had filed in
the office of the clerk of the county, a written instrument, designating a
person residing in the county, upon whom process to be issued by a justice
of the peace against the defendant, may be served ; in which case, the sum
mons may be personally served by delivering a copy thereof to the person
so designated.
§ 2882. Last two sections qualified. Where a person has been desig
nated as prescribed in either of the last two sections, and the designation
has been revoked, or it appears, by affidavit or the return of the constable,
to whom a summons has been duly delivered for service, that the person
designated is dead, or has ceased to reside within the county ; or that he
cannot, after due diligence, be found within the county, so as to deliver a
copy of the summons to him ; the original summons, or the second or third
summons, issued as prescribed in the next section, may be served as if the
designation had not been made. Such a designation may be revoked by a
writing, executed and filed in like manner as required for the purpose of
making the designation.
§ 2883. Second and third summons ; effect thereof Where it
appears, by the return of the constable, to whom a summons has been duly
delivered for service, that it was not served for any cause, a second sum
mons may be issued by the same justice, in the same action, within twenty
days after the first summons was issued ; and, upon the like return thereof,
a third summons may be issued, within twenty days after the second was
issued. The second or the third summons, as the case may be, relates back
to the time when the first summons was issued ; and, with respect to all pro
ceedings before actual service, the service thereof has the same effect, as if
the first summons had been seasonably served. For the purpose of issuing
a new summons, as prescribed in this section, a previous summons may be
returned upon the sixth, or any subsequent day, before the return day thereof.
§ 2884. Where name of defendant is unknown. Where the plaintifff
is ignorant of the name, or part of the name of a defendant, that defendant
may be designated in the summons, and in any other process or proceeding
in the action, by a fictitious name, or by so much of his name as is known,
adding a description, identifying the person intended. The person so desig
nated must thereupon be regarded as a defendant in the action, and as suf
ficiently described therein for all purposes. When his name, or the remain
der of his name, becomes known, the justice, before whom the action is
pendiiig, must amend the proceedings already taken, by the insertion of the
true or full name, in place of the fictitious name, or part of a name ; and all
subsequent proceedings must be taken under the name so inserted.
§ 2885. Return of summons. A constable who serves a summons, must
at or before the time when the same is returnable, make and deliver to the
justice a written return thereof, under his hand stating the time when, and
the manner in which, he served }t. A constable who fails seasonably to
serve a summons, delivered to him for service, must make a written return
thereof under his hand, stating that it was not served, and the reason why
he failed to serve it.
Parties may appear in person or by attorney.
Guardian a<l litem for infant plaintifff.
Id. ; for infant defendant.
When constable, etc., may not act as attorney.
Authority of attorney ; how proved.
Plaintiff to prove his case.
Defendant may offer to compromise proceedings thereupon.
Justice to wait one hour.
§ 2886. Parties may appear in person or by attorney. A party to an
action before a justice of the peace, who is of full age, may appear and
prosecute or defend the same, in person or by attorney, at his election, unless
he has been judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs.
§ 2887. Guardian ad litem for infant plaintifff Before a summons is
issued in behalf of, or an issue is joined without summons by, an infant
plaintifff, the justice must appoint a competent and responsible person, nomi
nated by the plaintifff or his general guardian, to appear as his guardian for
the purpose of the action. The written consent of the person so appointed
must be filed with the justice before his appointment. The guardian so
appointed is responsible for the costs.
§2888. Id.; for infant defendant. After the service and return of a
summons against an infant defendant, no other proceeding shall be taken in
the action until a person has been appointed to appear as his guardian for
the purpose of the action. Upon the nomination of the defendant, the justice must appoint a proper person for that purpose. If the defendant does
not appear upon the return of the summons, or if he neglects or refuses to
nominate, the justice may, on the application of the plaintifff, appoint any
proper person as his guardian. The written consent of the person so
appointed must be filed with the justice before his appointment. The guard
ian so appointed is not responsible for any costs.
§ 2889. When constable, etc., may not act as attorney. Subject to
the provisions of sections 63 and 64 of this act, any person, other than the
constable who served the summons or the venire, or the law partner or clerk
of the justice, may be the attorney for a party to an action before a justice
of the peace.
§ 2890. Authority of attorney ; how proved. The attorney's authority
may be conferred orally or in writing ; but the justice shall not suffer a per
son to appear as an attorney, unless his authority is admitted by the adverse
party, or proved by the affidavit or oral testimony of himself, or another.
§ 2891. Plaintiff to prove his case. If a defendant fails to appear and
answer, the plaintifff cannot recover without proving his case.
§ 2892. Defendant may offer to compromise ; proceedings there
upon. Except in an action to recover a chattel, the defendant may, upon
the return of the summons and before answering, file with the justice a writ
ten offer to allow judgment to be taken against nim for a sum therein speci
fied, with costs. If there are two or more defendants, and the action can be
severed, a like offer can be made by one or more of the defendants, against
whom a separate judgment may be taken. If the plaintifff thereupon, before
taking any other proceeding in the action, files with the justice a written
acceptance of the offer, the justice may render judgment accordingly. If
an acceptance is not filed, the offer cannot be given in evidence upon the trial ;
but, if the plaintifff fails to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot
recover costs from the time cf the offer, and must pay the defendant's costs
from that time.
§ 2893. Justice to wait one hour. Upon the return of a summons duly
served, the justice must wait one hour, after the time specified therein for its
return unless the parties sooner appear.
Order of arrest ; in what cases it may be granted.
Id. ; in what actions.
Id. j upon what papers.
Id. ; its contents.
Duty of constable.
Return. When plaintifff notified must appear.
Constable to keep defendant in custody.
Motion to discharge from arrest.
Effect of dischai-ging defendant.
When plaintifff must prove extrinsic facts.
Privilege from arrest.

§ 2894. Order of arrest ; in what cases it may be granted. At the
time when the summons is issued, in an action specified in the next section,
the justice who issues the summons must, upon the application of the plaintifff, and upon compliance by him with the provisions of this article, grant an
order for the arrest of the defendant, in either of the following cases :
1. Where the defendant to be arrested is not a resident of the county.
2. Where the plaintifff is not a resident of the county ; or if there are two
or more plaintifffs, where all are non-residents thereof.
3. Where it appears to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of
the plaintifff or another person, that the defendant is about to depart from
the county, with intent not to return thereto.
But such an order cannot be granted, where the defendant, against whom
it is applied for, is a female.
§ 2895. Id. ; in what actions. An order of arrest shall not be granted,
except where the action is brought for one or more of the following causes :
1. To recover a fine or penalty.
2. To recover damages for a personal injury, of which a justice of the
peace has jurisdiction ; an injury to property, including the wrongful taking,
detention, or conversion of personal property ; misconduct or neglect in office,
or in a professional employment ; fraud ; or deceit. But this subdivision
does not apply to a claim for damages in an action to recover a chattel.
3. To recover for money received, or to recover a chattel ; where it
appears that the money was received, or that the chattel was embezzled or
fraudulently misapplied by a public officer, or by an attorney, solicitor, or
counsellor, or by an officer or agent of a corporation or banking association,
in the course of his employment ; or by a factor, agent, broker, or other per
son in a fiduciary capacity.
§ 2896. Id. ; upon what papers. Where it appears to the justice, by
the affidavit of the plaintifff or another person, that a sufficient cause of
action exists, against the defendant, aud that the case is within the provi
sions of the last two sections, he must grant the order of arrest. But before
granting it, he must require a written undertaking to the defendant, on the
part of the plaintifff, with one or more sureties, approved by the justice, to
the effect that, if the defendant recovers judgment, the plaintifff will pay all
costs which may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which must be at least one hundred dollars.
§ 2897. Id. ; its contents. The order must be subscribed by the justice
and indorsed upon or attached to the summons. It must briefly recite the
ground of arrest ; and it must direct the constable, who serves the summons,
to arrest the defendant ; to bring him forthwith before the justice ; and to
notify the plaintifff of the arrest, if he can do so with reasonable diligence.
§ 2898. Duty of constable. The constable must, at the time of serving
the summons, execute the order of arrest, by arresting the defendant, and
taking him forthwith before the justice. If the justice is absent, or unable
to try the action, the constable must forthwith take the defendant before
another justice of the same town or city; who must take cognizance of the
action, and proceed therein, as if the summons had been issued, and the
order of arrest had been granted by him.
§ 2899. Return. When plaintifff notified must appear. The consta
ble, executing the order of arrest must forthwith deliver to the justice the
order, and a written return thereto, under his hand, stating the manner in
which he has executed it, and either that he has notified the plaintifff, or
that he could not do so, with reasonable diligence. If he returns that he
has notified the plaintifff, the latter must appear within one hour after the
defendant is brought before the justice ; otherwise judgment of nonsuit must
be rendered against him.
§ 2900. Constable to keep defendant in custody. The constable
executing the order, or another constable, by direction of the justice, must
keep the defendant in custody, until he is discharged by the order of the jus
tice, or judgment is rendered in his favor ; but the detention shall not, in any
case, exceed twelve hours from the time when the defendant is brought before
the justice ; unless, within that time, a venire is issued, or the trial of the action
is commenced, or unless either is delayed with the express assent of the
defendant.
§ 2901. Motion to discharge from arrest. A defendant, arrested as
prescribed in this article, may, without notice, upon the appearance of the
plaintifff before the justice, or at any time afterwards before judgment, upon
two days' notice given personally to the plaintifff, or to his agent or attorney
who appeared for him before the justice, apply to the justice for an order,
discharging him from the arrest. The application may be founded upon the
papers upon which the order of arrest was granted, and upon the complaint,
if it has been made. The j ustice must grant the application, where it appears
that the case is not withiu the provisions of sections 2894 and 2S95 of this act.
The justice must also, upon the defendant's application, grant an order dis
charging him from arrest, if the plaintifff fails to take out, from the justice,
an execution upon a judgment in his favor, before the expiration of one hour
after he is entitled thereto.
§ 2902. Effect of discharging defendant. The discharge of the defendant
from arrest, before judgment, as prescribed in the last section, or in section
2963 of this act, does not affect the jurisdiction of the justice over the action,
which must proceed, as if it had been commenced in the ordinary manner.
His discharge from arrest, after judgment, as prescribed in the last section,
does not affect the execution.
§ 2903. When plaintifff must prove extrinsic facts. Where an order
of arrest has been granted and executed, in a case specified in subdivision
third of section 2895 of this act, the plaintifff cannot recover upon a default,
and the defendant is entitled to judgment upon a trial, unless the plaintifff
establishes all the matters of fact, which are required, by that subdivision, to
entitle him to an order of arrest.
§ 2904. Privilege from arrest. This article does not abridge or otherwise
affect a privilege from arrest given by law, or a right of action for the breach
thereof. A privileged person is entitled to be discharged from arrest, by the
order of the justice before whom he is brought, upon proof, by affidavit, of the
facts entitling him to a discharge ; or he may apply for and obtain an order
for his discharge, as prescribed in section 564 of this act
In what actions, warrant of attachment may be granted.
What must be shown to procure a warrant.
Warrant ; form and contents thereof.
Undertaking.
Warrant ; how executed.
Service of summons and warrant upon defendant.
Undertaking by defendant ; re-delivery to him.
Claim by third person ; bond and delivery thereupon.
Action upon bond.
When defendant may prosecute bond.
Return of warrant.
Motion to vacate or modify warrant, etc.
Effect of vacating warrant.
Proceedings where summons not personally Ferved.

§ 2905. In what actions, warrant of attachment may be granted.
In an action brought before a justice of the peace a warrant of attachment
against the property of one or more defendants must be granted, upon the
application of the plaintifff, as prescribed in this article, where the action
is brought upon a judgment, or to recover for one or more of the following
causes :
1. Breach of a contract, express or implied.
2. Wrongful conversion of personal property.
3. Any other injury to personal property, in consequence of negligence,
fraud, or other misconduct.
§ 2906. What must be shown to procure a warrant To entitle the
plaintifff to such a warrant, he must show, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of
the justice as follows :
1. That a sufficient cause of action exists against the defendant, to recover
damages for one or more of the causes specified in the last section. If the
action is upon a judgment, or to recover for breach of a contract, the affidavit
must show that the plaintifff is entitled to recover a sum stated therein, over
and above all counterclaims known to him.
2. That the defendaut is either a foreign corporation ; or not a resident of
the State ; or, if the defendant is a natural person, and a resident of the
State, that he has departed, or is about to depart, from the county where he
last resided, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a
summons, or keeps himself concealed, with the like intent ; or if the defend
ant is a natural person, or a domestic corporation, that he or it has removed,
or is about to remove, property from the county where the defendant being
a natural person last resided, or, being a corporation, last kept its principal
office, or from the county in which the action is brought, with intent to defraud
his or its creditors, or has assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to
assign, dispose of, or secrete, property, with the like intent ; or that the
defendant, being a natural person of full age, and a resident of the State,
has been continuously without the United States for the space of six months
or more, immediately before the application, and either that he has not made
a designation of a person, upon whom to serve a summons in his behalf, as
prescribed in section 430 of this act, or that service upon the person so desig
nated cannot be made, with due diligence, in the county where the person
making the designation resides.
The affidavit must be filed with the justice, when the warrant is granted.
§ 2907. Warrant ; form and contents thereof The warrant must be
granted by the justice who issues the summons, at the time when the sum
mons is issued ; and it must be indorsed thereupon, or annexed thereto. It
must be subscribed by the justice, and must briefly recite the ground of the
attachment. It must require the constable, to whom the summons is deliv
ered, to attach, on or before a day specified therein, which must be at, least
six days before the return day of the summons, and safely to keep, as much
of the defendant's goods and chattels, within his county, as will satisfy the
plaintifff s demand, with the costs and expenses, and to make return of hisproceedings thereon to the justice, at the time when the summons is return
able. The amount of the plaintifff's demand must be specified in the war
rant, as stated in the affidavit.
§ 2908. Undertaking. Before granting the warrant, the justice must
require a written undertaking to the defendant, on the part of the plaintifff,
with one or more sureties, approved by the justice, to the effect that, if the
defendant recovers judgment, or the warrant of attachment is vacated, the
plaintifff will pay all costs which may be awarded to the defendant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding
the sum specified in the undertaking, which must be at least two hundred
dollars ; and that if the plaintifff recovers judgment, he will pay to the
defendant all money received by him from property taken by virtue of the
warrant of attachment, or upon any bond given therefore, over and above
the amount of the judgment, and interest thereupon.
§ 2909. Warrant ; how executed. The constable, to whom the warrant
of attachment is delivered, must execute it at least six days before the return
day of the summons, by levying upon and taking into his custody so much
of the goods and chattels of the defendant, not exempt from levy and sale
by virtue of an execution, including money and bank notes, which he finds
within his county, as will satisfy the plaintifff's demand, with the costs and
expenses. He must safely keep the property attached, to be disposed of as
prescribed in this article, and must immediately make an inventory thereof,
stating therein the estimated value of each item or article.
§ 2910. Service of summons and warrant upon defendant The
constable must, immediately after making the inventory, and at least six
days before the return day of the summons, serve the summons, together
with the warrant of attachment and inventory, upon the defendant, by
delivering to him personally a copy of each, if he can, with reasonable dili
gence, be found within the county ; or, if he cannot be so found, by leaving
a copy of each, certified by the constable, at the last place of residence of
the defendant in the county, with a person of suitable age and discretion ;
or, if such a person cannot be found there, by posting it on the outer door,
'and also depositing another copy in the nearest post-office, inclosed in a sealed
post-paid wrapper, directed to the defendant at his residence ; or, if the
defendant has no place of residence in the county, by delivering it to the
person in whose possession the property attached is found.
§ 2911. Undertaking by defendant ; re-delivery to him. The defend
ant, or his attorney or agent in his behalf, may, at any time before judg
ment is rendered in the action, execute and deliver to the constable an
undertaking, to the plaintifff, in a sum specified therein, at least twice the
value of the property attached, as stated in the inventory ; with one or more
sureties, approved by the constable, or by the justice who issued the war
rant ; and to the effect that, if judgment is rendered against the defendant,
and an execution is issued thereupon, within six months after the giving of
the undertaking, the property attached shall be produced to satisfy the
execution. Thereupon the constable must re-deliver the property to the
defendant.
§ 2912. Claim by third person ; bond and delivery thereupon. If a
person, not a party to the action, claims any property attached, which is not
reclaimed by the defendant, as prescribed in the last section, he may, at any
time after the seizure, and before execution is issued upon a judgment ren
dered in the action, execute and file with the justice, a bond to the plaintifff,
with one or more sureties, approved by the constable or by the justice ; in a
penalty at least twice the value of the property claimed ; and conditioned
that, in an action upon the bond, to be commenced within three months
thereafter, the claimant will establish that he was the general owner of the
property claimed, at the time of the seizure ; or, if he fails so to do, that he
will pay to the plaintifff the value thereof, with interest. The constable must
thereupon deliver the property claimed to the claimant.
§ 2913. Action upon bond. A judgment for the plaintifff, in an action
upon a bond, given as prescribed in the last section, must award to him the
value of the property seized and delivered to the claimant, with interest
thereupon from the time of the delivery. If the amount so recovered exceeds
the amount, which the plaintifff recovers, in the action in which the warrant
of attachment was issued, he is liable to the defendant in that action for the
excess.
§ 2914. When defendant may prosecute bond If the warrant of
attachment is vacated or annulled, the defendant may maintain an action,
upon the bond specified in the last two sections, in his own name, in the
same manner, and with the like effect, as the plaintifff might haVe done if
the warrant had remained in full force.
§ 2915. Return of warrant The constable executing the warrant of
attachment must, at the time when, and place where it is returnable, make
a return thereto, under his hand, stating all his proceedings thereupon. He
must deliver to the justice, with the return, each bond or undertaking deliv
ered to him, pursuant to any of the foregoing provisions of this article, and
a certified copy of the inventory of the property attached. The return must
state the manner in which the warrant and inventory were served, and, if
they were served otherwise than by delivering a copy thereof to the defend
ant personally, the reason therefore, and the name of the person to whom the
copy was delivered, unless his name is unknown to the constable ; in which
case, the return must describe him so as to identify him, as nearly as
may be.
§ 2916. Motion to vacate or modify warrant, etc. A defendant,
whose property has been attached, may, upon the return of the summons,'
apply to the justice, who issued the wan-ant of attachment, to vacate or
modify it, or to increase the plaintifff's security. Such an application may
be founded upon the papers upon which the warrant was granted; or upon
proof, by affidavit, on the part of the defendant; or upon Iwth. If it is
founded upon proof on the part of the defendant, it may be opposed by new
proof, by affidavit, upon the part of the plaintifff, tending to sustain any
ground for the attachment, recited in the warrant, but no other. The jus
tice may, upon the return of the summons, or at any other time to which
the action is adjourned, vacate the warrant of attachment upon his own
motion, if he deems the papers upon which it was granted, insufficient to
authorize it.
§ 2917. Effect of vacating warrant. Vacating the warrant of attach
ment does not affect the jurisdiction of the justice to hear and determine
the action, where the defendant has appeared generally in the action ; or
where the summons was personally served upon him ; or where judgment
may be taken against him, as being indebted jointly with another defend
ant, who has been thus summoned or has thus appeared. In every other
case, the justice, who vacates a warrant of attachment against the property
of a defendant, must dismiss the action as to him.
§ 2918. Proceedings where summons not personally served Where
the defendant has not appeared, and the summons has not been personally
served upou him, and property of the defendant has been duly attached by
virtue of a warrant, which has not been vacated, the justice must proceed,
to hear and determine the action ; but, in an action subsequently brought,
the judgment is only presumptive evidence of indebtedness, and the defend
ant is not barred from any counterclaim against the plaintifff. The execu
tion, issued upon a judgment so rendered, must require the constable to
satisfy it out of the property so attached, without containing a direction to
satisfy it out of any other property.

§ 2919. When action for a chattel may be brought An action to
recover a chattel, with or without damages for the wrongful taking, withhold
ing, or detention thereof, can be brought before a justice of the peace of the
county in which the chattel is found, in a case, and subject to the qualifica
tions, specified in sections 1689, 1690, 1691, and 1692, and subdivision seventh
of section 2862 of this act.
§ 2920. Plaintiff may procure replevin ; affidavit and undertaking.
The plaintifff may, at the time when the summons is issued, but not after
wards, require the chattel to be replevied, as prescribed in this article. For
that purpose, he must deliver to the justice an affidavit and an undertaking,
similar, in all respects, to the affidavit and undertaking required to be
delivered to a sheriff, as prescribed in sections 1695, 1697, 1699, and 1712
of this act ; except that the sureties in the undertaking must be approved
by the justice.
§ 2921. Requisition. Upon receiving the affidavit and undertaking, the
justice must indorse upon or attach to the affidavit a written requisition,
subscribed by him, requiring the constable, to whom the summons is deliv
ered, to replevy the property described in the affidavit, on or before a day
specified in the requisition, which must be at least six days before the
return day of the summons. The affidavit and requisition must be deliv
ered to the constable, with the summons.
§ 2922. Id. ; how executed. Service of summons, etc. The consta
ble must execute the requisition, as a sheriff is required to execute a requi
sition, in an action brought to recover a chattel, as prescribed in sections
1700, 1701, and 1702 of this act ; except that he must serve the summons,
affidavit, and requisition, within the time and in the manner prescribed, by
section 2910 of this act, for the service of a summons, warrant of attachment,
and inventory.
§ 2923. Return of constable. The constable must, on or before the
return day of the summons, make a return to the requisition, under his
hand, stating all his proceedings thereupon ; and file it with the affidavit,
and requisition, with the justice. The return must state the manner in
which the summons, affidavit, and requisition were served ; and, if they
were served otherwise than by delivering the requisite copies to the defend
ant personally, the reason therefore, and the name of the person to whom the
copies were delivered, unless his name is unknown to the constable ; iu which
case, the return must describe him so as to identify him, as nearly as may be.
§ 2924. Defendant may except to sureties ; proceedings thereon
At any time after the chattel has been replevied, and at least two days
before the return day of the summons, the defendant, unless he requires a
return of the chattel, may serve upon the plaintifff, or upon the constable, a
written notice that he excepts to the plaintifff's sureties; otherwise he is
deemed to have waived all objections to them. If such a notice is served,
the sureties must justify upon the return of the summons ; or the plaintifff
must then give a new undertaking to the same effect as the original under
taking, with other sureties, who must then appear and justify before the
justice.
§ 2925. Defendant may reclaim chattel ; proceedings thereon At
any time before the return day of the summons, the defendant may, if he
does not except to the plaintifff's sureties, serve upon the justice a notice that
he requires the return of the chattel replevied. "With the notice he must
deliver to the justice an affidavit and an undertaking, similar, in all respects,
to those required to be given by a defendant upon requiring a return of a
chattel, as prescribed in sections 1704 and 1712 of this act, omitting the pro
vision in the undertaking, " or if the action abates in consequence of the
defendant's death." The sureties in the undertaking must justify before
the justice upon the return of the summons. If the plaintifff has stated sep
arately in his affidavit the value of one or more chattels or classes of chattels,
as prescribed in section 1697 of this act, the defendant may require a delivery
of part of the property replevied, as prescribed in that section.
§ 2926. Justification of sureties. Except as otherwise expressly pre
scribed in this article, the examination and qualifications of the sureties, and
the allowance of the undertaking, upon a justification pursuant to either of
the last two sections, must be the same as upon a justification of bail, as pre
scribed in sections 579, 580, and 581 of this act, substituting the justice for
the judge; but after such allowance, the undertaking must be filed with
the justice. The constable is thereupon exonerated from liability.
§ 2927. When and to whom constable must deliver chattel. If the
defendant neither excepts to the plaintifff's sureties, nor requires the return
of the chattel, within the time prescribed for that purpose ; or if he fails to
procure the allowance of his undertaking ; or if the plaintifff, after the de
fendant has excepted to his sureties, duly procures the allowance of his
undertaking, the constable must, exce; t in the case specified in the next sec
tion but one, immediately deliver the chattel to the plaintifff. If the plain
tiff, after the defendant has excepted to his sureties, fails to procure the
allowance of his undertaking ; or if the defendant, after he has required the
return of the chattel, procures the allowance of his undertaking, the con
stable must immediately deliver the chattel to the defendant.
§ 2928. Penalty for wrong delivery by constable. A constable who
delivers to either party, without the consent of the othor, a chattel replevied
by him, except as prescribed in the last section, or, by virtue of an execu
tion issued upon a judgment in the action, forfeits to the party agi,Tieved
the sum of one hundred dollars ; and is also liable to him for all damages
which he sustains thereby.
§ 2929. Claim of title by third person. The provisions, regulating the
proceedings, where a person, not a party, claims property which has been
replevied, and the right of such a person, and of the sheriff, as prescribed
in sections 1709, 1710, 1711, and 1712 of this act, apply to a like case in an
action, brought as prescribed in this article, substituting the constable for the
sheriff; except that service of a notice and of a copy of the claimant's affidavit,
upon the plaintifff's attorney, as prescribed in section 1709, must be made,
either upon the plaintifff personally, or upon the attorney who appears for
him before the justice ; and that the sum specified in the undertaking, given
by the plaintifff to the constable, need not exceed in any case, three hundred
dollars.
§ 2930. Defendant may demand judgment for return. "Where a
chattel has been replevied, and the defendant has not required the return
thereof, pending the action, as prescribed in the foregoing sections of this
article, he may, in his answer, demand judgment for the return thereof,
either with or without damages for the taking, withholding, or detention.
§ 2931. Proceedings in the action; action on undertaking. Section
1373, section 1731, excluding subdivision first thereof, and sections 1722,
1726, 1730, 1732, 1733, 1734, and 1735 of this act, substituting the constable
for the sheriff, apply to the proceedings in an action in a justice's court to
recover a chattel, and to an action against the sureties in an undertaking
given therein, except as otherwise specially prescribed in this chapter.
§ 2932. Proceedings when summons not personally served. Where
the defendant does not appear, and the summons has not been personally
served upon him, and a chattel, or part of a chattel, to recover which the
action is brought, has been replevied, and the proceedings thereupon have
been duly taken, as prescribed in this article ; the justice must proceed to
hear and determine the action, with respect to that chattel or part of a chat
tel ; or, if the action is brought to recover two or more chattels, with respect
to those which have been replevied ; in like manner and with like effect, as
if the summons had been personally served.
§ 2933. When action not affected by failure to replevy. Where the
summons has been personally served upon the defendant, or where he appears,
the justice must proceed to hear and determine the action, although the
plaintifff has not required the chattel to be replevied, or the constable has
not been able to replevy it.

§ 2934. When issue to be joined. At the place, and within one
hour after the time specified in the summons for the return thereof ; or, where
an order of arrest is granted and executed, within twelve hours after the
defendant is brought before the justice ; or, where no summons is issued, at
the time when the parties voluntarily appear to join issue, the pleadings of
the parties must be made, and issue must be joined. Where both parties
appear upon the return of the summons, an issue must be joined before an
adjournment is had, except when the defendant refuses or neglects to plead.
§ 2935. Pleadings. The pleadings in a justice's court are :
1. The plaintifff's complaint.
2. The defendant's answer.
3. The defendant's demurrer to the complaint, or to one or more distinct
causes of action, separately stated therein.
4. The plaintifff's demurrer to one or more counterclaims stated in the
answer.
§ 2936. Complaint. The complaint must state in a plain and direct
manner, the facts constituting the cause of action.
^ 2937. What causes of action may be joined The plaintifff may
unite, in the same complaint, two or more causes of action, where they all
arise out of
1. The same transaction, or transactions connected with the same subject
of action ; or
2. Contract, express or implied ; or
3. Personal injuries, and injuries to property, or either.
But it must appear, upon the face of the complaint, that all the causes of
action so united belong to one of the foregoing subdivisions of this section ;
that they are consistent with each other ; that they require the same judg
ment ; and, except as otherwise prescribed by law, that they affect all the
parties. Where a cause of action, for which a defendant might be arrested,
is united with a cause of action, for which he cannot be arrested, an execu
tion against the person of the defendant cannot be issued upon the judg
ment.
§ 2938. Answer. The answer may contain a general denial of each
allegation of the complaint, or a specific denial of one or more of the material
allegations thereof. It may also set forth, in a plain and direct manner,
new matter, constituting one or more defenses or counterclaims.
§ 2939. Demurrer. In a case specified in subdivision third and fourth of
Bection 2935 of this act, a party may demur to the pleading of the adverse
party, or, if it is a complaint, to one or more distinct and separate causes of
action, where it is not sufficiently explicit to be understood ; or where it
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or counterclaim,
as the case may be. If the court deems the demurrer well founded, it must
permit the pleading to be amended ; and if the party fails to so amend, the
defective pleading, or part of a pleading, demurred to, must be disregarded.
If the court deems the demurrer not well founded, it must permit the party
making it to plead over, at his election.
§ 2940. General rules of pleading. A pleading, except as otherwise
prescribed in section 2951 of this act, may be oral or written. If it is oral,
the substance thereof must be entered by the justice in his docket-book; if
it is written, it must be filed by him, and a reference to it made in his
docket-book. A pleading is not required to be in any particular form ; but
it must be so expressed, as to enable a person of common understanding to
know what is intended.
§ 2941. Account, or instrument for payment of money. For the pur
pose of setting forth a cause of action, defense, or counterclaim, founded
upon an account, or upon an instrument for the payment of money only, it is
sufficient for the party to deliver the instrument, or a copy of the account to
the court, and to state that there is due to him thereupon, from the adverse
party, a specified sum, which he claims to recover or to set-off.
§ 2942. Court may require items to be exhibited. The court may,
upon the request of either party, made when issue is joined, require the
adverse party to exhibit his account or demand, or to state the nature thereof,
as far as it is in his power so to do, at that or another specified time ; and
in case of his default, it may preclude him from giving evidence of such
parts thereof, as have not been so exhibited or stated.
§ 2943. Immaterial variance to be disregarded. A variance, between
an allegation in a pleading and the proof, must be disregarded as immate
rial, unless the court is satisfied that the adverse party has been misled
thereby, to his prejudice.
§ 2944. Amendment of pleadings. The court must, upon application,
allow a pleading to be amended, at any time before the trial, or during the
trial, or upon appeal, if substantial justice will be promoted thereby. Where
a party amends his pleading after joinder of issue, or pleads over upon the
decision of a demurrer, and it is made to appear to the satisfaction of the
court, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse party, in
consequence of the amendment or pleading over, an adjournment must be
granted. The court may also, in its discretion, require, as a condition of
allowing an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party.
§ 2945. Counter-claims. Sections 501 and 502 of this act apply to a
counterclaim in an action brought in a justices' court ; except that such a
counterclaim cannot be interposed, unless it is of such a nature, that a jus
tices' court has jurisdiction of a cause of action founded thereon.
§ 2946. Id. ; where executor or trustee is a party. Sections 505 and
506 of this act apply to a counterclaim in an action against a person sued
in a representative capacity, or in favor of an executor or administrator,
except that the defendant cannot take judgment against the plaintifff upon
a counterclaim, for a sum exceeding two hundred dollars.
§ 2947. Consequence of neglect to plead counterclaim. Where the
defendant, in an action to recover damages upon or for breach of a contract,
neglects to interpose a counterclaim, consisting of a cause of action in his
favor to recover damages for a like cause, which might have been allowed to
him upon the trial of the action, he, and every person deriving title thereto
through or from him, are forever thereafter precluded from maintaining an
action to recover the same, or any part thereof.
§ 2048. The last section qualified. But the prohibition contained in
the last section does not extend to either of the following cases :
1. Where the amount of the counterclaim is two hundred dollars more
than the judgment which the plaintifff recovers.
2. Where the counterclaim consists of a judgment, rendered before the
commencement of the action, in which it might have been interposed.
3. Where the counterclaim consists of a claim for unliquidated damages.
4. Where the counterclaim consists of a claim, upon which another action
was pending, at the time when the action was commenced.
5. Where judgment is taken against the defendant, without personal ser
vice of the summons upon him, or an appearance by him.
§ 2949. Judgment upon counterclaim Where a counterclaim is
established, which equals the plaintifff's demand, the judgment must be in
favor of the defendant. Where it is less than the plaintifff's demand, the
plaintifff must have judgment for the residue only. Where it exceeds the
plaintifff's demand, the defendant must have judgment for the excess, or so
much thereof as is due from the plaintifff, unless it is more than the sum of
two hundred dollars. If it is more than two hundred dollars, or if no part
of it is due from the plaintifff, the justice must, at the election of the defend
ant, either :
1. Set-off so much of the counterclaim as is sufficient to satisfy the plain
tiff's demand, and render judgment for the defendant for his costs ; in which
case, the defendant may maintain an action for the residue ; or,
2. Render a judgment of discontinuance with costs ; in which caso, the
defendant may thereafter maintain an action for the whole.
3. Where part of the excess is not due from the plaintifff, the judgment
does not prejudice the defendant's right to recover, from another person, so
much thereof as the judgment does not cancel.
§ 2950. Judgment when accounts exceed $400. Where, upon the
trial of an action, the sum total of the accounts of both parties, proved to
the satisfaction of the justice, exceeds four hundred dollars, judgment of
discontinuance must be rendered against the plaintifff, with costs.
§ 2951. Answer of title. The defendant may, either with or without
other matter of defense, set forth in his answer facts, showing that the title
to real property will come in question. Such an answer must be in writing ;
and it must be signed by the defendant, or his attorney or agent, and deliv
ered to the justice. The justice must, thereupon, countersign the answer,
and deliver it to the plaintifff.
§ 2952. Undertaking thereupon. In the case specified in the last sec
tion, the defendant must also deliver to the justice, with the answer, a writ
ten undertaking, executed by one or more sureties, approved by the justice ;
to the effect that, if the plaintifff within twenty days thereafter, deposits
with the justice a summons and complaint in a new action, for the same
cause, to be brought in the proper court, as prescribed in the next section,
the defendant will, within twenty days after the deposit, give a written
admission of the service theroof Where the defendant was arrested in the
action before the justice, the undertaking must further provide, that he will,
at all times, render himself amenable to any mandate, which may be issued
to enforce a final judgment in the action so to be brought. If the defendant
fails to comply with the undertaking, the sureties are liable thereupon, to
an amount not exceeding two hundred dollars.
§ 2953. In what court new action to be brought The court in which
a new action is to be brought aj prescribed in the last section, is the supreme
court, or the county court of the justice's county, at the plaintifff's election ;
except that, where the justice is a justice of the peace of the city of Buffalo,
it is the superior court of Buffalo.
§ 2954. When action before justice to be discontinued. Upon the
delivery of the undertaking to the justice, the action before him is discon
tinued, and each party must pay his own costs. The costs so paid by either
party must be allowed to him, if he recovers costs in the new action, to be
brought as prescribed in the last two sections. If the plaintifff fails to
deposit with the justice a summons and complaint in the new action, before
the expiration of twenty days after the delivery of the undertaking, the
defendant may maintain an action against the plaintifff to recover his costs
before the justice.
§ 2955. Effect of failure to give undertaking. If the undertaking is
not delivered to the justice, he has jurisdiction of the action, and must pro
ceed therein ; and the defendant is precluded, in his defense, from drawing
the title in question.
§ 2956. When title comes in question on plaintifff's own showing.
If, however, it appears, upon the trial, from the plaintifff 's own showing, that
the title to real property is in question, and the title is disputed by the
defendant, the justice must dismiss the complaint, with costs, and render
judgment against the plaintifff accordingly.
§ 2957. Pleadings in new action ; undertaking before justice, when
applicable. In the new action, to be brought after an action before a jus
tice is discontinued, by the delivery of an answer and an undertaking, as
prescribed in the last six sections of this act, the plaintifff must complain for
the same cause of action only, upon which he relied before the justice ; and
the defendant's answer must set up the same defense only, which he made
before the justice. If the action is to recover a chattel, which was replevied,
in the justice's court, each undertaking given in the justice's court, con
tinues to be valid in, and is applicable to the new action.
2958. Answer of title as to one of several causes of action.
ere, in an action before a justice, the plaintifff has two or more causes of
action, and the defense, that the title to real property will come in question,
is interposed as to one or more, but not to all of them ; the defendant may
deliver an answer and undertaking as prescribed in sections 2951 and 2952
of this act, with respect to the cause or causes of action only, in which title
will so come in question. Whereupon the justice must discontinue the action
as to those causes of action only ; the plaintifff may commence a new action
therefore in the proper court ; and the original action must proceed as to the
other causes.
§ 2959. Adjournment by justice. At the time of the return of a sum
mons, or of the joinder of issue without process, but at no other time, the
justice may, in his discretion and upon his own motion, adjourn the trial ol
the action not more than eight days, unless the defendant has been arrested ;
in which case, no such adjournment shall be made.
§ 2960. Adjournment on application of plaintifff At the time of the
return of a summons, or of the joinder of issue without process, the justice
must, upon the application of the plaintifff, adjourn the trial of the action,
not more than eight days, to a time fixed by the justice. But such an
adjournment shall not be granted unless the plaintifff or his attorney, if
required by the defendant, makes oath that the plaintifff cannot, for want of
some material testimony or witness, specified by him, safely proceed to trial.
§ 2961. Adjournment on application of defendant. At the time of the
joinder of issue, the justice must, upon the application of the defendant,
adjourn the trial of the action, upon his complying with the following
requirements :
1. The defendant or his attorney must, if required by the plaintifff, or by
the justice, make oath that he verily believes that the defendant has a good
defense to the action, and that he cannot safely proceed to trial, for want of
some material testimony or witness, specified by him.
2. If required by the plaintifff, and the defendant has not been arrested in
the action, an undertaking must be given to the plaintifff in behalf of the
defendant, as prescribed in the next section. But such an undertaking need
not be given, where the action is to recover a chattel.
Such an adjournment must be for such a reasonable time, fixed by the jus
tice, as will enable the defendant to procure the testimony or witness.
§ 2962. Id. ; undertaking thereupon. The undertaking prescribed in
the last section must be executed by one or more sureties, approved by the
justice ; and must be to the effect that, if the plaintifff recovers judgment in
the action; and if, before the expiration of ten days after the plaintifff
becomes entitled to an execution upon the judgment, the defendant removes,
secretes, assigns, or in any way disposes of any part of his property, liable
to levy and sale by virtue of an execution, except for the necessary support
of himself and his family, and if an execution upon the judgment is
returned wholly or partly unsatisfied; the sureties will, upon demand, pay
to the plaintifff the sum due upon the judgment.
2963. Undertaking to procure discharge of defendant from custody,
ere the defendant has been arrested, the trial must be adjourned upon
his application, upon the same terms, and in the same manner, as where he
has not been arrested'; except that the undertaking prescribed in the last
section need not be given. A defendant, who procures such an adjournment,
must continue, during the time of adjournment, in the custody of the con
stable; unless he gives an undertaking "to the plaintifff, with one or more
sureties, approved by the justice, to the effect that, if the plaintifff recovers
judgment in the action; and if an execution is issued thereupon against the
person of the defendant, within ten days after the plaintifff is entitled to
the same ; and if a return is made thereto, on or after the return day
thereof, that the defendant cannot be found ; the sureties will pay to the
plaintifff the amount due upon the judgment. If such an undertaking is
given, the defendant must be discharged from custody.
§ 2964. When defendant to be discharged. If the trial of an action,
in which the defendant has been arrested, is adjourned with the consent of
both parties, or upon the application of the plaintifff, the defendant must be
discharged from custody.
§ 2965. Subsequent adjournments. The justice must, upon the appli
cation of the defendant, grant a second or subsequent adjournment of the
trial of the action, upon the defendant's giving security, if required, as pre
scribed in the foregoing provisions of this article, where he applies for a first
adjournment ; and upon his proving, by his own oath or otherwise, to the
satisfaction of the justice, that he cannot safely proceed to trial for want of
some material testimony or witness ; and that he has used due diligence to
obtain the testimony or witness. But if the defendant has given an undertak
ing upon a former adjournment, a new undertaking need not be given, unless
it is required by the justice, or by the sureties in the former undertaking.
§ 2966. Justice may impose conditions upon adjournment. Upon
nting the defendant's application for an adjournment, where the trial
been once adjourned, or where the plaintifff is a non-resident of the
county, the justice may, in his discretion, upon the plaintifff's application,
direct that any witness on the part of the plaintifff, who is in attendance be
then examined under oath before the justice. Thereupon the testimony of
the witness must be reduced to writing certified by the justice, and retained
by him ; to be read upon the trial, with the same effect, and subject to the
same objections, as if it was then given orally by the witness.
§ 2967. Adjournment when warrant to attach absent witness is
issued. Where, upon a trial, a warrant of attachment is issued to compel
the attendance of a witness, who has failed to appear in obedience to a sub
poena, the justice may, in his discretion, adjourn the trial, for such a time as
he deems necessary for the return of the warrant, not exceeding five days.
§ 2968. Adjournment not to exceed ninety days The trial of an
action shall not be adjourned to a time beyond ninety days from the joinder
of issue, without the consent of both parties, except in one of the following
cases :
1. Where a venire has been duly issued, but a jury has not been pro
cured, so that it is necessary to issue a new venire, or to summon one or more
talesmen, the trial may be adjourned, not more than two days beyond the
ninety days, in order to enable a jury to be procured.
2. Where a jury has not been able to agree upon a verdict and is dis
charged, a trial may be adjourned a sufficient time beyond the ninety days
to enable a new jury to be procured, as prescribed in title fifth of this
chapter.
3. Where a warrant of attachment has been issued to compel the attend
ance of a witness, as prescribed in the last section, or a warrant has been
issued to commit a recusant witness, as prescribed in title fifth of this chap
ter, an adjournment made thereupon, as prescribed by law, is not deemed a
part of the ninety days.
Wlien justice may issue subpoena.
Subpoena ; how served.
Warrant of attachment against defaulting' witness.
[d. ; how executed ; fees thereupon.
Id. ; when witness is in adjoining county.
Fine for refusing to attend, or to testify.
Id. ; how imposed.
Minute of conviction.
Execution thereupon.
Money collected ; how applied.
Defaulting witness liable for damages.

When justice may issue subpoena A justice of the peace may
issue a subpoena to compel a witness to attend, in the county where the jus
tice resides, o*' in an adjoining county, but not otherwise, for the purpose of
testifying upo.i the trial of an action, pending before himself, or before
another justice. The subpoena may require the witness, except as otherwise
expressly prescribed by law, to bring with him any book or paper, relating
to the merits of the action. But a justice shall not issue a subpoena to com
pel the attendance of a witness before another justice, unless the person
applying therefore proves, by his own oath, or the oath of another person,
that an action is actually pending before the other justice.
§ 2970. Subpoena ; how served. A subpoena may be served by a con
stable, or by any other person. It must be served by reading it, or stating
its contents, to the witness, and by paying or tendering to him his lawful
fee for one day's attendance as a witness. Where it is served by a constable,
his return thereto, stating the manner of service and the sum paid, is pre
sumptive evidence of the facts therein stated.
§ 2971. Warrant of attachment against defaulting witness. Where
it is made to appear, to the satisfaction of the justice, by affidavit or other
proof, that a person, duly subpoenaed to appear before him in an action, has
refused or neglected to attend as a witness in obedience to the subpoena ; and
no just cause for the neglect or refusal is shown to exist ; and the party, in
whose behalf the witness was subpoenaed, or his attorney, makes oath that
the testimony of the witness is material ; the justice must issue a warrant
of attachment, directed generally to any constable of the county, for the pur
pose of compelling the attendance of the witness.
§ 2972. Id. ; how executed ; fees thereupon. Such a warrant of attach
ment must be executed in the same manner as an order of arrest. The fees
of the justice and constable for issuing and serving it, must be paid by the
person against whom it is issued, unless he shows a reasonable excuse, to the
satisfaction of the justice, for his omission to attend ; in which case, the party
procuring the warrant must pay them, and, if he recovers costs, the amount
thereof must be allowed to him as part of his costs.
§ 2973. Id ; when witness is in adjoining county. Where the delin
quent witness is within an adjoining county, the constable, to whom the
warrant of attachment is directed, may arrest the witness in that county,
and bring him before the justice. The constable, while he is within the
adjoining county for that purpose, has all the powers of a constable of that
county, with respect to the warrant so issued to him.
§ 2974. Fine for refusing to attend, or to testify. A person, duly sub
poenaed as a witness, who, without a reasonable excuse, proved by his oath
or the oath of another person, fails to attend ; or, attending, refuses to testify;
must be fined, by the justice before whom the action is pending, for each
non-attendance or refusal, such a sum, not less than one dollar nor more than
ten dollars, as the justice thinks it reasonable to impose upon him, as a fine
therefore.
§ 2975. Id ; how imposed The fine may be summarily imposed by the
justice, upon the application of the party in whose behalf the witness was
subpoenaed, at any time during the trial, when the defaulting witness is
present, and has an opportunity to be heard. If it is not imposed during
the trial, the justice, at any time within five days after judgment is ren
dered, mu-^t, upon the application of the party, issue a warrant, directed gen
erally to any constable of the county, commanding him to arrest the default
ing witness, and to bring him before the justice, at a time and place therein
specified, the time to be not more than twelve days after issuing the war
rant, to show cause why a fine should not be imposed upon him.
2976. Minute of conviction
in his docket-book a minute of the conviction, of the cause thereof, of the
amount of the fine, and of the costs. The minute is deemed a judgment
against the delinquent, in favor of the officer to whom fines are directed to
be paid, by section 2875 of this act.
§ 2977. Execution thereupon If the whole amount of the fine and
costs is not forthwith paid to the justice, he must issue an execution, directed
generally to any constable of the county, commanding the constable to col
lect the sum remaining unpaid, of the goods and chattels of the delinquent,
within the county, and, for want thereof, to take him and convey him to
the jail of the county, there to remain until he pays that sum, not exceeds
ing thirty days. Upon the delinquent being committed to jail, the keeper
thereof must keep him in close custody therein, until he is entitled to a dis
charge, as specified in the execution.
§ 2978. Money collected ; how applied. The money collected by virtue
of the execution, must be forthwith paid by the constable to the justice.
The justice must, within ten days after he receives a fine, or any part there
of, from the constable or the delinquent, pay the money to the officer to
whom the fines are directed to be paid, by section 2875 of this act, for the
use of the poor.
§ 2979. Defaulting witness liable for damages. A person, subpoenaed
as prescribed in this article, who neglects or refuses to obey the subpoena, or
§ 2980. Commission to examine witness upon interrogatories.
Where the defendant has neglected to appear upon the return of a summons,
or has failed to answer the complaint, or where an issue of fact has been
joined in an action ; and it appears, by affidavit, upon the application of
either party, that a witness, not within the county where the action is pend
ing, or an adjoining county, is material in the prosecution or defense of the
action, the justice may award a commission to one or more competent persons,
authorizing them, or either of them, to examine the witness under oath,
upon interrogatories to be settled by the justice, or by the written agree
ment of the parties, and indorsed upon or annexed to the commission ; to
take and certify the deposition of the witness ; and to return the same by
mail, addressed to the justice.
§ 2981. Id. ; orally. If both parties expressly consent, a commission
granted as prescribed in this article, may issue without written interroga
tories, and the deposition may be taken upon oral questions. In that case,
section 900 of this act applies to the execution of the commission ; and a
copy of that section must be annexed thereto. Notice of the time or place
of the examination of a witness, by virtue thereof, need not be given.
§ 2982. When and how granted. The commission may be granted by
the justice without notice, upon the application of the plaintifff', made at the
return of the summons, or upon the application of either party, made at the
time of the joinder of issue. It may also be granted at any time after the
joinder of issue, upon the application of either party, accompanied with
proof, by affidavit, that six days' written notice of the application has been
served upon the adverse party, either personally, or by service upon the
attorney, who appeared for him before the justice.
§ 298S. Adjournment Where a commission is granted upon the appli
cation of the plaintifff, he is entitled to one or more adjournments of the trial,
as may be necessary to procure the commission to be executed and returned;
not exceeding the length of time for which the trial might be adjourned
upon the application of "the defendant.
§ 2984. Execution and return of commission. The commission must
be executed and returned, as prescribed in section 901 of this act ; and a
copy of that section must be annexed thereto, except that subdivision sixth
thereof may be omitted.
§ 2985. Receipt thereof by justice. The justice, to whom the package
containing the commission is transmitted by mail, must receive it from the
?oat-office, and open and file it, indorsing thereupon the date of his so doing,
t must remain on file with him, until the trial ; but either party is entitled
to inspect it on file.
§ 2986. When deposition evidence. Sections 902 and 903 of this act
apply to a commission, issued as prescribed in this article ; and to the exe
cution thereof. A deposition taken thereunder may be read in evidence
upon the trial by either party, and has the effect specified in section 911 of
this act.
§ 2987. Powers of commissions. Where the commission is executed
within the State, the commissioner, or, if there are two or more, a majority
of them, have the same power to issue a subpoena, to swear a witness, and
to compel his attendance, that a justice of the peace has, in an action pend
ing before him.
Effect of failure of defendant to appear.
When justice to try issue of fact.
When jury trial may be demanded
Venire.
Id.; in action between two towns, etc.
Delivery, execution, and return of venire.
Ballots ; how prepared.
Drawing jury.
Talesman.
New venire.
Juror's oath.
Jury to hear proofs.
Witness' oath.
Witness refusing to be sworn, etc. Warrant thereupon.
Contents of warrant ; imprisonment of recusant witness
Adjournment thereupon.
Ex parte affidavit ; when evidence.
Competency of witness ; how determined.
Constable to keep jury ; his oath.
Rendition of verdict ; plaintifff need not be called.
Jury when to be discharged ; new venire.
Fine to be imposed on defaulting juror.

§ 2988. Effect of failure of defendant to appear. Where the defend
ant makes default in appearing or pleading, upon the return of a summons,
which has been duly served as prescribed in this chapter, the justice must
hear the allegations and proofs of the plaintifff, and render judgment accord
ing to law and equity, as the very right of the case appears.
§ 2989. When justice to try issue of fact. Where an issue of fact has
been joined, if neither party demands a trial by jury, the justice must try
the issue, hear the allegations and proofs of the parties, and render judg
ment as prescribed in the last section.
§ 2990. When jury trial may be demanded. After an issue of fact
has been joined, and at any time before the justice proceeds to an investi
gation of the merits of the action, by swearing a witness, or receiving evi
dence, either party, or his attorney, may demand a trial by jury.
§ 2991. Venire. Where a trial by jury is duly demanded, the justice
must issue a venire, directed generally to any constable of the county
wherein the action is to be tried, commanding him to notify twelve men of
the town or city where the justice resides, qualified to serve, and not exempt
from serving, as trial jurors in courts of record ; not of kin to the plaintifff
or defendant ; and not interested in the action ; to attend before the justice^
at a time and place specified therein, to form a jury for the trial of the
action. But if the parties agree upon a number of jurors, less than six, to
try the action, the venire must direct the constable to notify twice the num
ber so agreed upon.
§ 2992. Id. ; in action between two towns, etc. Where the action is
between two towns or cities, or between a town and a city, the venire must
direct the constable to notify twelve men of the county, who are qualified
and not exempt, as prescribed in the last section, and who are not interested
in the matter at issue, to form a jury for the trial of the action.
§ 2993. Delivery, execution, and return of venire. The justice must
deliver the venire, or cause it to be delivered, to a constable of the county,
disinterested between the parties, who has not acted, or been employed to
act, as the attorney or agent of either party, with respect to any claim or
matter in controversy in the action, and to whom neither party offers any
other reasonable objection. The constable shall not notify any person, whom
he has reason to believe to be biased or prejudiced, in favor of or against
either party ; and he must, in all other respects, execute the venire fairly
and impartially. He must notify the jurors personally, and indorse upon
or annex to the venire, and deliver to the justice, a return under his hand,
containing a list of the persons notified.
§ 2994. Ballots ; how prepared. For the purpose of procuring a jury
to try the action, the justice must prepare, or cause to be prepared, ballots,
uniform, as nearly as may be, in appearance, by writing the name of each
person returned, who attends, upon a separate piece of paper. The consta
ble, in the presence of the justice, must roll up or fold each ballot in the
same manner, as nearly as may be, so as to resemble the others, and so that
the name is not visible. The ballots must be deposited in a box, or other
convenient receptacle.
§ 2995. Drawing jurors. The justice must then openly draw out, one
after another, six of the ballots, or such smaller number thereof as the
parties have agreed upon. If a person, whose name is drawn, is challenged
and set aside, or is excused, another ballot must be drawn ; and so on, suc
cessively, until the required number of persons is obtained. Those persons
constitute the jury to try the action.
§ 2996. Talesmen. If a sufficient number of competent jurors is not
drawn, the justice may, in his discretion, either issue a new venire, or direct
the constable to require the attendance of such a number of talesmen from
the bystanders, or others, duly qualified, and against whom no cause of
challenge appears, as the justice deems sufficient for the purpose.
§ 2997. New venire. If the constable, to whom the venire is delivered,
does not return it as required thereby ; or if a full jury is not obtained in
the manner prescribed in the foregoing sections of this title, the justice must
issue a new venire.
§ 2998. Juror's oath. The justice must administer an oath or affirma
tion to each juror, well and truly to try the matter in difference between
, plaintifff, and
, defendant, and, unless discharged
by the justice, a true verdict to give, according to the evidence.
§ 2999. Jury to hear proofs. After the jurors have been duly sworn,
they must sit together, and hear the allegations and proofs of the parties,
which must be made publicly, in their presence.
§ 3000. Witness' oath. A person offered as a witness, must, before any
testimony is given by him, be duly sworn, or affirmed, to the effect that the
evidence which he shall give, relating to the matter in difference between
, plaintifff, and
, defendant, shall be the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
§ 3001. Witness refusing to be sworn, etc. Warrant thereupon.
Where a witness, attending before a justice in an action, refuses to be sworn
or affirmed in the form prescribed by law ; or to answer a pertinent and
proper question ; or neglects or refuses to produce a book or paper which he
has been duly subpoenaed to produce, as prescribed in section 2969 of this
act, or duly required to produce by an order, made as prescribed in section
867 of this act ; and the party, at whose instance he attended, makes oath
that the testimony of the witness, or that the book or paper, is so far material,
that without it he cannot safely proceed with the trial of the action the justice
may, by warrant, commit the witness to the jail of the county.
§ 3002. Contents of warrant ; imprisonment of recusant witness.
The warrant must specify the cause for which it is issued. If it is issued for
refusing to answer a question, the question must be specified therein; if for
neglecting or refusing to produce a book or paper, the same must be described
with convenient certainty. The recusant witness must be closely confined, by
virtue of the warrant, until he submits to be sworn or affirmed, or to answer,
or to produce the book or paper required, as the case may be ; or is otherwise
discharged according to law.
§ 3003. Adjournment thereupon. The justice must thereupon, from time
to time, at the request of the party in whose behalf the witness attended,
adjourn the trial, until the witness testifies, or produces the book or
paper required, or dies, or becomes a lunatic, or is discharged according
to law.
§ 3004. Ex parte affidavit ; when evidence. An ex parte affidavit shall
not be received in evidence upon a trial, without the consent of both parties,
except in a case where it is specially Allowed by law.
§ 3005. Competency of witness ; how determined. An objection to
the competency of a witness must be tried and determined by the justice.
Where the ground of the objection depends upon a matter of fact, evidence
may be given thereupon, as upon any other question of fact ; except that, if
the witness is examined thereupon by the party objecting, no other testimony
shall be received from either party as to his competency.
t3006. Constable to keep jury ; his oath. After hearing the allegations
proofs, the jury must be kept together in a private and convenient
place, under the charge of a constable, until they all agree upon their verdict ;
and, for that purpose, the justice shall administer to the constable the follow
ing oath : " You swear in the presence of Almighty God, that you will,
to the utmost of your ability, keep the persons sworn as jurors upon this
trial together, in a private and convenient place, without any meat or
drink, except such as shall be ordered by me ; that you will not suffer any
communication to be made to them, orally or otherwise ; that you will not
communicate with them yourself, orally or otherwise, unless by my order, or
to ask them whether they have agreed upon their verdict, until they are
discharged ; and that you will not, before they render their verdict, com
municate to any jJerson the state of their deliberations, or the verdict they
have agreed upon."
§ 3007. Rendition of verdict ; plaintifff need not be called. "When
the jurors have agreed upon their verdict, they must publicly deliver it to
the justice, who must enter it in his docket-book. It is not necessary to
call the plaintifff before receiving the verdict ; and the plaintifff cannot submit
to a nonsuit or withdraw the action, after the cause has been committed to
the jury.
§ 3008. Jury, when to be discharged ; new venire. Where the justice
is satisfied that the jurors cannot agree upon a verdict, after having been
out a reasonable time, he may discharge them, and issue a new venire,
returnable within forty-eight hours ; unless the parties consent, and their
consent is entered in the justice's docket-book, that the justice may render
judgment upon the evidence already before him ; which he may do, in that
case.
§ 3009. Fine to be imposed on defaulting juror. A person duly notified
to attend as a juror, who fails to attend, or attending, refuses to serve, without
a reasonable excuse, proved by his oath, or the oath of another person, is
liable to the same fine," to be imposed and collected, with costs, in like man
ner, and applied to the same use, as is prescribed in article second of title
fourth of this chapter, with respect to a person subpoenaed as a witness, and
not attending, or attending and refusing to testify.
Judgment by confession.
Id.; mode of confessing juagment.
Id. ; when void.
Judgment of nonsuit.
Judgment upon verdict, etc.
When judgment to be rendered.
Remitting part of verdict, etc.
Transcript of judgment ; docketing the same.
Id. ; when execution may issue against persons.
Id. ; in action for a chattel.
Judgment against joint debtors.
Docketing the same ; action thereupon.
Docketing judgment in another county.
Justice may give transcript, after expiration of his term.

§ 3010. Judgment by confession. A justice of the peace may enter a
judgment upon the confession of the defendant, in any case, where the
amount confessed does not exceed the sum of five hundred dollars, with such
a stay of execution, if any, as is agreed upon by the parties to the judgment.
§ 3011. Id. ; mode of confessing judgment. A judgment upon confession
shall not be rendered, unless the following requisites are complied with :
1. The defendant must ersonally appear before the justice.
2. The confession must be in writing, signed by the defendant, and filed
with the justice.
3. If the judgment is confessed for a sum exceeding fifty dollars, the con
fession must be accompanied with the affidavit of the defendant and of the
plaintifff, stating that the defendant is honestly and justly indebted to the
plaintifff in the sum specified therein, over and above all just demands which
the defendant has against the plaintifff; and that the confession is not made
or taken with intent to defraud any creditor.
^ 3012. Id. ; when void. A judgment confessed, otherwise than as pre
scribed in the last section, is void, as against every person, except a pur
chaser in good faith of property, real or personal, thereunder, and the
defendant making the confession.
§ 3013. Judgment of nonsuit. Judgment of nonsuit, with costs, must
be rendered against a plaintifff prosecuting an action before a justice of the
peace, in either of the following cases :
1. If he discontinues or withdraws the action.
2. If he fails to appear within one hour after the summons is returnable,
or within one hour after the time to which the trial has been adjourned.
3. If he is nonsuited upon the trial.
§ 3014. Judgment upon verdict, eta "Where a verdict, or the decision
of the justice upon a trial without a jury, is rendered in favor of either party,
the justice must render judgment
thereto, with costs, except as is otherwise specially prescribed by law.
§ 3015. When judgment to be rendered. Where the plaintifff is non
suited, or discontinues or withdraws the action ; or where judgment is con
fessed, or a verdict is rendered ; or where, at the close of the trial, the
defendant is in custody ; the justice must forthwith render judgment, and i
enter it in his docket-book. In every other case, he must render judgment
and enter it in his docket-book, within four days after the cause has been
finally submitted to him.
§ 3016. Remitting part of verdict, etc. Where a verdict, or the decision
of the justice upon a trial without a jury, is rendered in favor of either party
for a sum of money, the prevailing party may remit any portion thereof, and
take judgment for the residue.
§ 3017. Transcript of judgment ; docketing the same. A justice of
the peace who renders a judgment, except in an action to recover a chattel,
must, upon the application of the party in whose favor the judgment was
rendered, and payment of the fee therefore, deliver to him a transcript of the
judgment. The county clerk of the county, in which the judgment was
rendered, must, upon the presentation of the transcript, and payment of the
fees therefore, indorse thereupon the date of its receipt, file it in his office,
and docket the judgment, as of the time of the receipt of the transcript, in
the book kept by him for that purpose, as prescribed in article third of title
first of chapter eleventh of this act. Thenceforth the judgment is deemed
a jugment of the county court of that county, and must be enforced accord
ingly ; except that an execution can be issued thereupon only by the county
clerk, as prescribed in section 3043 of this act, and that the judgment is not
a lien upon, and cannot be enforced against, real property, unless it is for
twenty-five dollars or more, exclusive of costs..
§ 3018. Id ; when execution may issue against person. If the action,
in which the judgment is rendered, is one of the actions specified in subdi
vision first or second, of section 2895 of this act, or if an order of arrest was
granted, and was executed, in a case specified in subdivision third of that
section, and, in either case, if the defendant is a male person, the justice
must insert, in each transcript given by him, as prescribed in the last sec
tion, the words, " defendant liable to execution against his person ; " and a
like note must also be made in the docket of the judgment, made by the
county clerk.
§ 3019. Id. ; in action for a chattel. A justice of the peace, who ren
ders judgment for a chattel, which has been delivered to the unsuccessful
party, or for the value thereof, in case a return thereof cannot be had, must,
where the value exceeds twenty-five dollars, upon the application of the
party in whose favor the judgment was rendered, and payment of the fee
therefore, deliver to him a transcript of the judgment, stating the particulars
thereof. The county clerk of the county, in which the judgment was ren
dered, must, upon the presentation of the transcript and payment of the
fees therefore, indorse thereupon the date of its receipt, file it in his office,
and docket the judgment, as of the time of the receipt of the transcript, in
the book kept by him for that purpose, as prescribed in article third of title
first of chapter eleventh of this act, and must also enter in the docket the
particulars of the judgment, as stated in the transcript of the justice.
Thenceforth the judgment is deemed a judgment of the county court of that
county, and must be enforced accordingly ; except that an- execution can be
issued thereupon only by the county clerk, as prescribed in section 3043 of
this act.
§ 3020. Judgment against joint debtors. Where an action is brought
against two or more persons, jointly indebted upon contract, and the sum
mons is served upon one or more, but not upon all of them, if the plaintifff
recovers judgment, it must be entered against all, in the mode prescribed in
section 1932 of this act. Sections 1933, 1934, and 1935 of this act apply to
such a judgment, and to each execution issued thereupon ; except that,
where the justice or the county clerk issues the execution, he must make the
endorsement prescribed in section 1934 of this act.
§ 3021. Docketing the same ; action thereupon. The justice who
gives a transcript of a judgment, taken as prescribed in the last section,
must distinctly designate, in the transcript, each defendant who was not
summoned. Thereupon the clerk, who dockets the judgment, must make in
the docket, under or opposite the name of each defendant not summoned, an
entry, as prescribed in section 1936 of this act ; and the provisions of that
section apply to the judgment so docketed. An action, upon a judgment so
docketed, can be maintained in a justice's court against the defendants sum
moned, only in a like case, and with like effect, as if they were the only
defendants in the original action. An action may be maintained against
the defendants not summoned, as prescribed in section 1937 of this act, in
any court having jurisdiction thereof; and the plaintifff is entitled to costs,
upon recovering fi.n.al judgment therein, where the sum remaining unpaid is
twenty-five dollars or more.
§ 3022. Docketing judgment in another county. The clerk, with
whom a transcript given by a justice is filed, as prescribed in either of the
foregoing sections of this title, must furnish to any person applying therefore,
and paying the fees allowed by law, one or more transcripts of the docket
of the judgment, attested by his signature. A county clerk to whom such a
transcript is presented, must, upon payment of the fees therefore, imme
diately file it, and docket the judgment in the appropriate docket-book kept
in his office, in like manner as the judgment was docketed by the first county
clerk. The judgment, when docketed as prescribed in this section, has the
like effect, with respect to the enforcement thereof, or any proceedings there
under, or by virtue thereof, in the county where it was so docketed, as if it
was rendered by a justice of the peace of that county, and docketed upon
filing his transcript ; except that where an application for leave to issue an
execution is necessary, it must be made to the county court of the county
where the judgment was rendered.
§ 3023. Justice may give transcript, after expiration of his term. A
justice of the peace, whose term of office has expired, may make a transcript
of a judgment rendered by him, as prescribed in either of the foregoing
sections of this title.
When justice may issue execution.
General requisites of execution.
Execution upon judgment for money.
Renewal of execution.
Property exempt from execution.
Indorsement of levy ; notice of Bale.
Mode of levy and sale.
Return of execution.
Execution against the person ; imprisonment of judgment debtor.
When j udgment debtor to be discharged.
Affidavit ; discharge.
Penalty for not discharging.
Affidavit a defense to action for escape.
Discharge not to affect judgment.
Execution upon judgment in action for a chattel.
Action against constable for not returning execution.
Constable not to act under execution after return day.
Action against constable for money collected.
Duty of constable whose term of office has expired.
Execution upon judgment docketed with county clerk.

§ 3024. When justice may issue execution At any time within five
years after entry of a judgment, the justice of the peace, who rendered it,
being in office, may issue an execution thereupon, unless it has been docketed
in the county clerk's office.
§ 3025. General requisites of execution. An execution, issued by a
justice, must be directed generally to any constable of the same county. It
must intelligibly describe the judgment, stating the names of the parties in
whose favor, and against whom, the time when, and the name of the justice
by whom, the judgment was rendered ; and it must be made returnable to
the justice, within sixty days after its date.
§ 3026. Execution upon judgment for money. An execution, issued
upon a judgment for a sum of money, must specify, in the body thereof, the
sum recovered, and the sum actually due upon the. judgment at the date of
the execution ; and, except in a case where special provision is otherwise
made by law, it must, substantially, require the constable to satisfy the judg
ment, together with his fees, out of the personal property of the judgment
debtor within the county, not exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an
execution; and to bring the money before the justice, by the return day of
the execution, to be rendered, by the justice, to the party who recovered the
judgment. If the judgment was recovered against a male person, in either
of the actions specified in subdivision first or second of section 2895 of this
act ; or if an order of arrest was granted, and was executed, in a case speci
fied in subdivision third of that section, the execution must also command the
constable, if sufficient personal property cannot be found to satisfy the judg
ment, to arrest the judgment debtor, and to convey him to the jail of the
county, there to remain until he pays the judgment, or is discharged accord
ing to law. If the judgment was rendered in an action to recover a penalty
or forfeiture given by a statute of the State, the justice must indorse upon the
execution a reference to the statute, as prescribed in section 1897 of this act,
with respect to a copy of the summons.
§ 3027. Renewal of execution. After the return, wholly or partly
unsatisfied, of an execution, issued by a justice of the peace, he may, from
time to time, within five years after the judgment was rendered, issue a new
execution or renew the former execution. An execution is renewed by a
written indorsement thereupon to that effect, signed by the justice, and dated
upon the day when it is made. If part of the execution has been satisfied,
the indorsement must state the sum remaining due. Each indorsement
renews the execution for sixty days from the date thereof. A justice whose
term of office has expired may thus issue or renew an execution.
§3028. Property exempt from execution. The same personal property
is exempt from levy and sale, by virtue of an execution issued by a justice
of the peace, which is exempt from levy and sale, by virtue of an execution
issued out of the supreme court, and in the like cases, and under the same
circumstances, as prescribed in sections 1389, 1390, 1391, 1392, 1393,-and
1394 of this act, and the other special provisions of law, relating to such an
exemption.
§ 3029. Indorsement of levy ; notice of sale. A constable, who takes
personal property into his custody, by virtue of an execution, must indorse
upon the execution the time of levying upon it. He must immediately post
conspicuously, in at least three public places of the city or town, in which
the property was taken, written or printed notices, signed by him, describing
the property, and specifying the place, within the same city or town, where,
and the time not less than six days after the posting, when, it will be exposed
for sale.
8 3030. Mode of levy and sale. The provisions of sections 1384, 1385,
1386, 1387, 1405, 1409, 1410, 1411, 1412, and 1428 of this act, substituting
the constable for the sheriff, apply to and govern the levy upon and sale of
personal property, by virtue of an execution issued by a justice of the peace ;
except where a different rule is prescribed in this act.
§ 3031. Return of execution. The constable must return the execution
to the justice and pay to him the amount of the judgment, with interest, or
so much thereof as he has collected ; returning the surplus, if any, to the
person from whose property it was collected.
§ 3032. Execution against the person ; imprisonment of judgment
debtor. For want of sufficient personal property, whereon to levy, the
constable must, if the execution requires it, arrest the judgment debtor, and
convey him to the jail of the county. The keeper of the jail must there
upon keep the judgment debtor in custody, in all respects as if the execu
tion was issued out of the supreme court, until the judgment and the fees
of the constable are paid ; or until the judgment debtor is thence dis
charged, in due course of law ; except that if the execution has an indorse
ment, showing that the judgment was rendered in an action for a penalty or
forfeiture, giving by a statute of the State, the sheriff shall not admit the
judgment debtor to the liberties of the jail.
§ 3033. When judgment debtor to be discharged. If a person com
mitted to jail by virtue of an execution issued by a justice of the peace, or out of
the municipal court of Buffalo, or by virtue of an execution issued by a county
clerk on a transcript of a judgment recovered before a justice of the peace, or in
the said municipal court of Buffalo, has a family within the State, for which
he provides, he must be discharged, after remaining in custody either with
or without being admitted to the jail liberties thirty days ; otherwise, he
must be discharged after so remaining sixty days. [Am'd Ch. 394 op 1883.]
§ 3034. Affidavit ; discharge. In order to procure a discharge, as pre
scribed in the last section, the prisoner must make, and deliver to the sheriff
or jailor, an affidavit, stating the facts which entitle him thereto, according
to the provisions of that section. Upon receiving such an affidavit, the
sheriff or jailor must forthwith discharge the prisoner from his custody.
He must thereupon deliver the affidavit to the clerk of the county, who must
file it in his office, without fee.
§ 3035. Penalty for not discharging. A sheriff or jailor, who refuses
to discharge the prisoner, upon receiving such an affidavit, forfeits twentyfive dollars for each day, during which he detains the prisoner ; to be recov
ered by the latter, in addition to any damages, which he sustains by reason
of the false imprisonment.
§ 3036. Affidavit a defense to action for escape. The receipt of such
an a'ffidavit is a defense, to an action brought against the sheriff or jailor,
by reason of the prisoner's discharge.
§ 3037. Discharge not to affect judgment. Notwithstanding the dis
charge of a judgment debtor, as prescribed in the last four sections, the
judgment remains valid as against his property; and a new execution may
be issued accordingly, as it he had not been imprisoned.
§ 3038. Execution upon judgment in action for a chattel In an
action for a chattel, the possession of which has not been delivered to the
prevailing party, an execution for the delivery of .the possession thereof to
him, as well as for any damages recovered by him, may be issued by the
justice ; unless the judgment has been docketed in the county clerk's office,
as prescribed in title sixth of this chapter. It must be to the same effect,
and executed in the same manner, as a like execution issued upon a judg
ment rendered in the supreme court ; except that it must be directed gener
ally to any constable of the county ; and that the direction to satisfy a sum
of money, out of the property of the judgment debtor, must be in the form
prescribed in this title for a like direction, where an execution is issued by a
justice of the peace, upon a judgment for a sum of money.
§ 3039. Action against constable for not returning execution If a
constable fails to return an execution within five days after the return day
thereof, the party, in whose favor it was issued, may recover, in an action
against the constable, the amount of the execution, if it was issued upon a
judgment for a sum of money; or if it was for the delivery of the possession
of a chattel, the value of the chattel, as specified in the judgment, together
with the damages and costs awarded thereby ; and, in either case, with
interest from the time when the judgment was rendered.
§ 3040. Constable not to act under execution after return day. A
constable shall not levy upon or sell property, or arrest a defendant, or take
§ 3040. Constable not to act under execution after return day. A
constable shall not levy upon or sell property, or arrest a defendant, or take
possession of a chattel, by virtue of an execution, after the time limited
therein for its return, unless the execution has been renewed ; nor shall he
do any act under a renewed execution, after the expiration of the time for
which it has been renewed.
8 3041 . Action against constable for money collected Where money,
collected by a constable upon an execution, is not paid over by him according
to law, any person entitled thereto may maintain an action in his own name,
upon the instrument of security given by the constable or his sureties ; and
may recover therein the sum so collected, with interest from the time when
it was collected.
§ 3042. Duty of constable whose term of office has expired A con
stable, to whom an execution is delivered, whose term of office expires on or
before the return day thereof, must proceed thereupon in the same manner,
as if his term of office had not expired ; and he and his sureties are liable
for any neglect of duty, with respect to the execution ; or for money collected
thereunder, or for damages sustained by reason of any act done by the con
stable, touching the execution, in the same manner, and to the same extent,
as if his term of office had not expired.
§ 3043. Execution upon judgment docketed with county clerk.
"Where a judgment, rendered by a justice of the peace, has been docketed
with a county clerk, upon the filing either of a transcript from the justice's
docket, or of a transcript from the clerk's docket of another county, the exe
cution, to be issued thereupon by the county clerk, must be in the same
form, and executed in the same manner, as an execution issued upon a
judgment of the county court ; except as otherwise prescribed in section
1367 of this act ; and except, also, that, where the judgment is for a sum
less than twenty-five dollars, exclusive of costs, the direction to satisfy the
1'udgment out of the real property of the judgment debtor must be omitted,
n that case the provisions of this act, relating to the satisfaction of an exe
cution out of the judgment debtor's real property, are not applicable thereto.
Justice's judgment reviewed by appeal.
Who may appeal. To what court appeal to be taken.
Appeal ; when and how taken.
Service of notice upon justice j payment of costs and fees.
Service of notice upon respondent.
Amendment when allowed.
Undertaking to stay execution upon judgment.
Proceedings ; how stayed.
Id. ; when justice is dead, et".
Return.
Id. ; when justice has gone out of office.
Further return j how compelled.
Id. ; when justice is dead, etc.
Proceedings when error in fact is alleged.
Restitution upon reversal.
Setting off costs and recovery.
Certain sums may be included in disbursements.
Judgment-roll.

§ 3044. Justice's judgment reviewed by appeal The only mode of
reviewing a judgment, rendered by a justice of the peace in a civil action,
ia by an appeal, as prescribed in this title.
§ 3045 Who may appeal To what court appeal to be taken. An
appeal may be taken by any party aggrieved by the judgment. Where the
judgment was rendered by a justice of the peace of the city of Buffalo, the
appeal must be to the superior court of that city ; in every other case, it
must be to the county court of the county where the judgment was Ten
dered.
§ 3046. Appeal ; when and how taken An appeal must be taken,
within twenty days after the entry of the judgment in the justice's docket;
except that, where a defendant appeals from a judgment rendered in an
action, wherein he did not appear and the summons was not personally
served upon him, the appeal may be taken within twenty days after per
sonal service upon him on the part of the plaintifff, of written notice of the
entry of the judgment; but not after the expiration of five years from the
entry of the judgment. An appeal is taken by serving upon the justice by
whom the judgment was rendered, and upon the respondent, a written
not ice of appeal, subscribed either by the appellant or by his attorney in the appellate
court. [Am'd Ch. 399 of 1882. See § 2.]
§ 3047. Service of notice upon justice ; payment of costs and feesService of the notice of appeal upon the justice, must- be made by deliver
ing to him personally, or to his clerk, appointed pursuant to law ; but if
the justice is dead, or if neither he nor his clerk can, after reasonable dili
gence, be found within the county, service of the notice upon the justice
may be made, by delivering it to the clerk of the appellate court. Unless
the justice is dead, the appellant must, at the time of serving the notice,
pay to the person to whom it is delivered the costs of the action, included in
the judgment, and the sum of two dollars, as the fee of the justice for
making the return.
§ 3048. Service of notice upon respondent. Service of the notice of
appeal upon the respondent may be made, by delivering it, in any part of
the State, to the respondent, personally, or in one of the following methods :
1. If the respondent is a resident of the county, by leaving it at his resi
dence, with a person of suitable age and discretion. If he is not a resident
of the county, and the person who appeared as his attorney upon the trial
is a resident thereof, it may be served upon the attorney, either personally,
or by leaving it at his residence, with a person of suitable age and dis
cretion.
2. If service within the county cannot be made, with due diligence, upon
the respondent personally, or in the method prescribed in the foregoing
subdivision, the notice of appeal may be «erved upon him, by delivering it
to the clerk of the appellate court.
8 3049. Amendment when allowed. Where the appellant, seasonably
and in good faith, serves the notice of appeal, upon either the justice or the
respondent, but omits, through mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect,
to serve it upon the other, or to do any other act necessary to perfect the
appeal, the appellate court, upon proof by affidavit of the facts, may, in its
discretion, permit the omission to be supplied, or an amendment to be made,
upon such terms as justice requires.
§ 3050. Undertaking to stay execution upon judgment. If the
appellant desires a stay of execution, he must give a written undertaking,
executed by one or more sureties, approved by the justice who rendered the
judgment, or by a judge of the appellate court, to the effect that, if the
appeal is dismissed ; or if judgment is rendered against the appellant in
the appellate court, and an execution issued thereupon is returned wholly or
partly unsatisfied ; the sureties will pay the amount of the judgment, or the
portion thereof remaining unsatisfied, not exceeding a sum, specified in the
undertaking, which must be at least one hundred dollars, and not less than
twice the amount of the judgment; or, if the judgment in the justice's court
is for the recovery of a chattel, that the sureties will pay the sum fixed by
that judgment as the value of the chattel, together with the damages, if any,
awarded for the taking, withholding, or detention thereof. A copy of the
undertaking, with a notice of the delivery thereof, must be served with the
notice of appeal, and in like manner. Section 1335 of this act applies to
such an undertaking.
§ 3051. Proceedings ; how stayed. The delivery of the undertaking
to the justice or to his clerk appointed pursuant to law, and service of a copy
thereof, and of notice of the delivery thereof, stay the issuing of an execution
upon the judgment. If an execution has been issued, the service of a copy
of the undertaking, certified by the justice or the clerk, or accompanied with
an affidavit, showing that it is a copy, and that the original has been duly
filed, upon the officer holding the execution, stays further proceedings
thereunder.
§ 3052. Id. ; where justice is dead, etc. Where the justice is dead, or
cannct, with due diligence, be found within the county, and he has nd clerk,
appointed pursuant, to law, or the clerk cannot, with due diligence, be found
within the county, the undertaking may be filed with the clerk of the appel
late court. In that case, notice of the filing must be given to the respondent,
as prescribed in section 3048 of this act, for service of a notice of appeal
upon him. The filing of the undertaking has the same effect, as the delivery
thereof to the justice; and a copy thereof, certified by the county clerk,
served upon the officer holding an execution, has the same effect, as if it was
certified as prescribed in the last section.
§ 3053. Return. The justice must, after ten and within thirty days from
the service of the notice of appeal, and the payment of the costs and fee, as
prescribed in section 3047 of this act, make a return to the appellate court,
annex thereto the notice of appeal and the undertaking, if any has been
delivered to him or to his clerk, and file the same with the clerk of the appel
late court. The return miist contain all the proceedings, including the evi
dence and the judgment; unless the appellant has, in his notice of appeal,
demanded a new trial, in a case where he is entitled thereto, as prescribed
in article third of this title. In the latter case, the justice must return the
summons, together with each warrant of attachment, order of arrest, or
requisition to replevy, or execution granted by him in the action, with the
proof of the service thereof ; the pleadings, or copies thereof : the proceed
ings upon the trial ; and the judgment ; with a brief statement of the amount
and nature of the claims litigated by the parties. But he need not return the
evidence, or any part thereof, unless he is required so to do by the special
order of the appellate court.
§ 3054. Id. ; when justice has gone out of office. Where the justice has
gone out of office, he must, nevertheless, make a return in the same manner,
and his return has the same effect, as if he remained in office.
,
§ 3055, Further return ; how compelled. If the return is defective, the
appellate court may direct the justice to make a fvirther or amended return,
as often as is necessary. The appellate court may compel the justice, by
attachment, to make and file a return, or a further or amended return. The
court is always open for those purposes. Where the justice has removed
to another county of the State, the appellate court may compel him to make
the return, as if he was still within the county where the judgment was
rendered.
§ 3056. Id ; when justice is dead, etc. If the justice dies, becomes a
lunatic, absconds, removes from the State, or otherwise becomes unable to
make the return, the appellate court may receive affidavits, or examine wit
nesses, as to the evidence and other proceedings taken, and the judgment
rendered, before the justice ; and may determine the appeal, as if a return
had been duly made by the justice.
§ 3057. Proceedings when error in fact is alleged. Where an appeal
is founded upon an error in fact in the proceedings, not affecting the merits
of the action, and not within the knowledge of the justice, the court may
determine the matter upon affidavits ; or, in its discretion, upon the examina
tion of witnesses ; or in both methods.
§ 3058. Restitution upon reversal Where the judgment of the justice
is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make or compel restitution of
property or of a right, lost by means of the erroneous judgment ; but not so as
to affect the title of a purchaser, in good faith and for value, of property sold
by virtue of a warrant of attachment in the action, or an execution issued
upon the judgment. In that case, the appellate court may compel the value,
or the purchase-price to be restored, or deposited to abide the event of the
action, as justice requires. Six days' notice of an application for an order
for restitution must be given ; and if the application is granted before judg
ment, the proper direction may be included therein.
§ 3059. Setting off costs and recovery. If, upon the appeal, a sum of
money is awarded to one party, and costs are awarded to the adverse party,
the appellate court must set off the one against the other, and render judgment
for the balance.
§ 3060. Certain sums may be included in disbursements. Where
costs are awarded to the appellant, he may include, in the disbursements
upon the appeal, the costs and fee paid to the justice upon taking the appeal ;
and, where the judgment rendered by the justice was against the appellant,
he may also include, in those disbursements, the costs of the action, before the
justice, which he would have been entitled to recover, if the judgment of the
justice had been in his favor.
§ 3061. Judgment-roll The clerk, immediately after entering final
judgment upon the determination of an appeal, must attach together and
file such of the following papers, as were used upon the appeal; which con
stitute the judgment-roll
1. The return of tne justice, or a certified copy thereof ; the notice of
appeal ; and the undertaking, if any has been given.
2. The verdict, report, or decision, and each offer, if any, made as prescribed
in article third of this title.
3. A certified copy of the judgment, Together with each notice of exceptions,
or case, which is then on file.
4. Every other paper, then on file, and a certified copy of every order,
which in any way involves the merits, or necessarily affects the judgment.
§ 3062. Hearing of appeal ; dismissal thereof If the case is one
where the appellant is not entitled to, or has not demanded, a new trial in
the appellate court, as prescribed in section 3068 of this act, the respondent
may, within twenty days of the service on him of the notice of appeal, serve upon
the appellant or his attorney a written stipulation that the judgment appealed
from may be reversed with five dollars costs and disbursements of the appeal, and
thereafter no further steps shall be taken in such appeal, except to enter judgment
in pursuance of such stipulation for the enforcement thereof; in case such stipula
tion shall not be so served, the appeal may be brought to a hearing in the
appellate court, at any term thereof, at which such an appeal can be heard,
held after the return is filed, upon a notice by either party, of not less than
eight days. It must be placed upon the calendar; and must continue
thereupon, without further notice, until it is finally disposed of. If, after
being regularly placed upon the calendar, neither party brings it to a hear
ing before the end of the second term thereafter, at which it might be
noticed for hearing, and heard, the court must dismiss the appeal, unless it
■directs the same to be continued, for cause shown. If the appeal is to the
superior court Buffalo, it must be heard at a general term thereof. [Am'd
Ch. 390 op 1883.]
§ 3063. Judgment. In a case specified in the last section, the appeal
must be heard upon the original papers, or a certified copy thereof; and a copy
or copies thereof need not be furnished for the use of the court. The appellate
court must render judgment according to the justice of the case, without regard
to technical errors or defects, which do not affect the merits. It may alfirm
or reverse the judgment of the justice, in whole or in part, and as to any or
all of the parties, and for errors of law or of fact.
§ 3064. When new trial in justice's court may be directed If the
appeal is taken by a defendant, who failed to appear before the justice,
either upon the return of the summons, or at the time to which the trial of the
action was adjourned ; and he shows, by affidavit or otherwise, that manifest
injustice has been done, and renders a satisfactory excuse for his default ; the
appellate court, may, in its discretion, set aside the judgment appealed from,
or stay proceedings thereunder, and by order direct a new trial, before the
same justice, or before another justice of the same county, designated in the
order, at such a time and place, specified in the order and upon such terms, as
it deems proper.
§ 3065. Id ; proceedings before justice. Where a new trial is directed
before a justice, as prescribed in the last section, the parties must appear
before him, at the time and place specified in the order of the appellate
court, without service of any notice, or of a copy of the order. Thereupon
the like proceedings must be had in the action, as upon the return of a sum
mons personally served.
§ 3066. Costs ; when awarded. Upon an appeal provided for in this
article, the award of costs is regulated as follows :
1. If the appeal is dismissed, because neither party brings it to a hearing,
as prescribed in this article, costs shall not be awarded to either party.
2. If the judgment is reversed for an error in fact, not affecting the
merits ; or if a new trial is directed, before the same or another justice, as
prescribed in this article ; the costs of the appeal are in the discretion of the
appellate court.
3. If the judgment is affirmed, costs must be awarded to the respondent.
4. If the judgment is reversed, costs must be awarded to the appellant.
5. If the judgment is affirmed only in part, the costs, or such a part
thereof, as to the appellate court seems just, not exceeding ten dollars,
besides disbursements, may be awarded to either party.
§ 3067. Amount of costs. Upon an appeal, provided for in this article,
costs, when awarded, must be as follows, besides disbursements:
To the appellant, upon reversal, thirty dollars.
To the respondent, upon affirmance, twenty-five dollars.
When appellant may demand new trial in appellate court.
Undertaking to be given.
Offer to compromise before return.
Proceedings in appellate court.
Offer to compromise after return.
Amount of costs.
3068. When appellant may demand new trial in appellate court.
ere an issue of fact or an issue of law was joined before the justice, and
the sum, for which judgment was demanded by either party in his pleading,
exceeds fifty dollars ; or where, in an action to recover a chattel, the value
of the property, as fixed, together with the damages recovered, if any,
exceeds fifty dollars ; the appellant may, in his notice of appeal, demand a
new trial in the appellate court; and thereupon he is entitled thereto,
whether the defendant was or was not present at the trial.
§ 3069. Undertaking to be given To render such an appeal effectual,
the appellant must, at the time of the service of the notice of appeal upon
the justice, give the undertaking required, by this title, to stay the execu
tion of the judgment.
J| 3070. Officer to compromise before return Upon an appeal, proed for in this article, from a judgment for a sum of money only, the
respondent may, within fifteen days after service of the notice of appeal
upon him, and before the return is filed, serve upon the appellant, or his
attorney, a written offer, to allow judgment to be rendered in tl.e appellate
court, in favor of either party, for a specified sum. If the offer is not ac
cepted, it cannot be proved upon the trial. If the appellant, within five
days after service of the offer, serves upon the respondent, or his attorney,
written notice that he accepts the offer, he must file it, with an affidavit of
service of the notice of acceptance, with the clerk of the appellate court, who
thereupon must enter judgment accordingly. In such a case, the appellant
is entitled to recover his costs in the court below, and his disbursements upon
the appeal, including the costs and fee, if any, paid to the justice upon
taking the appeal ; but neither party is entitled to costs upon the appeal.
If an offer is not made, and the verdict, report, or decision, upon the appeal,
is more favorable to the appellant, by the sum of ten dollars, than the ver
dict or decision in the court below ; or if an offer is made and not accepted,
and the verdict, report, or decision, upon the appeal, is more favorable to
the appellant, by the sum of ten dollars, than the amount of the offer ; the
appellant is entitled to recover costs upon the appeal : otherwise, the re
spondent is entitled to recover costs.
§ 3071. Proceedings in appellate court Upon an appeal, provided for
in this article, after the expiration of ten days from the time of filing the
justice's return, the action is deemed an action at issue in the appellate court;
and all the proceedings therein, including the entry, enforcement, and review
of the judgment, are the same, as if the action had been commenced in the
appellate court, except as otherwise specially prescribed in this chapter.
§ 3072. Offer to compromise after return. Either party may, at any
time after the action is deemed at issue in the appellate court, and before
the trial, serve upon the adverse party, a written offer to allow judgment to
be t:iken against him, for a sum, or property, or to the effect, therein speci
fied, with or without costs. If there are two or more defendants, and the
action can be severed, a like offer may be made by one or more defendants,
against whom a separate- judgment may be taken ; and, if it is accepted,
the action becomes severed, and may proceed against the other defendants,
as if it had been originally commenced against them only. If the party
receiving the offer, within ten days thereafter, serves upon the adverse party,
notice that he accepts it, he may file it, with proof of acceptance ; and there
upon the clerk must enter judgment accordingly. If the offer is not thus
accepted, it cannot be proved upon the trial ; and if the party, to whom it
was made, fails to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs
from the time of the offer, but must pay costs from that time.
§ 3073. Amount of costs. Upon an appeal, provided for in this article,
costs, when awarded, must be as follows, besides disbursements :
For all proceedings before notice of trial, fifteen dollars.
For all subsequent proceedings before trial, ten dollars.
For the trial of an issue of law, fifteen dollars
For the trial of an issue of fact, twenty dollars.
For the argument of a motion for a new trial on a case, fifteen dollars.
For each term, not more than five, at which the appeal is regularly on the
calendar, excluding the term, at which it is tried, or otherwise finally dis
posed of, ten dollars.
Costs upon demurrer.
Taxation of costs.
Increased costs.
Costa on judgment for one or more defendants.
Costs wrongfully collected may be recovered back.
§ 3074. When prevailing party to recover costs. What costs
allowed. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by law, a party who
recovers judgment in an action in a justice's court, is entitled to costs ; which
must be included in the judgment. Costs consist of the fees, allowed by law,
for services necessarily rendered in the action, at the request of the party
entitled to costs, or paid by him, as prescribed by law ; and of syich other
expenses, as a party is entitled to include in his costs, by express provision
of law.
§ 3075. When neither party to recover costs. In either of the follow
ing cases, costs shall not be awarded to either party, but each party must
pay his own costs :
1. Where the action is discontinued by the absence of the justice for more
than one hour, after the summons is returnable, or after the time to which
the trial has been adjourned.
2. Where the justice is disqualified, for a reason specified in section 46
of this act.
3. Where the action is discontinued, upon the ground that the defendant
is an infant, for whom a guardian ad litem has not been appointed.
4. In an action to recover one or more chattels, where the plaintifff recovers
a chattel, or part of a chattel, or the value 'thereof, and the defendant also
recovers a chattel, or part of a chattel, which has be%n replevied and delivered
to the plaintifff, or the value thereof. The plaintifff is entitled to costs, where
both parties recover, as specified in this subdivision, unless the chattel, for
which the defendant recovers, has been replevied and delivered to the
plaintifff.
§ 3076. Amount of costs limited. The sum to be awarded, as costs, to
otherwise specially prescribed by
law, is limited as follows :
1. It cannot exceed ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, where, upon
the trial of an issue of fact or of law, either party recovers damages to the
amount of fifty dollars or more, or one or more chattels, the value of which,
as fixed, together with the damages, if any, amounts to fifty dollars or more ;
or, where, if the defendant recovers judgment, the sum, for which the plain
tiff demanded judgment, was fifty dollars, or more, or the value of all the
chattels, to recover which the action was brought, was stated in the com
plaint at fifty dollars or more.
2. In every other case, it cannot exceed five dollars, besides the fees of
witnesses, attending from another county.
But the prevailing party is entitled, in addition to the sums specified in
this section, to the fees and expenses allowed by law, for a commission issued
to examine a witness, not residing in the county, or in an adjoining county ;
and for each adjournment, exceeding one, which was granted upon the
application of the party, against whom the judgment is rendered.
§ 3077. Costs upon demurrer. Where judgment is rendered upon the
trial of a demurrer, the costs of the trial must be included therein ; otherwise
costs are not allowed upon the trial of a demurrer.
§ 3078. Taxation of costs. Where a justice renders a judgment, he must
specify, in his docket-book, the items of costs, which were allowed by him.
Before any item of costs is thus allowed, other than a fee to the justice, or to
a juror or witness who attended, or to a constable who has certified the
amount of his fee, upon a paper filed with the justice, the party must show,
by his oath, or that of his attorney, to the satisfaction of the justice, that the
item was actually and legally paid or incurred.
§ 3079. Increased costs. Increased costs must be awarded in favor of
the defendant, in an action in a justice's court, in a case, and increased at
the rate, specified in section 3258 of this act.
§ 3080. Costs on judgment for one or more defendants. In an action
against two or more defendants, not united in interest, who make separate
defenses by separate answers, if the plaintifff fails to recover judgment
against all, the justice must award costs to those who have judgment in their
favor.
§ 3081. Costs •wrongfully collected may be recovered back. Where
a justice includes in a judgment a greater amount of costs than is allowed
by law, or an improper item of costs or fees, and the same is collected ; the
person from whom it was collected may, notwithstanding the judgment,
recover from the justice who has received it the amount thereof, with interest.
§ 3082. Action against person suffering animate to stray. Any
person who suffers or permits one or more cattle, horses, colts, asses, mules,
swine, sheep, or goats, to run at large, or to be herded or pastured, in a
public street, highway, park, or place, elsewhere thau in a city, incurs
thereby the penalty or penalties specified in the next section ; and any resi
dent of the town, or the officer to whom a fine or penalty is to be paid for
the benefit of the poor, as prescribed in section 2875 of this act, or the over
seer or superintendent of the poor of the town or district, in which one or
more of those animals are found so running at large, herded or pastured,
may maintain an action against him, in a justice's court, held in that town
or district, to recover the penalty or penalties so incurred. Where the action
is brought by a private person, the justice must pay the proceeds of an exeution, issued upon a judgment therein in favor of the plaintifff, after deduct
ing the costs, to the officer, who might have brought the action, as prescribed
in this section, to be applied by him to the support of the poor within his
town or district.
§ 3083. Penalties to be recovered. If the plaintifff recovers judgment,
in an action brought as prescribed in the last section, the justice must award
to him the following sums, by way of penalties, besides the costs of the
action :
1. For each horse, colt, ass, mule, swine, bull, ox, cow, or calf, five dollars.
2. For each sheep or goat, one dollar.
The entire amount of the penalties may be recovered in one action,
although it exceeds the sum, for which a justice can render a judgment in
an ordinary action.
§ 3084. Certain officers to seize animals straying. Where one or
more cattle, horses, colts, asses, mules, swine, sheep or goats are found run
ning at large, or being herded or pastured, in a public street, highway,
park, or place, elsewhere than in a city, the overseer of highways of the
road district, or, if they are so found within an incorporated village, the
street commissioner thereof, having personal knowledge or being notified of
the fact, must immediately seize the animal or animals, and keep it or them
in his possession, until disposed of as prescribed in the following sections of
this title.
§ 3085. When private person may seize such animals. Any person
may seize one or more animals specified in the last section, then running at
large, or being herded or pastured, in a public street, highway, park, or
place, elsewhere than in a city, bordering upon real property owned or occu
pied by him ; or then trespassing upon real property so owned or occupied,
having entered thereupon from such a public street, highway, park, or place.
The person making the seizure, must keep the animal or animals seized in
his possession, until disposed of as prescribed in the following sections of
this title.
§ 3086. Officer or person seizing to present petition. An officer or
other person, who seizes an animal or animals, as prescribed in either of the
last two sections, must immediately file, with a justice of the peace of the
town in which the seizure was made, a written petition, verified by his
oath ; setting forth the facts, which "bring the case within either of those
sections ; briefly describing the animal or animals seized ; stating either the
name of the owner, or that his name is not known to the petitioner, and
cannot be ascertained by him with reasonable diligence ; and praying for a
final order directing the sale of the animal or animals seized, and the
application of the proceeds thereof, as prescribed in this title. Where the
petition alleges, that any animal or animals seized, were then trespassing
upon real property owned or occupied by the petitioner, it must state the
amount of the damages, if any, which the petitioner has sustained thereby.
In that case, the decision of the justice, or, where the issues are tried by a
jury, the verdict, must fix the amount of the damages.
§ 3087. Precept thereupon. Upon the presentation of the petition, the
justice must issue a precept under his hand; directed to the owner, if his
name is stated in the petition, or if it is not so stated, directed generally to
all persons having any interest in the animal or animals seized ; briefly
reciting the substance of the petition; describing the animal or animals
seized, and requiring the person or persons, to whom the precept is directed,
to show cause before the justice, at a time and place specified therein, not
less than ten nor more than twenty days, after the issuing of the precept,
why the prayer of the petition should not be granted.
§ 3088. Id. ; how served. The precept must be served upon the person,
to whom it is directed by his name, within the same time, and in like man
ner as a summons is required to be served, as prescribed in section 2010 of
this act. Where it is directed generally to all persons, having an interest in
the animal or animals seized, it may be served by a constable of the town,
or by an elector thereof, specially authorized so to do by a written indorse
ment upon the precept, under the hand of the justice, by posting a copy
thereof in at least six public and conspicuous places in the town where the
seizure was made ; one of which places must be the nearest district schoolhouse, or, if the seizure was made within an incorporated village, having
schools in charge of a board of education, a building in which such a school
is kept. Each copy must be posted, within two days after the precept is
issued. Where the precept is directed to a person by "his name, and proof is
made by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the justice, that it cannot, with
reasonable diligence, be personally served upon that person, within the
county, at least six days before the return day thereof, the justice may, by
a written order, direct that service thereof be made, by posting copies
thereof, at least five days before the return day, as prescribed in this section;
in which case, service thereof may be made accordingly.
§ 3089. Proof of service of precept. At the place where the precept is
returnable, and at the expiration of the time specified in section 2893 of this
act, the petitioner must, unless the precept is directed to a person by his
name, and he appears, furnish proof of the service of the precept, as pre
scribed in the last section. If it was served by a constable, either personally
or by posting, his written return upon the precept is sufficient proof of the
facts relating to the service, as stated therein. If it was served by a private
person, proof of service must be made by affidavit.
§ 3090. Answer; trial. The owner, or a person having an interest in any
animal seized, may appear upon the return of the precept, and thereby make
himself a party to the special proceeding. The person so appearing may,
upon the return of the precept, file a written answer, subscribed by him or
his attorney, and verified by the oath of the person subscribing it, denying,
absolutely or upon information and belief, one or more material allegations
contained in the petition. His answer must also set forth his interest in the
animal or animals seized. The subsequent proceedings must be the same as
in an action in a justice's court, wherein an issue of fact has been joined,
except as otherwise specially prescribed in this title.
§ 3091. Decision in favor of petitioner ; warrant to sell ; execution
thereof If no Derson appears and answers, or if the decision of the justice,
or the verdict of the jury, where the issues were tried by a jury, is in favor
of the petitioner, the justice must make a final order, directing the sale of
the animal or animals seized, and the application of the proceeds thereof, as
prescribed in this title. Thereupon the justice must issue a warrant, under
his hand, directed generally to any constable of the county, commanding
him to sell the animal or animals seized, at public auction, for the best price
which he can obtain therefore ; and to make return thereof to the justice, at
a time and place therein specified, not less than ten nor more than twenty
days thereafter. The sale must be made upon the like notice, and in like
manner, as a sale of property, by virtue of an execution issued by a justice
of the peace ; and the constable must make return, as required by the war
rant, and must pay the proceeds of the sale to the justice, deducting there
from his fees, at the rate allowed by law for the collection of such an
execution.
§ 3092. Application of proceeds of sale. The j ustice must apply the
proceeds of the sale as follows :
>
1. He must pay the costs of the petitioner, as taxed by the justice, at the
same rates as the costs of an action brought before him, including the jus
tice's fees in such an action ; and also the fees for the service of the precept
either personally or by posting, at the rate allowed by law for personal ser
vice of a summons by a constable.
2. Out of the remainder of the proceeds, he may retain, to his own use, a
fee of one dollar, for each animal sold
3. Out of the remainder of the proceeds, he must pay to the officer, or
other person making the seizure, the following fees, for the seizure of each
animal seized and sold, to wit : one dollar for each horse, colt, ass, or mule ;
fifty cents for each bull, ox, cow, or calf ; and twenty-five cents for each
goat, sheep, or swine ; together with a reasonable compensation, fixed by
him, for the care and keeping of each animal, from the time of the seizure
to the time of the sale ; and, also, where any animal sold was seized, while
trespassing upon real property owned or occupied by the petitioner, the
damages sustained by the petitioner in consequence thereof, as ascertained
by the decision of the justice, or the verdict of the jury, upon which the final
order was made.
4. Out of the remainder of the proceeds, he must pay to the officer, to
whom a fine or penalty is to be paid for the benefit of the poor, as prescribed
in section 2875 of this act, the following penalties, to wit : five dollars for
each horse, colt, ass, mule, bull, ox, cow, calf, or swine, seized and sold ; and
one dollar for each sheep or goat, seized and sold ; which penalties must be
received by the officer, for the benefit of the poor of his town or district.
5. If any surplus remains, he must pay the same to the person or persons
entitled thereto, as prescribed in the following sections of this title.
§ 3093. Disposition of surplus. Any person may, within ten days after
the return of the wan-ant, file, with the justice, a written claim to the sur
plus of the proceeds of the sale, or to any part thereof. On the eleventh
day after the return, or, if it is a Sunday or a public holiday, on the first
day thereafter, which is neither Sunday nor a public holiday, the justice
must proceed to inquire into the claims so filed ; and, for the purpose of
determining them, he must hear the allegations and proofs of each claim
ant ; and he may issue subpoenas, as upon the trial of an action. He may
upon the application of any claimant, and for good cause shown, adjourn the
hearing, from time to time, but not more than thirty days in all. After
hearing the allegations and proofs of all the claimants, he must decide the
claims, and enter an order accordingly. If no claim is filed ; or if the right
to the surplus money, or any part thereof, is not established, to the satisfac
tion of the justice, as prescribed in this section ; any person, whose claim
was not determined upon the hearing, may file a claim thereto, at any time
before the expiration of a year from the return of the warrant ; and, there
upon, the justice must proceed, as prescribed in this section with respect to
a claim filed within the ten days.
§ 3094. Id. ; when no claim made within a year. If, at the expiration
of one year after the return of the warrant, any portion of the surplus re
mains, a claim to which has not been established to the satisfaction of the
justice, pursuant to the provisions of the last section, the justice must pay it,
for the benefit of the poor to the officer to whom a fine or penalty is to be
paid for the benefit of the poor, as prescribed in section 2875 of this act ;
and, thereupon, all persons are forever barred from any claim thereto. But
if a claim, filed as prescribed in the last section, remains undetermined at
the expiration of the year, the justice must determine it within ten days
thereafter ; and, for that purpose, he must retain the surplus in his hands
until the determination.
§ 3095. Order upon claim for surplus ; appeal therefrom. An appeal
from an order determining a claim, as prescribed in the last two sections,
may be taken to the county court, by a claimant, within ten days after the
making of the order, as from a judgment of a justice in an action to recover
a sum equal to the claim ; and the proceedings thereupon are the same,
except that an undertaking is not necessary for any purpose. Upon such
an appeal, each other claimant, whose interest is affected by the order ap
pealed from, must be made a respondent. If there is no such claimant, the
officer entitled to the surplus must be made respondent ; but costs cannot be
awarded against him, unless he appears upon the appeal ; in which case,
the costs are in the discretion of the appellate court. Where an appeal,
taken as prescribed in this section, is perfected, the county judge may, in
his discretion, make an order extending the time, within which payment of
the surplus must be made, as prescribed in the last section, and staying pay
ment accordingly. Unless such an order is made, and a copy thereof is
served upon the justice, payment must be made as prescribed in the last
section, notwithstanding the appeal ; and upon proof of the payment, the
appeal must be dismissed. Where an appeal is taken to the supreme court,
from the determination of the county court, the county judge, or a justice of
the supreme court may make a like order, and with like effect.
§ 3096. Proceedings upon decision in favor of person answering.
If the decision of the justice, or the verdict of the jury, where the issues
are tried by jury, is in favor of the person answering, it must fix the value
of each animal seized. If the justice or the jury find that the seizure was
malicious, and without probable cause, deicsion or the verdict must assess
the damages sustained by the person answering, by means of the seizure
and detention. The justice must thereupon make a final order, awarding
to the person so answering, the return of the animal or animals so seized, or
the value thereof if a return cannot be had ; together with his costs, at the
rates allowed by law in an action brought before him to recover a chattel ;
and, also, twice the sum assessed as his damages, if any. Thereupon a
warrant must be issued by the justice to a constable, to the same effect, as
an execution issued, in an action to recover a chattel, upon a judgment in
favor of the defendant, where the chattel has not been delivered to him ;
and each provision of this chapter, relating to a judgment and an execution
in such a case, applies to a final order made, and a warrant issued there
upon, as prescribed in this section.
§ 3097. Demand of possession before trial ; proceedings thereupon.
At any time after the precept is issued, and before the commencement of the
trial, the owner of any animal seized may file with the justice a written
demand of the possession thereof. Thereupon he is entitled to the posses
sion, upon complying with the following terms :
1. He must pay to the justice, for the use of the petitioner, the costs of
the proceedings, to the time of filing the demand, as prescribed in subdi
vision first of section 3092 of this act, and, also, the sums payable on account
of each animal, whereof possession is so demanded, as prescribed in subdi
vision third of the same section; which sums must be fixed by the justice,
after hearing the allegations and proofs of the parties.
2. He must also pay to the justice, a fee of one dollar for each animal,
whereof possession is so demanded.
3. If the petitioner is an officer, to whom a fine or penalty is to be paid
for the benefit of the poor, as prescribed in section 2875 of this act, the
claimant must also pay to the justice, for the petitioner's use, the sum speci
fied therein on account of each animal, whereof possession is so demanded.
4. The claimant must also prove, to the satisfaction of the" justice, by affi
davit or other competent evidence, that he is the owner of each animal
whereof possession is so demanded. Each person who has appeared must
have notice of, and may oppose, the claim.
§ 3098. Id ; when animal willfully set at large by third person But
where, in a case specified in the last section, the person filing a demand,
presents therewith to the justice sufficient proof, by affidavit or otherwise,
that the running at large, herding, pasturing, or trespassing, by reason
whereof the animal or arimals, of which he demands possession, were
seized, was caused by the willful act, intended to effect that object, of a per
son other than the owner 5 and also makes the proof specified in subdivision
fourth of that section ; he is entitled to possession, pursuant to his demand,
upon paying to the petitioner, or to the justice for his use, a reasonable sum,
to be fixed by the justice, after hearing the allegations and proofs of the
parties, as compensation for the care and keeping of the animal or animals,
whereof possession is so demanded, and without paying any other sum,
specified in the last section.
§ 3099. Action by owner in such a case. The owner of an animal,
seized in consequence of a willful act specified in the last section, may
recover, in an action against the person who committed it, all damages sus
tained by him, in consequence thereof, including the sum paid in order to
recover possession of the animal, as prescribed in the last section ; and, in
addition thereto, the sum of twenty dollars for each animal seized.
§ 3100. Action by petitioner and by officer. Where the possession of
an animal has been delivered, as prescribed in the last section but one, an
action may also be maintained, by the petitioner in the special proceeding
before the justice, against the person who committed the willful act, to
recover, in addition to all other dalnages sustained by the plaintifff in conse
quence of the willful act, all sums, to which the plaintifff would have been
entitled out of the proceeds of the sale, as prescribed in section 3();i2 of this
act, other than the compensation paid for the care and keeping of the ani
mal. In the like case, if the petitioner is a private person, the officer, to
whom a fine or penalty is to be paid for the benefit of the poor, as prescribed
in section 2875 of this act, may maintain an action against the person, who
committed the willful act, to recover the penalties to which the plaintifff
would have been entitled, out of the proceeds of the sale, as prescribed in
that subdivision. Neither of the actions specified in this or the last section
is affected by the pendency of, or the recover of judgment in, either of the
others.
§ 3101. Demand of possession after final order and before sale. A
person, entitled to demand the possession of an animal, as prescribed in
section 3097 of this act, who did not appear upon the return of the precept,
or upon the trial, may file, with the justice, a written demand of the pos
session, at any time after the final order, and not less than three days before
the time appointed for the sale ; and, thereupon, he is entitled to the pos
session, upon complying with the following terms :
1. He must furnish, by affidavit or other competent evidence, a sufficient
excuse, to the satisfaction of the justice, for his failure to appear.
2. He must, in all respects, comply with the provisions of section 3097 of
this act ; except that it is necessary for him to pay only one-half of the jus
tice's fee, as prescribed in subdivision second of that section ; and one-half
of the fees payable to the petitioner, for the seizure of each animal, as pre
scribed in subdivision third of section 3092 of this act.
3102. Order upon demand of possession; appeal therefrom
ere a demand for the return of the possession of an animal is filed, as
prescribed in either of the last five sections, the justice must, at the request
of either party thereto, make, and enter in his minutes, an order determin
ing the same. An appeal from such an order may be taken to the county
court, by the person making the demand, or by either party to the Bpecial
proceeding, at any time before the final order in the special proceeding is
made ; and each person or party so entitled to appeal, must be made a
respondent upon an appeal taken by one of the others. The appeal must
be taken in like manner, as an appeal from a judgment of the justice in an
action to recover a chattel ; and the proceedings thereupon are the same,
except as otherwise prescribed in the next section.
§ 3103. Id ; stay of proceedings. An appeal from an order, specified
in the last section, is not effectual for any purpose, unless the appellant pro
cures from the county judge an order, directing a stay of the proceedings
upon the petition, and a stay of the execution of the order appealed from,
and files it with the justice, within the time allowed for the appeal. The
order may be granted or refused, in the discretion of the county judge, or
granted upon such terms, as to security or otherwise, as he thinks proper ;
and it may be vacated or modified, either absolutely, or unless further
security is given, in his discretion.
§ 3104. Appeal from final order. "Within ten days after a final order
upon a petition is made, as prescribed in this title, an appeal therefrom may
be taken by the petitioner, or by the person answering, in like^nanner as an
appeal from a judgment of the justice in an action to recover a sum of
money, equal to the value of the animal or animals, and the proceedings
thereupon are the same, except as otherwise prescribed in the next section.
§ 3105. Id ; by claimant ; stay of proceedings and delivery of pos
session An appeal from a final order, taken, as prescribed in the last
section, by the person answering, is not effectual for any purpose, unless the
appellant files, with the notice of appeal, an order of the county judge, or,
if he is absent from the county, a justice of the supreme court, reciting
that the appeal has been perfected, and that security has been given there
upon, as prescribed in this section, and directing a stay* of proceedings
upon the final order appealed from, and that the possession of the animal
or animals seized be delivered to the appellant. The order can be made,
only where an undertaking is given by the appellant, as required for the
purpose of perfecting an appeal from a judgment, and staying the execution
thereof ; and also an undertaking, in the same or another instrument, to
the effect that, if the final order appealed from is affirmed, or if the appeal
is dismissed, the appellant will pay all sums which the justice awards against
him, upon the hearing, after the determination of the appeal, as prescribed
in the next section, not exceeding a sum specified therein ; which must be,
at least, twice the amount of all the sums, which might be deducted from
the proceeds of the sale, as prescribed in section 3092 of this act. The
sum must be fixed, and the undertaking must be approved, by the judge
who grants the order. Upon filing the order with the justice, the appellant
is forthwith entitled to the possession of the animal or animals seized.
§ 3106. Proceedings upon affirmance. If the final order appealed
from is affirmed, upon an appeal taken by the person answering, the county
court must appoint a time and place, at which the justice must fix the sums
payable by the appellant, pursuant to his undertaking. The justice may
adjourn the hearing to another place, and to another time, not exceeding
three days after the time so appointed. The justice must fix the sums so
payable, as if a warrant for the sale of the animals seized had been
returned, and the proceeds thereof paid to him by the constable, as pre
scribed in section 3092 of this act. The undertakin r upon the appeal enures
to the benefit of each officer, to whom any sum is payable, as prescribed in
that section ; and with respect to any of those sums, the respondent is a
trustee for the officer entitled thereto.
§ 3107. Limitation of action for seizing animals. Where an animal
is seized, upon the ground that it was running at large, or was being herded
or pastured, or was trespassing, contrary to the provisions of this title ; and
the officer or other person making the seizure, immediately files his petition,
and diligently prosecutes the same, as prescribed in this title ; an action to
recover the animal so seized, or to recover damages for the seizure, or for
any act subsequent thereto, must be commenced within one year after the
cause of action accrues.
§ 3108. Certain actions cannot be maintained. A person, to whom
the precept was directed by his name, and who was personally served there
with, or a person who has appeared and answered in the special proceeding,
or demanded the return of any animal seized, cannot maintain an action
against the officer or other person seizing an animal, or a person acting by
his command or in his aid, in a case specified in the last section. But,
except as specified in this section, the owner of an animal seized or detained,
under color of any provision of this title, may maintain an action to recover
the animal, or its value, or damages for the seizure or detention, or for any
unlawful act subsequent thereto, if, in fact, the animal was not, at the time
of the seizure, running at large, or being herded or pastured, or trespass
ing, as the case may be, as specified in the foregoing provisions of this
title.
§ 3109 Where several animals are trespassing damages are entire.
Proceedings in such cases. For the purpose of determining the damages
sustained by the petitioner, where two or more animals are found simultane
ously trespassing upon real property, owned or occupied by him, all the
damage done by all the animals seized, is to be regarded as done by them
jointly ; and the petitioner's remedy therefore is entire, and must be enforced
against all the animals, and the proceeeds of the sale thereof. Where differ
ent persons, who are known, own different animals seized, the precept must
be directed to all of them by their names. If one or more of the owners are
known, and the others are unknown, and cannot be ascertained with reason
able diligence, the precept must be directed to each known owner, by his
name, and, also generally, to all persons having an interest in those animals,
the owners of which are unknown. In a case specified in this section, a
demand of the possession of an animal seized cannot be made, as prescribed
in section 3097 or 3101 of this act, unless it is made with respect to all the
animals seized, and by persons entitled to the possession of all of them.
But a separate demand may be made, as prescribed in section 3098 of this
act, by each owner of one or more animals seized ; in which case, if posses
sion is delivered to him, as prescribed in that section, the petitioner's remedy
for his damages is the same, with respect to the animal or animals, of which
possession is not so delivered, aud against the proceeds of the sale thereof,
as if those, whereof possession is so delivered, had not been trespassing
upon the property.
§ 3110. Proceedings in other cases, where there are different owners.
"Where the petitioner does not allege, that the animals seized were trespass
ing upon real property owned or occupied by him. and different persons own
different animals seized, a separate special proceeding may be instituted,
as prescribed in this title, against each owner, or against any two or more
owners, with respect to the animals owned by him or them. Or the pro
ceedings may be taken against all the owners jointly ; in which case, each
person to whom the precept is directed by his name, and each person having
an interest in an animal seized, has the same right to demand the possession
of the animal owned by him, and the same right to answer separately, as if
the special proceeding was against him separately ; and the final order may
be in favor of one or more of the persons so answering, with respect to the
animal or animals owned by him or them, and for his or their costs ; and
against the remainder of the persons answering, or to whom the precept
was directed, or for the sale of the remainder of the animals, in like man
ner, as if the former persons had not answered, or had not been named in
the precept. But the person, first making a demand of the possession of
any animal seized, must pay all the costs to the time of the demand ; and a
person, subsequently making a demand, is excused from the payment of any
costs, except those which have accrued since the former demand.
§ 3111. Surplus where there are different owners. Where proceed
ings are taken jointly against different persons, who own different animals
seized, as prescribed in either of the last two sections, the surplus, remaining
in the justice's hands, must be distributed between them, in proportion to
the value of the animals owned by each, to be determined by the justice.
Any owner may claim separately his proportion of the surplus ; and sec
tions 3093 and 3094 of this act apply to a claim made, and to the disposition
of the surplus arising, as prescribed in this section.
§ 3112. When one action, etc., supersedes any other. Where two or
more persons, or an officer and a private person, are authorized by this title,
to bring an action, or to seize an animal, and to take the proceedings pre
scribed in this title for the disposition thereof, the commencement of an
action, or the seizure of the animal by either of them, supersedes the right
of any of the others to bring such an action, or to make such a seizure, with
respect to the animal seized, or in question in the action. But the justice may,
in las discretion, allow an officer or other person, who is interested in the
recovery, or in the application of the proceeds of the sale, to appear in the
action or special proceeding, for the purpose of protecting his interest, and
to take such part of the proceedings therein, as the justice thinks proper.
§ 3113. Rights of officer when private person fails to prosecute.
Where a seizure is made by a private person, as prescribed in this title, and
the possession of an animal seized is abandoned by him, without filing a
petition ; or where an action, brought by a private person, as prescribed in this
title, is settled or discontinued by the plaintifff; the officer, to whom a penalty
is payable, as prescribed in section 3083 of this act, or in subdivision fourth of
section 3092 of this act, may, unless he has assented to the abandonment,
settlement, or discontinuance, maintain an action against the owner of the
animal in question, to recover the penalty so payable to him ; and upon proof
of the facts, which would have entitled the plaintifff in the former action, or
the petitioner in the special proceeding, to recover, he is entitled to judgment
accordingly.
§ 3114. Person having a special property deemed owner. When a
person is, at the time of the seizure, entitled to the possession of an animal,
as against the general owner thereof, by virtue of a special property therein,
he is deemed, for all the purposes of this title, the owner thereof.
§ 3115. Agent may act for his principal. The duly authorized agent of
the owner or person entitled to the possession of an animal, as specified in the
last section, may, in his own name, answer, make any demand, or take any
other proceeding, which the owner or person so entitled may take, as prescribed
in this title.

§ 3116. Justice in sixth district must be an attorney. A person shall
not hold the office of justice of the peace for the sixth judicial district of the
city of Brooklyn, unless he has been regularly admitted to practice as an attor
ney and counsellor at law, in the courts of record of the State.
§ 3117. Justices' jurisdiction in Brooklyn extended In addition to the
jurisdiction conferred generally by law, upon justices of the peace, each justice
of the peace of the city of Brooklyn has civil jurisdiction, as prescribed in subdivisions first, second, third, fourth, and seventh of section 2862 of this
act, where the sum claimed, or the value of a chattel, or of all the chattels
claimed, together with the damages claimed, if any, does not exceed two
hundred and fifty dollars.
§ 3118. Justices to receive salaries in lieu of fees ; to account and
pay over fees monthly. In an action or a special proceeding before a justice
of the peace of the city of Brooklyn, costs must be awarded and collected,
as in a like action or special proceeding before another justice ; but the justice
shall not retain, to his own use, any costs, or any fee, or other reward for his
services, except in a special proceeding, instituted as prescribed in title second
of chapter seventeenth of this act. Each of those justices must, between the
first and tenth days of each month, render to the Comptroller of that city an
account, verified by his oath, of all costs,fees, fines, penalties, and other money,
collected or received by him, by virtue of his office, during the preceding
month ; except for damages awarded, or costs actually paid to a party to a civil
action, or special proceeding ; costs, actually paid to another officer, in such
an action or special proceeding ; and such fees as the justice is entitled to
retain to his own use, as prescribed in this section. The justice must pay
to the Comptroller, at the time of so rendering his account, the full amount
of the money so accounted for. Each of those justices is entitled, in lieu
of all fees and perquisites, other than the fees which he is so entitled
to retain, to an annual salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by
law.
§ 3119. Clerk ; how appointed ; salary ; bond Each justice of the
peace of the city of Brooklyn has a clerk, who is nominated by the justice,
and appointed by him, subject to confirmation by the common council of that
city ; and may be removed by the justice at his pleasure. Each clerk is
entitled, in lieu of all fees and perquisites, to an annual salary, fixed and to
be paid as prescribed by law. Each clerk, before entering upon the duties
of his office must execute to the city of Brooklyn, and file in the city clerk's
office, a bond, in the penalty of two thousand clollars, with at least two sure
ties, approved by a justice of the supreme court, residing in the second judicial
district ; conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as clerk, and
for the accounting for, and paying over, as directed by law, of all money
received by him as clerk. Any paper, which, elsewhere, must or may be filed
with a justice of the peace, must or may, in the city of Brooklyn, be filed with
the clerk of the proper justice.
§ 3120. Duties of clerk. Each clerk of a justice of the peace of the city
of Brooklyn must, under the direction of the justice, perform the following
duties :
1. He must keep the docket-book, required to be kept by a justice of the
peace, as prescribed in sections 3140, 3141, and 3142 of this act.
2. He must file, carefully preserve, and deliver to his successor in office,
every paper, delivered to him to be filed, as prescribed in the last section.
3. He must certify and furnish, upon request, and payment of the fees pre
scribed by law therefore, a transcript of any judgment rendered by the justice,
or a copy of any record or paper, in his possession as clerk. A transcript or
copy so certified, has the same effect, and must be received in evidence in like
manner, as if it was certified by the justice, by or before whom the judgment
was rendered, or the proceeding was taken.
4. Upon the request of a person entitled thereto, he must issue, in like
manner and with like effect as the justice might issue the same, a summons
in a civil action brought before the justice ; or a subpcBna in such an action,
or in a civil Bpecial proceeding brought before the justice ; or an execution
against property, upon a judgment rendered by the justice.
5. If the justice is absent, upon the return of a mandate in a civil action
or special proceeding, or at the time or place to which the trial or hearing
is adjourned, and the case is not one, where it is specially prescribed by law,
that, if the justice is absent, another justice of the same city must take cog
nizance thereof, the clerk may, and upon the application of either party, he
must adjourn the cause, from time to time, until the justice attends ; and
thereupon the action or special proceeding does not abate, in consequence of
the justice's absence. But the cause shall not to be so adjourned, for a longer
period than six days, at one time, except with the consent of both parties.
6. He must account for, under oath, and pay to the Comptroller of the city
of Brooklyn, between the first and tenth days of each month, all fees, fines,
penalties, and other money, collected or received by him as clerk, during
the preceding month ; except as specified in section 3118 of this act, with
respect to the account to be rendered by the justice.
7. He must perform such other duties, not inconsistent with this act, as
are required of him by the justice.
§ 3121. Interpreter for police court, and for first, second and third
districts. There is an interpreter for the police court of the city of Brook
lyn, and the justices' courts of the first, second, and third districts of that
city, who is appointed, and may be removed at pleasure, by the justices of
those courts, or a majority of them. He is entitled to an annual salary,
fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
§ 3122. Id, for fourth and fifth districts. There is an interpreter for the
justices' courts of the fourth and fifth districts of the city of Brooklyn, who
is appointed, and may be removed at pleasure, by the justices of the peace
of those districts. He is entitled to an annual salary, fixed and to be paid
as prescribed by law.
§ 3123. Id, for sixth district There is an interpreter for the justice's
court of the sixth district of the city of Brooklyn, who is appointed by the
justice of the peace of that district, subject to confirmation by the common
council, and may be removed by that justice at his pleasure. He is entitled
to an. annual salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
§ 3124. Common council may appoint additional interpreters. The
common council of the city of Brooklyn may, where it deems it necessary,
upon the request of a justice, appoint one or more interpreters for justices'
courts in that city, in addition to those provided for in the last three sec
tions ; fix their salaries ; and prescribe the court or courts which they must
attend. An officer, so appointed, may be removed by the common council,
for cause.
§ 3125. Common council to designate attendants, etc. The common
council of the city of Brooklyn may designate one or more policemen, or
constables, to attend each of the justices' courts in that city. The common
council may, by ordinance or otherwise, fix and define their duties in and
about those courts, and may allow them such compensation, in lieu of all
fees and perquisites, as it deems proper.
§ 3126. When plaintifff may serve complaint with summons ; pro
ceedings thereupon In an action brought in a justice's court of the city
of Brooklyn, to recover upon and for the breach of a contract express or
implied, the plaintifff may serve upon the defendant, with the summons, and
in like manner, a copy of a written complaint, verified in like manner as a
verified pleading in the supreme court. In that case, unless, the defendant,
upon the return of the summons ; or, if the cause has been adjourned by
the clerk, as prescribed in subdivision fifth of section 3120 of this act, at the
time to which it was adjourned ; files a written answer, verified in like
manner, denying one or more material allegations, or, generally, each allega
tion of the complaint, or setting forth new matter, constituting one or more
defenses, or counterclaims, the justice must render judgment in favor of
the plaintifff, for the sum claimed in the complaint, with costs, without put
ting the plaintifff to any proof. The provisions of this section apply, where the
action is against two or more defendants jointly indebted, and the summons
and a copy of the complaint are served upon one or more, but not upon all of
them ; in which case, judgment may be taken, as prescribed in this section,
against all the defendants, in like manner and with like effect, as a judg
ment taken as prescribed in section 3020 of this act.
§ 3127. Jury trial ; when and how demanded. In an action in a
justice's court of the city of Brooklyn, a trial by jury is waived, unless a
party demands it, at a time when an issue of fact is joined, and at the
same time deposits, with the clerk, one dollar and fifty cents, for the jurors'
fees, and also one dollar and twenty-five cents, for the officer's fees for notify
ing the jurors, and taking charge of the jury. Where a jury trial is so
demanded, the trial may be adjourned until a time fixed for the return of
the venire.
§ 3128. Setting aside default, etc. A justice of the peace of the city
of Brooklyn may, in his discretion, at any time within twenty days after a
judgment has been rendered by him, upon the defendant's default in appear
ing upon the return of the summons, or at the trial ; and upon such reason
able notice to the plaintifff, or his attorney, as the justice thinks proper, make
an order, opening the default ; allowing the defendant to appear and defend
the action ; and setting aoide the judgment, or staying proceedings thereon.
The justice may, in his discretion, impose, as a condition of making such
an order, the payment by the defendant to the plaintifff of a fixed sum, not
exceeding ten dollars, as costs. He may also require the defendant to give
an undertaking to the plaintifff, in a sum fixed by the justice, with one or
more sureties, to the effect that the defendant will pay the amount of any
judgment, that may be rendered against him in the action. The justice
may also direct that the judgment, and a levy, if any, made by virtue of
an execution issued thereupon, stand as security for any judgment, which
the plaintifff may ultimately recover before him.
§ 3129. Additional costs upon recovery of $100. In an action brought
in a justice's court of the city of Brooklyn, where the plaintifff, or a defend
ant interposing a counterclaim, recovers a judgment for one hundred dol
lars or more, the prevailing party, if he is entitled to costs in the action,
recovers the following sums as costs, in addition to the costs allowed by title
ninth of this chapter :
1. Where the adverse party fail to appear upon the return of the summons,
or at the trial, seven dollars.
2. Where a trial is had, twelve dollars.
§ 3130. Id. ; when defendant recovers judgment. A defendant, who
recovers judgment in an actiou in a justice's court of the city of Brooklyn,
wherein the complaint demands judgment for one hundred dollars or more,
or the recovery of one or more chattels, the value of which, as stated in the
complaint, together with the damages claimed, if any, is one hundred dol
lars or more, recovers the following sums as costs, in addition to the cost*
allowed by title ninth of this chapter :
1. If the judgment was rendered without a trial, seven dollars.
2. If the judgment was rendered after a trial, ten dollars.
But this section does not apply to a case, where the defendant is entitled
to the costs specified in the last bection.
§ 3131. Costs in action by working woman. In an action brought in
a justice's court of the city of Brooklyn, to recover a sum of money, for
wages earned by a female employee, other than a domestic servant ; or for
material furnished by such an employee, in the course of her employment,
or in or about the subject-matter thereof; or for both ; the plaintifff, if enti
tled to costs, recovers the sum of ten dollars as costs, in addition to the costs
allowed by title ninth of this chapter, unless the amount of damages recov
ered is less than ten dollars ; in which case, the plaintifff recovers the sum of
five dollars as such additional costs. Where the employee is the plaintifff in
such an action, she is entitled, upon a settlement thereof, to the full amount
of costs, which she would have recovered, if judgment had been rendered in
her favor, for the sum received by her upon the settlement.
§ 3132. Costs upon' adjournment Where an application is made for a
second or subsequent adjournment of the trial of an actiou, brought in a jus
tice's court of the city of Brooklyn, after it has been once adjourned, the jus
tice may, in his discretion, require payment to the adverse party of a sum
not exceeding five dollars, besides disbursements, as a condition of granting
the application.
§ 3133. Application of other provisions. Holding court open Each
justice of the peace of the city of Brooklyn is a justice of the peace of Kings
county ; and each provision of this act, relating to the proceedings before a
justice of the peace of a town, applies to the proceedings before a justice
of the peace of that city, except as otherwise specially prescribed in this
title. Each of those justices must hold his court open, from nine o'clock in
the morning, until three o'clock in the afternoon.
§ 3134. Mode of application of certain provisions of this act. Where
a provision of this act, not contained in this chapter, is made applicable to
proceedings before a just-ice of the peace, the application is subject to the
qualification, that it c\oes not include anything, which is repugnant to any
special provision of law, regulating the jurisdiction or powers of a justice of
the peace, or the proceedings before him. Where a provision, thus made
applicable, relates to the filing of a paper in a court, or with a clerk, the
paper must, in an action or special proceeding before a justice of the peace,
be filed with the justice, unless he has a clerk appointed pursuant to law;
and where it confers a power upon a court or a judge, the provision, making
' it applicable to proceedings taken under this chapter, is to be construed, as
conferring a like power upon the justice, before whom the action or special
proceeding is brought.
§ 3135. General requisites of mandates. A mandate, issued by a
justice of the peace, must be signed by him, and may be without seal. It
must be entirely filled up, at the time when it is delivered to an officer to be
executed, so as to have no blank, either in the date thereof or otherwise ;
except that there may be a blank in a subpoena for the name of any or all
of the witnesses. A mandate, issued and delivered to an officer to be exe
cuted coutrary to this section, is void.
§ 3136. Reward to constable forbidden. A constable shall not ask or
receive any money or other valuable thing from any person, as a considera
tion, reward, or inducement for omitting or delaying to arrest a person, or to
take him to jail, or to sell property, by virtue of an execution, or to execute
any other duty, pertaining to his office ; or any money or valuable thing,
other than the fees expressly allowed to him by law, for executing any duty
pertaining to his office.
§ 3137. Justice or constable not to buy claim, etc. A justice of the
peace or constable shall not, directly or indirectly, buy, or be interested in
buying, a bond, note, or other demand or cause of action, for the purpose of
bringing an action, or instituting a special proceeding before a justice, founded
thereupon ; nor shall a justice or a constable, either before or after an action
or a special proceeding is commenced, lend or advance, or agree to lend or
advance, or procure to be lent or advanced, any money or other valuable
thing to any person, in consideration of, or as a reward for, or an induce
ment to, the placing, or having placed in his hands, a debt, or other demand
or cause of action, for prosecution or collection.
§ 3138. Penalty. A justice of the peace or constable, who violates a pro
vision of the last three sections, is 'guilty of a misdemeanor; and shall be
punished accordingly. A conviction also operates as a forfeiture of his office.
§ 3139. Violation of preceding sections a defense to action. It is a
defense to an action, brought before a justice of the peace, that the demand,
upon which it is founded, was bought and sold, or received for prosecution,
contrary to the foregoing provisions of this title. In an action wherein such
a defense is interposed, if the plaintifff, after being duly subpoenaed as a
witness, fails to attend, pursuant to the subpoena; or, if, upon the trial, or
upon his examination as a witness by virtue of a commission, he refuses to
answer any question pertinent to show a violation of either of those provisions;
the justice, besides punishing him, in a proper case, for his failure or refusal,
must dismiss his complaint. The testimony, in such an action, of the plain
tiff, or any other witness, is not evidence, in a criminal prosecution against
him, for violating either of those provisions.
§ 3140. Docket-book to be kept by justice ; entries therein. A jus
tice of the peace must keep a docket-book, in which he must enter :
1. The title- of every action or special proceeding commenced before him.
2. The time when the summons, or the mandate for the commencement of
the special proceeding, was issued ; with a statement of the nature of the
mandate, and a memorandum of each order of arrest, warrant of attachment,
or requisition to replevy, granted by him.
3. The time when the parties appeared before him, either without process,
or upon the return of the summons, or of the mandate for the commence
ment of the special proceeding.
4. A concise statement of the substance of each oral pleading, or a memo
randum of the filing of each written pleading.
5. Each adjournment ; stating upon whose application, and to what time
and place, it was made.
6. The issuing of a venire ; stating upon whose application it was issued,
and the time and place of the return thereof.
7. The time when a trial was had ; and, if it was by a jury, the names of
all the persons returned as having been notified to attend as jurors; stating
who did not attend ; who attended ; and who were sworn.
8. The name of each witness sworn upon the trial ; stating at whose request
he was sworn ; each objection made to the competency of a witness ; and the
decision thereupon.
9. The verdict of the jury, and the time of receiving it ; or, if the jury
disagreed and were discharged, a statement of that fact.
10. A concise statement of the substance of each order, made by him in
the course of the action or special proceeding.
11. The judgment or final order ; and the time of entering it.
12. The execution ; the time of issuing it ; the kind of execution ; the
name of the officer to whom it was delivered ; and each renewal with the
date thereof.
13. The return of each execution ; the time of the return ; and a statement
of any money paid to the justice thereupon, and when and by whom it was
paid.
14. Each transcript of the judgment, given by him to be filed in the county
clerk's office, and the time when it was given.
15. The appeal, if any ; and the time of service of the notice of appeal.
§ 3141. The same. Each of the entries, specified in the last section,
must be made under the title of the action or special proceeding to which it
relates; and, in addition thereto, the justice may enter in like manner any
other proceeding, had before him in the action or special proceeding, which
he thinks proper to enter. A docket-book, kept by a justice, must be kept
open, during the hours, when a sheriff's office is required by law to be kept
open, for search and examination by any person, upon his reasonable request
and to a reasonable extent.
§ 3142. Index to docket-book A justice of the peace must keep an
alphabetical index to all the judgments, entered by him in his docket-book ;
and he must insert therein the names of all the parties to each judgment,
and the page of the book, where the judgment is entered.
t3143. Papers to be filed. A justice of the peace must carefully file
preserve each affidavit or other paper, delivered to him to be filed in an
action or special proceeding.
§ 3144. Deposit of books and papers with town or city clerk. If a
justice of the peace, either before or after the expiration of his term of
office, removes from the town or city wherein he was elected, he must forth
with deposit, with the clerk of that town or city, his docket-book, and all
other papers, in his custody, relating to an action or a special proceeding,
which has been heard by him, or commenced before him. A justice, who is
removed from office, must make a like deposit, within ten days after receiv
ing notice of his removal, or afterwards, upon the demand of the clerk of
the town or city. But the omission of the justice to make the deposit, does
not affect the validity of any book or paper, so required to be deposited, or
of any proceeding to which it relates.
§ 3145. Certificate in docket-book deposited. A justice of the peace
must make, in each docket-book deposited by him, as prescribed in the last
section, a certificate under his hand, to the effect that each judgment or
order, entered therein, was duly rendered or made as therein stated ; and
that the sum, appearing by the book to be due thereupon, has not been paid,
to his knowledge.
§ 3146. Town or city clerk to demand books, etc., upon death, etc.,
of justice. If a justice of the peace dies, or his office becomes otherwise
vacant, the town or city clerk must demand and receive all books and papers,
which belonged to the justice in his official capacity, from any person having
them in his possession.
§ 3147. Delivery ; how compelled. If any book or paper, required to
be deposited with the town or city clerk, as prescribed in this title, is with
held, the like proceedings may be had, at the instance of the town or city
clerk, to compel the deposit thereof, as are prescribed by law, where an
officer refuses or neglects to deliver a book or paper in his custody as such
officer, to his successor in office.
§ 3148. Entries to be evidence. An entry made, as prescribed by law,
in the docket-book kept by a justice of the peace, and deposited with the
town or city clerk, as prescribed in this title, is presumptive evidence of the
matters of fact stated therein; but the presumption may be repelled by
proof.
§ 3149. Justice to furnish copies of papers. A justice of the peace
must furnish, upon request, and payment of his fees, to any person inter
ested in a judgment or order entered by him, a transcript of the judgment
or order, together with a copy of all the entries in his docket-book, relating
to the cause ; a copy of his minutes of the evidence in the cause, or the sub
stance of the testimony, if he has not taken minutes ; and a copy of any
paper on file in the cause ; or such portions thereof as are required.
§ 3150. Transfer of action when justice's term expires, etc. If the
term of office of a justice of the peace is about to expire, or he is about to
remove from the town or city, before judgment is rendered in an action, or
a final order is made in a special proceeding, pending before him, he must
previously make a written order, reciting, the fact, and directing the action
or special proceeding to be continued before another justice of the same
town or city, named in the order.
§ 3151. Id. ; when justice is a witness. If, before an issue of fact is
joined in an action or special proceeding, the defendant, or, where he has
not been arrested, his attorney, presents to the justice satisfactory proof, by
affidavit, that the justice, before whom the action or special proceeding is
pending, is a material witness for the defendant, without whose testimony
he cannot safely proceed to trial, setting forth therein the particular facts
and circumstances, which he expects to prove by him, the justice must forth
with make a written order, directing the witness or special proceeding to be
continued before another justice of the same town or city, named in the
order.
§ 3152. Proceedings upon transfer. Where an order is made, as pre
scribed in either of the last two sections, the constable must forthwith take
it, and all other papers in the action, with the body of the defendant, if he
is under arrest, before the justice named in the order. The plaintifff or
petitioner must forthwith appear before that justice, who must take cogni
zance of the action or special proceeding, and must proceed therein as if it
had been commenced before him. Costs, recovered in the action or special
proceeding, include the fees allowed by law, for services performed by the
constable and the justice, before the transfer, together with the fees allowed
by law, for the proceedings before the justice to whom the cause is trans
ferred.
§ 3153. Penally for not paying over money. A justice of the peace,
who neglects or refuses, within a reasonable time after demand, to pay any
money, collected by him in his official capacity, to the person entitled
thereto, is gitilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished accordingly.
A conviction also operates as a forfeiture of his office.
§ 3154. Action on judgment of justice. In an action upon a judgment
of a justice of the peace, brought in the county wherein it was rendered,
within five years after the rendition thereof, against a defendant upon
whom the summons was personally served, no costs can be recovered, except
where the justice, who rendered the judgment, is dead, or out of office, or
otherwise incapable of acting ; or has removed from the county ; or where
one of the parties has died ; or where the docket of the judgment has been
lost or destroyed.
§ 3155. Id. ; proof of judgment, etc. In an action brought upon a
judgment of a justice of the peace, who is dead, or out of office, or otherwise
incapable of acting ; or has removed from the county ; or cannot be found therein ; the original docket-book of the justice is presumptive evidence of
any matter entered therein, as prescribed by law ; but the presumption may
be repelled by proof. If the docket-book is lost or destroyed, or if it cannot
be produced, after reasonable effort to obtain it, the like proof may be
given, respecting the recovery of the judgment, as upon any other question
of fact.
§ 3156. Execution of mandate by private person. A justice of the
peace, who issues any mandate, authorized by this chapter, except a venire,
may, at the request of the party, whenever he deems it expedient so to do,
empower, by a written authority indorsed upon the mandate, any proper
person of full age, not a party to the action, to serve, or otherwise execute
it. For that purpose, the person so empowered has all the power and
authority, and is subject to all the obligations and liabilities, of a constable ;
and his return is evidence in like manner as a constable's But a person so
empowered is not entitled to any fee or reward for his services.
§ 3157 Constable to execute mandates in person. A constable, to
whom a mandate is directed and delivered as prescribed in this chapter,
must execute it in person, pursuant to the tenor thereof. He cannot act by
deputy in such a case.
§ 3158. Sheriff to act where execution of mandate is resisted. If a
constable, to whom a mandate, issued by a justice of the peace, is directed
and delivered, finds, or has reason to apprehend, that resistance will be
made to the execution thereof, he may deliver it to the sheriff of the county,
with a written certificate stating the facts, and requiring the sheriff to exe
cute it. Thereupon the sheriff must execute the mandate ; and he is sub
ject to all the liabilities attaching to a constable in executing it. Sections
104, 105, and 106 of this act apply to a mandate delivered to a sheriff, as
prescribed in this section.
§ 3159. Provisions, applying generally to courts of record, subject
to certain qualifications. Each of the foregoing provisions of this act,
which is made, by chapter twenty-second of this act, applicable to the marine
court of the city of New York, or generally to courts of record, is subject to
the qualifications and exceptions expressed or plainly implied in this title.
§ 3160. Certain sections inapplicable to the court Sections 438 and
603, section 611 to 619, both inclusive, and sections 636, 827, 1013, and 1015
of this act do not apply to an action or a special proceeding brought in the
marine court of the city of New York, or before a justice thereof, or to any
proceeding therein. Section 3268 and 3269 of this act do not apply to an
action in the court, prosecuted as prescribed in article third of this title ; or
where an undertaking has been given as prescribed in section 3165 of this
act. A plaintifff, in an action brought in the court, who has an office for the
regular transaction of business in person, within the city of New York, is
deemed a resident of that city, within the meaning of sections 3268 and
3269 of this act.
§ 3161. Time for service of notices. The time for personal service of
certain notices, in an action brought in the court, is as follows :
1. Notice of justification of the sureties, in an undertaking given by the
plaintifff, as security for the defendant's costs, not more than two days.
2. Notice of an application for judgment in a case specified in section 537
of this act ; notice of a motion to strike out a pleading, in a case specified
in section 538 of this act ; notice of an application for judgment upon the
defendant's default, or of the execution of a reference, or writ of inquiry, or
of an assessment thereupon, as prescribed in section 1219 of this act ; not
less than two days.
3. Notice of the justification of bail, not less than two, nor more than ten
days.
4. Notice of a motion, other than a motion specified in subdivision second
of this section, not less than four days; but the court or a justice thereof
may, upon an affidavit showing grounds therefore, prescribe a shorter time,
by an order to show cause.
5. Notice of trial of an issue of fact, or of an issue of law ; notice of the
hearing of an appeal, or of any other hearing, the time for serving which
is not expressly prescribed in either of the foregoing subdivisions of this
section, or elsewhere in this title ; not less than five days.
6. Notice of taxation of costs, not less than two days ; except where all
the attorneys, serving and served with the notice, reside or have their offices
in the city of New York, in which case, one day's notice is sufficient.
§ 3162. Service of notice of trial ; filing of note of issue. Notice of
trial of an issue triable at a term of the court, or of the hearing of an appeal
to the general term of the court, may be given for any day of the term. A
note of issue must be filed at least two days before the day, or the com
mencement of the term, for which the notice of trial or hearing is given ;
and, if it relates to the trial of an issue of fact, or of law, it must, in addi
tion to the matters specified in section 977 of this act, state the day or the
term, for which the notice has been given. But this and the last section do
not apply to a case where special provision is otherwise made in article third
of this title.
§ 3163. When court may relieve from imprisonment Where it sat
isfactorily appears that a party, who is actually confined in jail, by virtue of
an order of arrest, or an execution against the person, issued in an action
brought in the court, is physically unable to endure the confinement, and
that he cannot procure bail, or the necessary sureties in a bond for the jail
liberties, as the case requires, the court or a justice thereof, may, in its or
his discretion, by order, direct the sheriff to release him from custody. The
sheriff must obey such an order. After such a release from an execution
against the person, another execution, against the person of the judgment
debtor, cannot be issued upon the judgment; but the judgment creditor
may enforce the judgment against property, as if the execution, from which
the judgment debtor was released, had been returned without his being
taken.
§ 3164. Money ; how paid into the court. Money paid into the court,
pursuant to any provision of this act, must, unless the court otherwise directs,
be paid directly to the chamberlain of the city of New York, to the credit
of the cause in which it is paid.
Summons.
Time for service of pleadings, etc.
Enforcement of certain judgments in favor of working women.
Time for non-acceptance and justification of bail, etc.
Proof necessary to obtain warrant of attachment.
Service of summons without the city, or by publication.
Commission to take testimony.
Court may refer question arising upon a motion.
Time for filing decision upon a trial by the court. Id. ; when sufficient.
Counter-claims.
Perishable property may be sold.
Portion of verdict, etc., may be remitted.

§ 3165. Summons. The summons, in an action brought in the court,
must state that the time, within which the defendant must serve a copy of
his answer, is six days after the service thereof, exclusive of the day of ser
vice ; except in one of the following cases :
1. A justice of the court may, upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit, that
either the plaintifff or the defendant resides without the city of New York ;
or, where there are two or more plaintifffs, or two or more defendants, that
all the plaintifffs or all the defendants reside without that city, direct, by an
order, that the defendant be summoned to answer within a shorter time,
specified therein, not less than two days after the service of the summons,
exclusive of the day of service ; whereupon the summons must correspond
to the order. The order must be indorsed upon or annexed to the summons ;
and a copy thereof must be delivered with a copy of the summons. The
justice may, in his discretion, as a condition of granting the order, require
the plaintifff to give an undertaking, with one or more sureties, to the effect
that the plaintifff will pay any judgment which may be rendered against
him in the action, not exceeding a sum specified in the undertaking, which
must be at least two hundred dollars.
2. Where an order, directing service of the summons without the city of
New York, or by publication, is granted, the summons must state that the
time, within which the defendant must serve a copy of his answer, is ten
days after service thereof, exclusive of the day of service. If a summons,
requiring the defendant to answer within a shorter time, has been issued, as
prescribed in this section, before an order specified in this subdivision is
granted, the justice granting such an order may direct that the summons be
amended accordingly ; and thereupon the summons published, or served
without that city, pursuant to the order, must correctly state the time.
8 3166. Time for service of pleadings, etc. The time within which a
defendant in a case specified in section 479 of this act must demand a copy
of the complaint, and the time within which the plaintifff must serve the
same, after a demand thereof, as prescribed in that section, and the time,
within which a copy of a pleading, subsequent to the complaint, must be
served, after the service of a copy of the preceding pleading, is the same
number of days, as stated in the summons, within which the defendant is
required to serve a copy of his answer, after service of the summons. But,
except as otherwise prescribed in section 3185 of this act, a defendant,
arrested before answer, has ten days after the arrest, within which to demand
a copy of the complaint or to serve a copy of his answer, as the case requires ;
and judgment must be stayed accordingly.
§ 3167. Enforcement of certain judgments in favor of working
women. Section 3221 of this act applies to an action brought in the court
and to the judgment and execution against the person and property of the
judgment debtor.
§ 3168. Time for non-acceptance and justification of bail, etc. The
time for taking certain proceedings, in an action brought in the court, is as
follows :
1. Service of notice of non-acceptance of bail, within five days after the
delivery, to the plaintifff's attorney, of certified copies of the order of arrest,
return, and undertaking, as prescribed in section 577 of this act.
2. Service of notice of justification of the bail, within five days after ser
vice of the notice specified in subdivision first of this section.
3. Service of notice of exception to the sureties, in an undertaking, given
by the plaintifff, as security for the defendant's costs, within two days after
service, upon the defendant's attorney, of a written notice of the filing
thereof; and service of notice of the justification of the same, or new sure
ties, within two days after service of the notice of exception.
§ 3169. Proof necessary to obtain warrant of attachment In order
to entitle the plaintifff to a warrant of attachment against property, he must
show by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the justice granting it, that a suf
ficient cause of action exists against the defendant, to recover damages for
one or more causes specified in section 635 of this act; to an amount stated
in the affidavit ; which, if the action is to recover damages for breach of a
contract, must be stated over and above all counterclaims known to the
plaintifff; and also that the case is within one of the following subdivi
sions :
1. That the defendant is a foreign corporation ; or a domestic corporation
whose principal place of business is not within the city of New York.
2. That the defendant is not a resident of the State.
3. That the defendant being a resident of the State, is not a resident of
the city of New York ; and has not an office within that city, where he
regularly transacts business in person.
4. That the defendant being an adult and a resident of that city, has
departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid service
of the summons ; or keeps himself concealed therein, with the like intent ;
or that, after proper and diligent effort to ascertain the place of the sojourn
of such a resident adult defendant, the same cannot be ascertained.
5. That the defendant being an adult has removed, or is about to remove,
property from that city, with intent to defraud his creditors, or that he has
assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete
property, with the like intent.
6. That the defendant, being an adult and a resident of that city, has
been continuously without the United States more than six mouths next
before the granting of the warrant, and has not made a designation of a
person upon whom to serve a summons in his behalf, as prescribed in section
430 of this act ; or a designation so made no longer remains in force.
§ 3170. Service of summons without the city or by publication.
An order, directing the service of a summons, either without the city of
New York, or by publication, may be granted by the court, or by a justice

thereof ; but only in a case, where a warrant of attachment has been issued,
as prescribed in the last section, and personal service of the summons can
not be made, with due diligence, within that city. The plaintifff, when he
applies for such an order, must show by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the
court or justice, that the case is within this section. Where an order is
granted, as prescribed in this section, service of the summons without that
city, may be made, as directed in the order, either within or without the
State. Sections 440 to 445, both inclusive, and sections 638, 707, and 708
of this act apply to the service or publication, pursuant to such an order,
and to the proceedings relating to the same, and subsequent thereto ; sub
stituting the words, " the city of New York," in place of the words, " the
State," wherever the latter words occur. If the defendant is a resident of
the city of New York, the order must also direct that a copy of the sum
mons, complaint, and order be left at his residence, specifying it, with a
person of suitable age and discretion, if, upon reasonable application, admit
tance can be obtained, and such a person found who will receive it ; or, if
admittance cannot be so obtained, nor such a person found, by affixing the
same to the outer door of the residence so specified.
§ 3171. Commission to take testimony. The application, to the court,
of article second of title third of chapter ninth of this act, is subject to the
following qualifications :
1. The words, 'the city and county of New York, or either of the coun
ties of Richmond, Kings, Queens, or Westchester," must be regarded, as
substituted, in place of the words, " the State," wherever those words are
used in that article with respect to the locality of a witness.
2. Interrogatories, framed pursuant to that article, can be settled only by
a justice of the court.
3. A commission, or order to take depositions, issued or granted, pursuant
to that article, may be executed either within or without the State.
§ 3172. Court may refer question arising upon a motion. The court
may, of its own motion, or upon the application of either party, without the
consent of the other, by order, direct a reference, to determine and report
upon a question of fact, arising upon a motion, in any stage of an action.
8 3173. Time for filing decision upon a trial by the court ; Id. ; when
sufficient. The time within which the decision of the court must be filed, in
a case specified in section 1010 of this act, is ten days after the cause is
finally submitted. The decision of the court, in a case specified in section
1022 of this act, is sufficient if it directs the judgment to be entered there
upon; but if so required by a party appealing, the justice by whom the
decision was made, must, within ten days after the appeal is perfected, and
notice thereof and of the requirement is given to him, make, and file with
the clerk, a special decision, stating separately the facts found, and the
conclusions of law.
§ 3174. Counter-claims.
A counterclaim, specified in subdivision
second of section 501 of this act, cannot be interposed, in an action brought
in the court, unless it is of such a nature that the court has jurisdiction of an
action founded thereupon ; except that, in an action brought by an executor
or administrator, any counterclaim may be interposed which could be inter
posed in a like action brought in the supreme court. A counterclaim may
be interposed, in an action brought in the court, without respect to the
amount thereof; and judgment thereupon, in favor of the defendant, may
be rendered for any sum.
§ 3175. Perishable property may be sold. Where perishable property
has been levied upon, by virtue of an execution or a warrant of attachment,
the court may, upon the application of the officer making the levy, by order,
direct the sale thereof, at such a time, and upon such a notice, as it deems
proper; and thereupon the property must be sold accordingly.
§ 3176. Portion of verdict, etc., may be remitted. A party to whom
a sum is awarded, upon a trial, an assessment of damages, or the execution
of a reference or writ of inquiry, may remit any portion thereof, and take
judgment for the residue.
§ 3177. Arrest in certain marine causes. Court may regulate by
general rules. In an action specified in subdivision second of section 317
of this act, the plaintifff may apply for an order of arrest, to accompany the
summons, in form and to the effect specified in the next section. If such
an order is granted, the proceedings in the action must be conducted as pre
scribed in this article. The justices of the court, or a majority of them,
may, from time to time, by one or more general rules, attested by the hands
of the justices making the same, and filed with the clerk, regulate the man
ner in which an application for such an order may be made, and the cases
in which an undertaking may be dispensed with. Until regulations are so
established, the justice to whom the application is made, may, in his dis
cretion, require or dispense with an undertaking thereupon.
§ 3178. Id. ; contents of order of arrest The order of arrest, granted
as prescribed in the last section, must require the sheriff to arrest tho defend
ant, and to bring him forthwith before the court, at the chambers thereof;
or if, when he is arrested, the court is not in session at chambers, to hold
him to bail, in a sum specified in the order, for his personal attendance at
the opening of the court, on the next day thereafter, when it is in session at
the chambers thereof. The order must also direct that the defendant be
summoned to answer the complaint in the action forthwith. Thereupon the
summons must conform to the order.
8 3179. Id. ; proceedings on arrest. The sheriff, upon arresting the
defendant, by virtue of such an order, must, at the same time, serve upon
him the summons, and also a copy of the order of arrest, and of the papers
upon which it was granted. He must forthwith bring the defendant before
the court, at the chambers thereof, if the court is then in session at chambers ;
otherwise, unless bail is given, as prescribed in the next section, he must
take the defendant to the jail of the city and county of New York, for the
confinement of prisoners in civil causes. The keeper thereof must confine
the defendant therein. On the next day thereafter, when the court is in
session at chambers, the sheriff must take the defendant from the jail, and
bring him before the court.
The defendant may give
bail, by delivering to the sheriff a written undertaking to the plaintifff, in
the sum specified in the order of arrest, executed in one or more sureties, to
the effect that the defendant will attend in person at the opening of the court,
at the chambers thereof, on the next day thereafter when it is there in ses
sion ; or he may deposit with the sheriff the sum specified in the order of
arrest. In either case, the sheriff must forthwith release him from custody.
§ 3181. The same. Where bail is given, as prescribed in the last section,
the officer taking the acknowledgment of the undertaking, must, if the sheriff
eo requires, examine under oath, to a reasonable extent, the persons offering
to become bail, concerning their property and their circumstances. The
defendant may give bail, or make the deposit, immediately upon the arrest,
at any hour of the day or night ; and he must have reasonable opportunity
to seek for and to procure bail, before being committed to jail. Where a
deposit is made, the money deposited must, before the expiration of the next
day thereafter, not being Sunday or a public holiday, be paid, by the sheriff,
into court, to the credit of the action, as prescribed in section 3164 of this act.
§ 3182. Id. ; bail or deposit after return. At any time after the return
of the sheriff, and before final judgment, a justice of the court may admit a
defendant in custody to bail, or allow him to make a deposit ; and may
direct his release, upon his giving bail or making the deposit accordingly.
The sum to be deposited or the sum specified in the undertaking of the bail,
must be fixed, and the sureties in the undertaking must be approved, by the
justice ; who must be satisfied, by their examination, or by other proof,
respecting their sufficiency. The undertaking must be to the effect that the
defendant will, at all times, render himself amenable to any mandate which
may be issued, to enforce a final judgment against him in the action.
Article fourth of title first of chapter seventh of this act, applies, where bail
is given as prescribed in this or the last section.
§ 3183. Id. ; when and how defendant to remain in custody. Unless
bail is given, or a deposit is made, as prescribed in the last three sections,
the defendant must remain in the jail by virtue of the order of arrest, until
final judgment in the action ; and, if the judgment is against the defendant,
until the return of an execution against property issued thereupon. But
the court must direct him to be brought into court, at the time of the trial ;
and it may, in its discretion, direct him to be brought into court at any other
time. In either case, he must be taken from the jail, and brought into court
accordingly.
§ 3184. Id ; return of summons, etc. The sheriff, after serving the
summons and executing the order of arrest, must make a full return of his
proceedings thereupon, to the court at chambers. The return must be made
chambers; in which
case, it must be made immediately after the opening of the court, on the
first day thereafter, when it is there in session. If the defendant has given
bail, the undertaking of the bail must be returned, to be delivered to the
plaintifff when the court so directs.
§ 3185. Id. ; proceedings after return. Unless both parties sooner ap
pear, the court must wait an hour after the return ; or, if the defendant has
given bail, one hour after the opening of the court. As soon after the par655
ties appear, or after the expiration of the hour, as the business upon which
the court is then engaged will permit, the court must take up the cause. If
the plaintifff does not then appear, a judgment dismissing the complaint,
with costs, must be rendered. If the defendant does not then attend in
Serson, the plaintifff must then make his complaint, and the defendant's
efault must be entered. If the plaintifff appears and the defendant attends
in person, the pleadings must then be made, and issue must be joined. The
pleadings may be oral or written ; if they are oral, the clerk mu6t enter the
substance thereof in the minutes. If either party desires a trial by a jury,
he must demand the same, at the time of the joinder of issue ; otherwise the
issue must be tried by the court, without a jury.
§ 3186. Id.; trial "Where a trial by jury is duly demanded, the court at
chambers must direct the issue to be tried, at a trial term, upon such notice
as it deems proper, or without notice ; it may also direct that the action
have a preference upon the day calendar, either generally or for a partic
ular day ; and it may give such direction as it deems proper, with respect
to filing a note of issue. Where a trial by jury is not duly demanded, or
where the defendant is in default, the evidence must then, or at such subse
quent time, either at chambers or at a trial term or special term, as the
court at chambers appoints, be given ; and thereupon final judgment must
be rendered. But the issue must be appointed to be tried, within six days
after the joinder thereof, unless both parties assent to a longer time ; or a
trial by jury is demanded, and there is no term of the court, at which it can
be had, within that time. The trial cannot be adjourned, without the con
sent of both parties, beyond three calendar months from the joinder of issue.
§ 3187. Ordinary action may be brought for like cause. This article
does not prevent the plaintifff from commencing, and conducting in the ordi
nary manner, a., action, for a cause specified in subdivision second of sec
tion 317 of this act.
Appeal to general term, from a judgment.
Id. ; fi-om an order.
Time to appeal from order ; proceedings thereupon.
Appeal from general term to common pleas ; in what cases.
Id. ; proceedings regulated.
Id. ; within what time ; where heard.
Id. ; determination upon appeal, how enforced. Id. ; where new trial was
X>roperly granted.
3195. Id. ; appeal therefrom to court of appeals.
§ 3188. Appeal to general term from a judgment. An appeal, to the
general term of the court, may be taken from a final judgment rendered
therein, in a case where an appeal may be taken to the general term of the
supreme court, from a final judgment rendered therein, as prescribed in
section 1346 of this act.
§ 3189. Id ; from an order. An appeal, to the general term of the court,
may also be taken from an interlocutory judgment rendered, or an order
made, at a special term or a trial term thereof, or an order made by a justice
thereof, out of court, in a case, where an appeal may be taken to the general
term of the supreme court, from an interlocutory judgment rendered, or an
order made, in like manner, as prescribed in sections 1347, 1348, and 1349
of this act.
§ 3190. Time to appeal from order ; proceedings thereupon. An
appeal, authorized by the last section, must be taken within ten days after
service of a copy of the judgment or order appealed from, and a written
notice of the entry thereof. In every other respect, titles first and fourth of
chapter twelfth of this act, apply to and govern an appeal, taken as prescribed
in either of the last two sections.
§ 3191. Appeal from general term to common pleas ; in what cases.
An appeal may be taken to the court of common pleas for the city and county
of New York, from an actual determination, made by the marine court of
the city of New York, at a general term thereof, in either of the following
cases :
1. Where a final judgment has been rendered, upon an appeal taken to the
general term.
2. Where an order has been made, granting a new trial. But an appeal
cannot be taken, from an order granting a new trial, upon a case or
exceptions, unless the notice of appeal contains an assent, on the part of the
appellant, that if the order is affirmed, judgment absolute may be rendered
against the appellant.
3. Where an order has been made which grants, refuses, continues or modifies
a provisional remedy ; or, where it invokes some part of the merits, or where it
affects a substantial right, or where, in effect, it determines the actum arid prevents
a judgment from which an appeal might be taken. [Added Ch. 399 of 1882.]
'§ 3192. Id. ; proceedings regulated. Titles first and third of chapter
twelfth of this act apply to and govern an appeal, taken as prescribed in the
last section, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in the next two sections.
§ 3193. Id. ; within what time ; where heard. An appeal, authorized
by the last section, must be taken within twenty days after service of a copy
of the judgment or order appealed from, and a written notice of the entry
thereof. The appeal must be heard at a general term of the appellate court.
§ 3194. Id. ; determination upon appeal, how enforced. Id. ; where
new trial was properly granted. The judgment or order of the appellate
court must be remitted to the court below, to be enforced according to law.
Upon an appeal from an order granting a new trial, on a case or exceptions,
if the appellate court determines that no error was committed in granting
the new trial, it must render judgment absolute upon the right of the
appellant ; and thereupon an assessment of damages, or any other proceeding,
requisite to render the judgment effectual, may be had in the marine court.
§ 3195. Id. ; appeal therefrom to court of appeals. Upon an appeal
to the court of appeals, the notice of appeal and undertaking must be filed
with the clerk of the marine court, who must transmit the necessary papers
10 the court of appeals ; and the judgment or order of the court of appeals
must be remitted to and enforced by the marine court.
Civil jurisdiction prescribed.
Certain pending1 actions, etc., transferred to supreme court.
Id. ; certain papei's, etc., to be transmitted to county clerk.
Power of supreme court, in actions, etc., so transferred.
Proceedings in case of judge's disability.
Service of subpoenas.
Effect of this title limited.
§ 3196. Civil jurisdiction prescribed. The civil jurisdiction of the
mayor's court of the city of Hudson, the recorder's court of the city of Utica,
and the recorder's court of the city of Oswego, extends only to an action
whereof jurisdiction is expressly conferred upon the court, by a provision of
a statute incorporating, or otherwise specially relating to the government of,
the city wherein the court is located.
§ 3197. Certain pending actions, etc., transferred to supreme court
Every civil action, now pending in either of those courts, other than an action
specified in the last section, is hereby transferred to the supreme court ;
and the subsequent proceedings therein, before and after the judgment,
must be the same, as if the action had been commenced in the supreme
court.
?3198. Id. ; certain papers, etc., to be transmitted to county clerk,
judgment-rolls, and other records, and all books and papers, relating
exclusively to civil actions, other than an action specified in the last section
but one, now remaining in either of those courts, must be delivered by the
clerk thereof, or, if there is no clerk, by the judge or other officer, having the
custody thereof, to the clerk of the county in which the court is located, to be
preserved among the records of his office. The expense of so doing is a county
charge.
§ 8199. Power of supreme court, in actions, etc., so transferred
The supreme court may review, enforce, vacate, or amend a final judgment
heretofore rendered by either of those courts, in a civil action, other than an
action specified in section 3196 of this act, with like power and effect, as the
court in which it was commenced might have so done, if this act had not
been passed.
§ 3200. Proceedings in case of judge's disability. The county court of
the county in which either of those courts is located, may, by an order, remove
to itself an action of which either of those courts has jurisdiction, as prescribed
in section 3196 of this act, upon proof, by affidavit, that the judge thereof is,
for any cause, incapable of acting, either generally or in the particular action.
Sections 344, 345, and 346 of this act apply to such an order of removal, and
to the proceedings subsequent thereto. The proceedings subsequent to the
order are the same, as in an action brought in the county court, except thaicosts must be awarded, as if the action had remained in the court from which
it was removed.
§ 3201. Service of subpoenas. A subpoena, issued out of either of those
courts, may be served upon a witness, at any place within the State. A
warrant to apprehend a witness, for a failure to obey such a subpoena, may be
directed to the sheriff of the county where the court is located, and executed
by him within any county of the State. The sheriff is subject to the same
liability, for a failure to serve or return it, as if it was issued out of the
supreme court.
§ 3202. Effect of this title limited. This title does not affect any provi
sion of law conferring upon a judge, or upon the judges, of either of those
courts, jurisdiction, power or authority, in an action brought in another
court, or in a special proceeding.
§ 3203. Jurisdiction in civil actions. The jurisdiction of the city court
of Yonkers extends to the following civil actions only :
1. An action against a natural person, or against a foreign or domestic
corporation, wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum of money
only, or to recover one or more chattels, with or without damages for the
taking, withholding, or detention thereof.
2. An action to foreclose or enforce a lien, upon real property in the city
of Yonkers, created, as prescribed by statute, in favor of a person who has
performed labor, or furnished materials to be used, in erecting, altering, or
repairing a building, building lot, or appurtenance thereto, including fences,
sidewalks, paving, wells, fountains, fish-ponds, ornamental and fruit trees,
and every other improvement to a building or building lot.
3. An action to foreclose or enforce a lien, for a sum not exceeding one
thousand dollars, exclusive of interest, upon one or more chattels.
§ 3024. Last section qualified. The jurisdiction conferred by the last
section is subject to the following limitations and regulations :
1. In an action wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum of
money only, the sum, for which judgment is rendered in favor of the plain
tiff, cannot exceed one thousand dollars, exclusive of interest, and costs as
taxed ; except where it is brought upon a bond or undertaking, given in an
action or a special proceeding in the same court, or before the city judge.
Where the action is brought upon a bond or other contract, the judgment
must be for the sum actually due, without regard to a penalty therein con
tained; and where the money is payable in installments, successive actions
may be brought, for the installments, as they become due.
2. In an action to recover one or more chattels, a judgment cannot be ren
dered, in favor of the plaintifff, for a chattel or chattels, the aggregate value
of which exceeds one thousand dollars.
3. The court has not jurisdiction of an action against an executor or
administrator, in his representative capacity.
4. The court has not jurisdiction of any action, unless one of the parties
thereto resides in the city of Yonkers, or in a town of Westchester county,
adjoining that city ; or a warrant of attachment is granted to accompany the
summons, and levied upon property of the defendant, within that city ; or
the action is brought to recover one or more statutory penalties, by the city
of Yonkers, or one of its officers or boards of commissioners.
§ 3205. Summons, where served. The summons, in an action brought
in the court, may be served at any place within the county of Westchester,
but not elsewhere.
§ 3206. This title does not affect jurisdiction of the court, eta, in
special proceedings. This title does not affect any provision of law, con
ferring upon the court, or upon the city judge of Yonkers, jurisdiction, power,
or authority, in a special proceeding ; or conferring upon the city judge of
Yonkers power or authority, in an action brought in another court.
§ 3207. Service of complaint with summons ; proceedings there
upon. Section 3126 of this act applies to an action to recover upon or for
breach of a contract, express or implied, brought in a district court of the
city of New York, in the justices' court of the city of Albany, or in the jus
tices' court of the city of Troy.
§ 3208. Id. ; and proof of service. In an action brought in either of
those courts, the summons, and in a proper case, a copy of the complaint,
may be served by any person not a party to the action ; except that, where
the action is brought in a district court of the city of New York, a person,
other than a constable or a marshal, serving the same, must be first empow
ered to do so, either by the justice, or by the attorney to the corporation, as
now prescribed by law. Proof of service thereof, by such a person, must be
made by his affidavit ; which must state the particular place, time, and
manner of service, and that the affiant knew the person so served, to be the
person mentioned and described in the summons, as defendant therein.
§ 3209. Action to be commenced by service of summons. An action,
brought in either of those courts, at, any time after this chapter takes effect,
must be commenced by the voluntary appearance of, end joinder of issue by,
the parties, or by the service of a summons.
§ 3210. Order of arrest ; warrant of attachment ; requisition to
replevy. Articles third, fourth, and fifth of title second of chapter nine
teenth of this act apply to an action brought in either of those courts, except
as otherwise prescribed in the next section.
§ 3211. The last section qualified. The provisions of the last section,
are subject to the following qualifications :
1. Nothing contained in either of the articles, so made applicable, applies
to an order of arrest, in an action brought in a district court of the city of
New York, or affects any provision of this title, relating to the jurisdiction
of either of the courts specified in this title.
2. An order of arrest, in an action brought in the justices' court of Albany,
or the justices' court of Troy, or a warrant of attachment, or a requisition
to replevy, in either of those courts, or in a district court of the city of
New York, must be granted by, and directed to, and executed by, the
officer empowered, by the statutes, remaining in force after this chapter
takes effect, to grant or execute, as the case requires, in the same court, a
warrant to arrest, a warrant of attachment, or a requisition in an action to
recover a chattel.
3. The manner of applying for, granting, and executing an order of arrest,
a wan-ant of attachment, or a requisition to replevy, and the proceedings
thereupon, and with respect thereto, as prescribed in the articles so made
applicable, are subject to the statutes, remaining unrepealed after this chap
ter takes effect, specially applicable to those courts, or to either or any of
them, prescribing the duties of the justice, or of the clerks thereof, or regu
lating the mode of transacting business in an action brought therein.
§ 3212. Proceedings where title to real property is in question.
Sections 2951 to 2958 of this act, both inclusive, apply to an action, brought
in either of those courts ; except that, where the action is brought in a dis
trict court of the city of New York, the surety upon the defendant's under
taking is liable, in the case specified in section 2952, to any amount, for
which judgment might have been rendered by the district court, if the
answer and undertaking had not been delivered.
§ 3213. Appeals. An appeal from a judgment rendered in a district
court of the city of New York, may be taken to the court of common pleas for
the city and county of New Fork, in the cases, and in the manner, prescribed
in articles first and second of title eight of chapter nineteenth of this act.
The appellate court may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment appealed from,
and where a judgment is reversed, may order a new trial in the district court.
Where a judgment is modified, or where a neio trial is ordered, costs shall be in
the discretion of the appellate court. An appeal from the judgment rendered
in the justices' court of the city of Albany, or the justices' court of the city
of Troy, may be taken in a case where an appeal may be taken to a county
court, from a judgment rendered by a justice of the peace, as prescribed by
title eight of that chapter, and in no other case. Such an appeal must be
taken to the county court of the county, wherein the court is located.
£Am'd Ch. 231 of 1883.]
§ 3214. Effect of this act upon jurisdiction and proceedings. Except
as otherwise specially prescribed in this title, this act does not affect any
statutory provision remaining unrepealed after this chapter takes effect,
relating to the jurisdiction and powers of either of those courts ; the
appointment, qualification, tenure of office, powers, or duties of the justices,
or of the clerk, or any other officer thereof ; or the proceedings therein ;
except that a provision of this or any other statute, whereby a proceeding
in an action, brought in either of those courts, or a special proceeding,
brought therein, or before a justice thereof, is assimilated, either expressly,
or by reference to another provision of law, to a proceeding, in an action or
a special proceeding before a justice of the peace, is deemed to refer to the
corresponding proceeding, as prescribed in chapter nineteenth of this act.
§ 3215. Jurisdiction in civil actions. Each district court of the city of
New York has jurisdiction of the following civil actions :
1. An action, of which a justice of the peace has jurisdiction, as pre
scribed in sections 1737, 2861, 2862, and 2863 of this act, including an
action against a domestic corporation, or against a foreign corporation hav
ing an office in the city of New York, where the sum claimed, or the value
of the chattel, or of all the chattels claimed, as stated in the complaint, does
not exceed two hundred and fifty dollars ; except that subdivision third of
section 2862, and subdivisions first and fourth of section 2863 of this act do
not apply to an action brought in either of those courts.
2. An action to recover a penalty, given by the charter of the city of New
York, or any by-law or ordinance of the common council of that city, or to
recover a penalty given by a statute of the State ; where all the penalties,
to recover which the action is brought, do not exceed two hundred and fifty
• dollars.
3. An action in behalf of the people of the State, brought by the direction
of the commissioners of public charities and correction of the city of New
York, or of an overseer of the poor, upon a bastardy or abandonment bond,
in a case where it is prescribed, by a special statutory provision, that such
an action can be maintained in a district court.
4. An action upon the bond of a marshal of that city, in a case where it
is prescribed, by a special statutory provision, that such an action can be
maintained in a district court.
Neither of those courts has jurisdiction of any civil action, except as pre
scribed in this section.
§ 3216. Removal of certain actions into common pleas. In an action,
specified in subdivision first or second of the last section, where the damages
claimed, or the value of the chattel, or of all the chattels claimed, as stated
in the complaint, exceeds one hundred dollars, the defendant may, after issue
is joined, and before an adjournment has been granted upon his application,
apply to the justice of the court in which the action is brought, for an arder
removing the action into the court of common pleas for the city and county
of New York. Such an order must be granted, upon the defendant's filing
with the clerk an undertaking, in a sum fixed by the justice, not exceeding
twice the amount of the damages claimed, or twice the value of the chattel,
or of all the chattels claimed, as stated in the complaint, with one or more
sureties, to the effect, that the defendant will pay to the plaintifff the amount
of any judgment, that may be recovered against him in the court of com
mon pleas, in the action so removed. From the time of the granting of the
order, the court of common pleas has cognizance of the action ; and the clerk
of the district court must forthwith deliver to the clerk of the court of com
mon pleas, all process, pleadings, and other papers in the action, and certified
copies of all minutes, entries, and orders relating thereto ; which must he
filed, entered, or recorded, as the case requires, in the latter's office.
§ 3217. When order of arrest may be granted. An order to arrest the
defendant must or may he granted, in an action brought in either of those
courts, in any case where a warrant of arrest must or may be issued in such
an action, as prescribed in the statutes remaining unrepealed after this chap
ter takes effect. Such a warrant shall not hereafter be issued.
§ 3218. Proceedings thereupon. An order of arrest must direct that
the summons accompanying it be made returnable, immediately upon the
arrest of the defendant ; and it must specify a sum, in which the defendant
may be let to bail. Sections 3179 to 3181, both inclusive, section 3182,
except the last sentence thereof, and section 3183 of this act, apply to an
order of arrest, granted in an action in either of those courts ; and to the pro
ceedings upon, and relating to, the execution thereof. In all other respects,
the statutory provisions remaining unrepealed after this chapter takes effect,
which apply to and regulate the application for a warrant to arrest a defend
ant, the granting and execution thereof, and the proceedings subsequent
thereto, apply to and regulate the application for an order of arrest, the
granting and execution thereof, and the proceedings subsequent thereto.
§ 3219. Requisites of certain undertakings. The sum specified in an
undertaking, given to procure a warrant of attachment, must be at least
twice the amount of the plaintifff's demand, as stated in the warrant. Where
such an undertaking, or an undertaking given to procure an order of arrest,
is executed by the plaintifff without any surety, the plaintifff must state, in
the affidavit of justification annexed to the undertaking, in addition to the
other matters required by law, that he is a resident of, and a householder"
within, the city of New York, specifying the street and the number, or other
sufficient identification, of the building where he resides.
§ 3220. Docketing judgments ; execution thereupon. Sections 3017
to 3022 of this act, both inclusive, apply to a judgment rendered in either of
those courts, and to the proceedings subsequent thereto, and in the action
wherein it was rendered ; except that the transcript, filed in the office of the
county clerk, must be furnished by the clerk of the district court ; that a
judgment, the transcript of which has been so filed, is deemed to be a judg
ment for the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York;
and that an execution, upon a judgment so docketed, may be issued, at the
option of the judgment creditor, either by the county clerk, directed to the
sheriff, or by the clerk of the district court, directed to a marshal. In the
latter case, it must be in the same form, and executed in the same manner,
as if the judgment was not so docketed.
§ 3221. Enforcement of certain judgments in favor of working
women. In an action brought in either of those courts, by a female, to
recover for services performed by her, if the plaintifff recovers a judgment
for a sum not exceeding fifty dollars, exclusive of costs, no property of the
defendant is exempt from levy and sale, by virtue of an execution against
property issued thereupon ; and, if such an execution is returned wholly or
partly unsatisfied, the clerk must, upon the application of the plaintifff, issue
an execution against the person of the defendant, for the sum remaining
uncollected. A defendant, arrested by virtue of an execution so issued
against his person, must be actually confined in the jail, and is not entitled
to the liberties thereof ; but he must be discharged, after having been so
confined fifteen days. After his discharge, an execution against his person
cannot be issued upon the judgment, but the judgment creditor may enforce
the judgment against property, as if the execution, from which the judgment
debtor is discharged, has been returned without his being taken.
§ 3222. Costs in action by working woman. Section 3131 of this act
applies to an action therein specified, brought in a district court of the city
of New York ; and costs must be allowed in such an action, as prescribed in
that section, in addition to the costs allowed in a district court, by the statu
tory provisions remaining in force after this chapter takes effect.
§ 3223. Jurisdiction in civil actions. The justices' court of the city of
Albany, and the justices' court of the city of Troy, have jurisdiction, each
within the city where the court is located, of an action, of which a justice
of the peace has jurisdiction, as prescribed in sections 1737, 2861, 2862, and
2863 of this act ; and also of an action to recover a penalty, given by the
charter, or a by-law or an ordinance of the common council of that city,
where the plaintifff demands judgment for a sum not exceeding two hundred
dollars. Neither of those courts has jurisdiction of any other civil action;
but this section does not affect the jurisdiction conferred, by the statutory
provisions remaining in force after this chapter takes effect, upon either of
those courts, in a special proceeding.
§ 3224. Id. ; upon judgment by confession The jurisdiction of each
of those courts extends also to the taking and entry of a judgment, upon
the confession of a defendant as prescribed in title sixth of chapter nine
teenth of this act, where the sum confessed does not exceed five hundred
dollars.
§ 3225. Docketing judgments ; execution thereupon The provisions
of sections 3017 to 3022 of this act, both inclusive, apply to a judgment
rendered in either of those courts, and to the proceedings subsequent
thereto, and in the action wherein the judgment was rendered; except that
the transcript, filed in the clerk's office of the county wherein the court is
located, must be furnished by the clerk of the court, in which the judgment
was rendered.
3227.
titles tenth and eleventh thereof, apply to the municipal court of the city of
Rochester, and to the judges thereof; except so far as they are inconsistent
■with the next section, or with any other special provision of statute, remain
ing unrepealed after this chapter taking effect. For the purpose of applying
the same, the court is deemed a justice's court ; each judge thereof is deemed
a justice of the peace ; and the city of Rochester is deemed a town of Mon
roe county.
§ 3227. Jurisdiction in actions upon contract The municipal court of
the city of Rochester has jurisdiction of an action to recover damages upon or
for a breach of contract, express or implied, other than a promise to marry,
-when the sum claimed does not exceed five hundred dollars. [Am'd Ch. 601
ov 1881.]
§ 3228. When plaintifff entitled to costs of course. The plaintifff is
entitled to costs, of course, upon the rendering of a final judgment in Mb
favor, in either of the following actions :
1. An action, triable by a jury, to recover real property, or an interest in
real property ; or in which a claim of title to real property arises upon the
pleadings, or is certified to have come in question upon the trial.
2. An action to recover a chattel. But if the value of the chattel, or of all
the chattels, recovered by the plaintifff, as fixed, together with the damages,
if any, awarded to him, is less than fifty dollars, the amount of his costs
cannot exceed the amount of the value and the damages.
3. An action specified in subdivision first, third, fourth, or fifth of section
2863 of this act. But if, in an action to recover damages for an assault,
battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, criminal conversation, seduction,
or malicious prosecution, the plaintifff recovers less than fifty dollars dam
ages, the amount of his costs cannot exceed the damages.
4. An action, other than one of those specified in the foregoing subdi
visions, of this section, in which the complaint demands judgment for a sum
of money only. But the plaintifff is not entitled to costs, under this subdi
vision, unless he recovers the sum of fifty dollars or more.
§ 3229. When defendant entitled to costs of course. Rule as to
two or more defendants The defendant is entitled to costs, of course,
upon the rendering of a final judgment, in an action specified in the last
section, unless the plaintifff is entitled to costs, as therein prescribed. But
where, in such an action against two or more defendants, the plaintifff is
entitled to costs against one or more, but not against all of them, none of the
defendants are entitled to costs, of course. In that case, costs may be
awarded, in the discretion of the court, to any defendant, against whom the
plaintifff is not entitled to costs, where he did not unite in an answer, and
was not united in interest, with a defendant, against whom the plaintifff is
entitled to costs.
§ 3230. When costs are discretionary. Except as prescribed in the
last two sections, the court may in its discretion, award costs to any party,
upon the rendering of a final judgment.
§ 3231. Costs, where several actions are brought on same instru
ment, etc. Where two or more actions are brought, in a case specified in
section 454 of this act, or otherwise for the same cause of action, against
persons who might have been joined as defendants in one action, costs,
other than disbursements, cannot be recovered, upon the final judgment, by
the plaintifff, in more than one action, which shall be at his election. But
this prohibition does not apply to a case where the plaintifff joins as defend
ants, in each action brought, all the persons liable, not previously sued, who
can with reasonable diligence, be found within the State ; or, if the action
is brought in a superior city court, or the marine court of the city of New
York, or a county court, within the city or county, as the case may be, where
the court is located.
§ 3232. Interlocutory costs upon issue of law. Where an issue of
law and an issue of fact are joined, between the same parties to the same
action, and the issue of fact remains undisposed of, when an interlocutory
judgment is rendered upon the issue of law ; the interlocutory judgment
may, in the discretion of the court, deny costs to either party, or award costs
to the prevailing party, either absolutely, or to abide the event of the trial
of the issue of fact.
§ 3233. Id ; how collected Section 779 of this act applies to interlo
cutory costs, awarded as prescribed in the last section, as if they were costs
of motion.
§ 3234. Costs where there are several issues of fact In an action
specified in section 3228 of this act, wherein the complaint sets forth sepa
rately two or more causes of action upon which issues of fact are joined, if
the plaintifff recovers upon one or more of these issues, and the defendant
upon the other or others, each party is entitled to costs against the adverse
party, unless it is certified that the substantial cause of action was the same
upon each issue ; in which case, the plaintifff only is entitled to costs. Costs,
to which a party is so entitled, must be included in the final judgment, by
adding them to, or off-setting them against, the sum awarded to the prevail
ing party; or otherwise, as the case requires. But this section does not
entitle a plaintifff to costs, in a case specified in subdivision fourth of section
3228 of this act, where he is not entitled to costs, as prescribed in that sub
division.
§ 3235. Id. ; after discontinuance upon answer of title. Where an
action brought before a justice of the peace, or in a district court of the city
of New York, or a justices' court of a city, has been discontinued, as pre
scribed by law, upon the delivery of an answer, showing that title to real
roperty will come in question ; and a new action, for the same cause, has
een commenced in the proper court ; the party, in whose favor final judg
ment is rendered in the new action, is entitled to costs ; except that, where
final judgment is rendered therein, in favor of the defendant, upon the trial
of an issue of fact, the plaintifff is entitled to costs, unless it is certified,
that the title to real property came in question on the trial.
§ 3236. Costs of a motion Costs, upon a motion in an action, where
the costs thereof are not specially regulated in this act, of upon a reference
made pursuant to sections 623, 624, 827, or 1015 of this act, may be awarded,
either absolutely or to abide the event of the action, or of the reference, to
any party, in the discretion of the court or judge.
§ 3237. The foregoing sections limited. The foregoing sections of this
article do not affect the recovery of costs upon an appeal.
§ 3238. Costs upon appeal from final judgment. Upon an appeal
from the final judgment in an action, the recovery of costs is regulated as
follows :
1. In an action specified in section 3228 of this act, the respondent ia
entitled to costs upon the affirmance, and the appellant upon the reversal,
of the judgment appealed from ; except that, where a new trial is directed,
costs may be awarded to either party, absolutely or to abide the event, in
the discretion of the court.
2. In every other action, and also where the final judgment appealed from
is affirmed in part, and reversed in part, costs may be awarded in like
manner, in the discretion of the court.
§ 3239. Id. ; upon appeal from interlocutory judgment or order.
Upon an appeal from an interlocutory judgment or an order, in an action,
costs are in the discretion of the court, and may be awarded absolutely, or
to abide the event, except as follows :
1. Where the appeal is taken from an order, granting or refusing a new
trial, and the decision upon the appeal refuses a new trial, the respondent
is entitled, of course, to the costs of the appeal.
2. Where an appeal is taken from an order, refusing a new trial, and an
appeal is also taken from the judgment rendered upon the trial, neither
party is entitled to the costs of the appeal from the order.
§ 3240. Id. ; in a special proceeding. Costs in a special proceeding,
instituted in a court of record, or upon an appeal in a special proceeding, taken
to a court of record, where the costs thereof are not specially regulated in
this act, may be awarded to any party, in the discretion of the court, at the
rates allowed for similar services, in an action brought in the same court,
or an appeal from a judgment taken to the same court, and in like manner.
[Am'd Ch. 122 of 1881.]
§ 3241. Costs against the State ; how paid. Where costs are awarded
against the people of the State, in an action or special proceeding brought,
by a public officer, pursuant to any provision of law, and the proceedings have
not been stayed, by appeal or otherwise ; the Comptroller must draw his
warrant upon the treasurer, for the payment of the costs, out of any money
in the treasury, appropriated for that purpose, upon the production to him
of an exemplified copy of the judgment, or order awarding the costs, and,
where the amount is not fixed thereby, of a taxed bill of costs ; accompanied,
in either case, with a certificate of the Attorney-General, to the effect that
the action or special proceeding was brought pursuant to law. The fees of
the clerk, for the exemplified copy, must be certified thereupon by him, and
included in the warrant.
§ 3242. Costs where action brought by people, on relation of private
person. Where an action is brought, in the name of the people of the State,
upon the relation of a private corporation or individual, as prescribed in sec
tion 1986 of this act, a judgment, awarding costs to the defendant, must
award them, against the relator, in the first instance ; and against the peo
ple, only in case an execution, issued thereupon against the property of the
relator, is returned unsatisfied.
§ 3243. Id. ; for the benefit of a county, etc. In an action or a special
proceeding, brought in the name of the people of the State, to recover money
or property, or to establish a right or claim, for the benefit of a county, city,
town, or village, costs shall not be awarded against the people ; but, where
they are awarded to the defendant, they must be awarded against the body
for whose benefit the action or special proceeding was brought.
§ 3244. Costs against a school officer. Costs cannot be awarded to the
plaintifff, in an action against a school officer, or a supervisor, on account of
an act performed by him, by virtue of, or under color of his office ; or on
account of a refusal or an omission to perform a duty enjoined upon him by
law; where his act, refusal, or omission might have been the subject of an
appeal to the State superintendent of public instruction, and where it is cer
tified that it appeared, upon the trial, that the defendant acted in good faith.
But this section does not apply to an action for a penalty ; or to an action
or a special proceeding, to enforce a decision of the superintendent.
§ 3245. Id; against a municipal corporation. Costs cannot be awarded
to the plaintifff, in an action against a municipal corporation, in which the
complaint demands a judgment for a sum of money only; unless the claim,
upon which the action is founded, was, before the commencement of the
action, presented for payment to the chief fiscal officer of the corporation.
§ 3246. Id ; by or against an executor, etc. In an action, brought by
or against an executor or administrator, in his representative capacity, or
the trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute
to sue or to be sued, costs must be awarded, as in an action by or against a
person, prosecuting or defending in his own right, except as otherwise pre
scribed in sections 1835 and 1836 of this act ; but they are exclusively charge
able upon, and collectible from the estate, fund, or person represented,
unless the court directs them to be paid, by the party personally, for mis
management or bad faith in the prosecution or defense of the action.
§ 3247. Costs in case of transfer, etc., of cause of action. Where
an action is brought, in the name of another, by a transferee of the cause of
action, or by any other person, who is beneficially interested therein ; or
where, after the commencement of an action, the cause of action becomes, by
transfer or otherwise, the property of a person, not a party to the action ;
the transferee, or other person so interested, is liable for costs, in the like
cases, and to the same extent, as if he was the plaintifff; and, where costs
are awarded against the plaintifff, the court may, by order, direct the person
so liable to pay them. Except in a case where he could not have been law
fully directed to pay costs, personally, if he had been a party, as prescribed
in the last section, his disobedience to the order is a contempt of court. But
this section does not apply to a case where the person so beneficially inter
ested, is the attorney or counsel for the plaintifff, if his only beneficial interest
consists of a right to a portion of the sum or property recovered, as compen
sation for his services in the action.
§ 3248. Certificate entitling party to costs, or increased costs. Where,
upon the trial of an action, the title to real property comes in question, or
any fact appears, whereby either party becomes entitled to costs, or to the
increased costs specified in section 3258 of this act, the judge presiding at
the trial, or the referee, must, upon the application of the party to be bene
fited thereby, either before or after the verdict, report, or decision is ren
dered, make a certificate, stating the fact. Such a certificate is the only
competent evidence, as to the matter, before the taxing officer.
§ 3249. Costs against infant plaintifff; collectible of guardian ad
litem. Where costs are awarded against an infant plaintifff, they may be
collected, by execution or otherwise, from his guardian ad litem, in like
manner as if the latter was the plaintifff.
§ 3250. This title not to affect special provisions of law. This title
does not affect any provision contained elsewhere in this act, or in any other
statute remaining unrepealed after this chapter takes effect ; whereby the
award of costs is specially regulated, in a particular case, otherwise than as
prescribed in this title.
§ 3251. Amount of costs generally. Costs, awarded to a party to an
action, must be at the following rates :
1. To the plaintifff:
For all proceedings, before notice of trial, in an action specified in section
420 of this act, fifteen dollars ; in every other action, twenty-five dollars.
For each additional defendant served with the summons, not exceeding
ten, two dollars ; and for each necessary-defendant in excess of that num
ber, served with the summons, one dollar.
For procuring the appointment of a guardian or guardians ad litem, for
one or more infant defendants, ten dollars.
For procuring an injunction order ; or, in the marine court of the city of
New York, an order of arrest, ten dollars.
2. To the defendant :
For all proceedings, before notice of trial, except as otherwise prescribed
in this article, ten dollars.
3. To either party :
For all proceedings, after notice of trial, and before trial, except as other
wise prescribed in this article, fifteen dollars.
For taking the deposition of a witness or of a party, as prescribed in sec
tion 870, section 871, or section 893 of this act, ten dollars.
For drawing interrogatories, to be annexed to a commission, or to letters
rogatory, issued as prescribed in sections 888, 912, 913, and 3171 of this act,
ten dollars.
For the trial of an issue of law, twenty dollars.
For the trial for an issue of fact, thirty dollars ; and where the trial neces
sarily occupies more than two days, ten dollars in addition thereto.
For making and serving a case, twenty dollars ; and where the case neces
sarily contains more than fifty folios, ten dollars in addition thereto.
For making and serving amendments to a case, ten dollars.
Upon a motion for a new trial upon a case, or an application for judgment
upon a special verdict, the same sums as upon an appeal, as prescribed in
subdivision fourth of this section.
Upon any other motion, or upon a reference specified in section 3236 of
this act, to each party to whom costs are awarded, a sum fixed by the court
or judge, not exceeding ten dollars besides necessary disbursements for printingand referee's fees.
Where a new trial is had, pursuant to an order granting the same, for all
proceedings after the granting of, and before the new trial, twenty-five
dollars.
For one term of the marine court of the city of New York, at which the
cause is necessarily on the calendar, and for each term of the circuit court,
or trial term, or special term, of the supreme court, a superior city court, or
a county court, not exceeding five, at which the cause is necessarily on the
calendar, excluding the term at which it is tried, or otherwise finally dis
posed of, ten dollars.
4. To either party, upon an appeal to the supreme court, from an inferior
court ; or upon an appeal to the general term of the supreme court, or of a
superior city court, or of the marine court of the city of New York, taken
from an interlocutory or final judgment, or from an order granting or refus
ing a new trial, rendered or made in the same court, or in a circuit court ; or
upon an appeal to the court of common pleas for the city and county of New
York, from the marine court of that city ; or upon an application to a general
term for a new trial, or for judgment upon a verdict, rendered subject to the
opinion of the court, or where exceptions are ordered to be heard, in the first
instance, at the general term :
Before argument, twenty dollars.
For argument, forty dollars.
For one general term of the marine court of the city of New York, at which
the cause is necessarily on the calendar ; and for each general term, not
exceeding five, of the supreme court, or of a superior city court, at which the
cause is necessarily on the calendar, excluding the term at which it is argued,
or otherwise finally disposed of, ten dollars.
5. To either party, upon an appeal to the court of appeals :
Before argument, thirty dollars.
For argument, sixty dollars.
For each term, not exceeding ten, at which the cause is on the calendar,
excluding the term at which it is argued, or otherwise finally disposed of,
ten dollars.
Where a judgment is affirmed by the court of appeals, the court may, in
its discretion, also award damages, by way of costs, for the delay, not exceed
ing ten per centum upon the amount of the judgment ; or, where it was ren
dered upon an appeal, upon the amount of the original judgment.
§ 3252. Additional allowance to plaintifff in foreclosure, partition,
etc. Where the action is brought to foreclose a mortgage upon real prop
erty ; or for the partition of real property ; or to procure an adjudication
upon a will or other instrument in writing ; or to compel the determination
of a claim to real property ; or where, in any action, a warrant of attachment
against property has been issued ; the plaintifff, if a final judgment is ren
dered in his favor, and he recovers costs, is entitled to recover, in addition
to the costs prescribed in the last section, the following percentages, to be
estimated upon the amount found to be due upon the mortgage ; or the
value of the property partitioned, affected by the adjudication upon the will
or other instrument, or the claim to which is determined ; or the value of
the property attached, not exceeding the sum recovered, or claimed ; as the
case may be :
Upon a sum, not exceeding two hundred dollars, ten per centum.
Upon an additional sum, not exceeding four hundred dollars, five per
centum.
Upon an additional sum, not exceeding one thousand dollars, two pet
centum.
Where such an action is settled before judgment, the plaintifff is entitled
to a percentage upon the amount paid or secured upon the settlement, at
one-half of those rates. In an action to foreclose a mortgage upon real
property, where a part of the mortgage debt is not due, if the final judgment
directs the sale of the whole property, as prescribed in section 1637 of this
act, the percentages, specified in this section, must be computed upon the
whole sum, unpaid upon the mortgage. But if it directs the sale of a part
only, as prescribed in section 1636 of this act, they must be computed upon
the sum actually due ; and if the court thereafter grants an order, directing
the sale of the remainder, or a part thereof, the percentages must be com
puted upon the amount then due ; but the aggregate of the percentages
shall not exceed the sum, which would have been allowed, if the entire sum
secured by the mortgage had been due, when final judgment was rendered.
§ 3253. Additional allowance to either party in difficult cases, etc.
In an action, brought to foreclose a mortgage upon real property ; or for the
partition of real property ; or in a difficult and extraordinary case, where a
defense has been interposed, in any action ; the court may also, in its dis
cretion, award to any party a further sum, as follows :
1. In an action to foreclose a mortgage, a sum not exceeding two and onehalf per centum upon the sum due or claimed to be due upon the mortgage,
nor the aggregate sum of two hundred dollars.
2. In any other case specified in this section, a sum not exceeding five
per centum upon the sum recovered, or claimed, or the value of the subjectmatter involved.
§ 3254. Allowances under the foregoing sections limited. But all
the sums awarded to the plaintifff, as prescribed in section 3252 of this act,
or to a party or two or more parties on the same side, as prescribed in the
last sentence of section 3251 of this act, and in subdivision second of the last
section, cannot exceed, in the aggregate, two thousand dollars.
§ 3255. Costs upon adjournment of trial Where an application is
made to a court or a referee, to adjourn a trial, the payment to the adverse
party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, or in the marine court of the city
of New York, a sum not exceeding five dollars, besides the fees of his wit
nesses, and other taxable disbursements, already made or incurred, which
are rendered ineffectual by the adjournment, may be required as a condition
of granting the adjournment.
§ 3256. Disbursements to be included in bill of costs. A party, to
whom costs are awarded in an action, is entitled to include, in his bill of
costs, his necessary disbursements, as follows : the legal fees of witnesses,
and of referees and other officers ; the reasonable compensation of commis
sioners taking depositions ; the legal fees for publication, where publication
is directed, pursuant to law ; the legal fees paid for a certified copy of a
deposition, or other paper, recorded or filed in any public office, necessarily
used or obtained for use on the trial ; the reasonable expenses of printing
the papers for a hearing, when required by a rule of the court; prospective
charges for the expenses of entering and docketing the judgment ; and the
sheriff's fees for receiving, and returning one execution thereon, including
the search for property ; and such other reasonable and necessary expenses,
as are taxable, according to the course and practice of the court, or by express
provision of law.
§ 3257. Increased damages not to carry increased costs. A plaintifff,
who recovers double or other increased damages, does not thereby become
entitled to more than single costs ; except where it is otherwise specially
prescribed by law.
§ 3258. When defendant entitled to increased costs. In either of
the following cases, a defendant, in whose favor a final judgment is rend
ered, in an action wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum of
money only, or to recover a chattel ; or a final order is made, in a special
proceeding instituted by a State writ, is entitled to recover the costs, pre
scribed in section 3251 of this act, and, in addition thereto, one-half thereof :
1. Where the defendant is or was a public officer, appointed or elected
under the authority of the State, or a person specially appointed, according
to law, to perform the duties of such an officer ; and the action or special
proceeding was brought by reason of an act done by him by virtue of his
office, or an alleged omission by him, to do an act, which it was his official
duty to perform.
2. Where the action was brought against the defendant, by reason of an
act done, by the command of such an officer or person, or in his aid or assist
ance, touching the duties of the office or appointment.
3. Where the action was brought against the defendant, for taking a dis
tress, making a sale, or doing any other act, by or under color of authority
of a statute of the State.
But this section does not apply, where an officer, or other person, specified
herein, unites in his answer with a person not entitled to such additional
COSt8.
§ 3259. Increased disbursements not allowed The increase, specified
in the last section, does not extend to the disbursements ; and an officer,
witness, or juror, is not entitled to any other fee in the action, except the
single fee allowed by law for his services.
§ 3260. Costs upon a settlement. Where an action, specified in section
3228 of this act, is settled before judgment, no greater sum shall be demanded
as costs, than at the rates prescribed by section 3251 of this act.
§ 3261. This article not to affect special provisions of law. This
article does not affect any provision contained elsewhere in this act. or in
any other statute remaining unrepealed after this act takes effect, whereby
the amount of costs is specially fixed, in a particular case, otherwise than as
prescribed in this article.
Costs ; how taxed. Allowances, etc. ; how computed.
Notice of taxation.
Retaxation.
Review of taxation.
Duty of taxing officer.
Affidavit respecting disbursements.
§3262. Costs; how taxed Allowances, etc. ; how computed Costs
must be taxed by the clerk, upon the application of the party entitled thereto ;
except that the court may direct, that interlocutory costs, or costs in a special
proceeding, be taxed by a judge. The clerk must insert, in the judgment
or final order, the amount of the costs, as taxed. In a case where the costs
are in the discretion of the court, the report or decision, or the direction of
the court for final judgment, upon a default, or after a jury trial, must
Bpecify which party or parties are entitled to costs ; but the amount of the
costs must be ascertained by taxation. The allowance, specified in section
3252 of this act, must be computed by the clerk upon the taxation ; but the
value of property, required to be ascertained for that purpose, must be
ascertained by the court, unless it has been fixed by the decision or report,
or by the verdict of the jury, upon which the final judgment is entered ;
except that, in case of actual partition, it must be determined by the
commissioners.
§ 3263. Notice of taxation. Costs may be taxed, upon notice to the
attorney for each adverse party, who has appeared, and is interested in
reducing the amount thereof. Notice of taxation must be served, not less
than five days before the taxation ; unless the attorneys, serving and served
with the notice, all reside, or have their offices, in the city or town, where
the costs are to be taxed ; in which case, a notice of two days is sufficient.
A copy of the bill of costs, specifying the items, with the disbursements
stated in detail, must be served with the notice of taxation.
§ 3264. Retaxation. Costs may also be taxed without notice. But where
they are so taxed, notice of retaxation thereof must immediately afterward
be given, as prescribed in the last section, by the party at whose instance
they were taxed ; in default whereof, the court must, upon the application
of a party entitled to notice, direct a retaxation, with costs of the motion, to
be paid by the party in default. The court may, in its discretion, upon the
application of a party interested, direct a retaxation of costs at any time.
Any sum, deducted upon a retaxation, must be credited upon the execution,
or other mandate issued to enforce the judgment.
§ 3265. Review of taxation. A taxation or a retaxation may be reviewed
by the court, upon a motion for a new taxation. The order, made upon
such a motion, may allow or disallow any item, objected to before the taxing
officer, in which case, it has the effect of a new taxation ; or it may direct a
new taxation before the proper officer, specifying the grounds or the proof,
upon which the item may be allowed or disallowed by nim.
§ 3266. Dnty of taxing officer. An officer, authorized to tax costs in an
action or a special proceeding, must, whether the taxation is opposed, or
not, examine the bills presented to him for taxation ; must satisfy himself
that all the items allowed by him are correct and legal ; and must strike out
all charges for fees, other than the prospective charges expressly allowed by
law, where it does not appear that the services, for which they are charged,
were necessarily performed.
§ 3267. Affidavit respecting disbursements. A charge, for the attend
ance of a witness, cannot be allowed without an affidavit, stating the number
of days of his actual attendance ; and, if travel fees are charged, the dis
tance for which they are allowed. A charge, for a copy of a document or
paper, cannot be allowed, without an affidavit, stating that it was actually
and necessarily used, or was necessarily obtained for use. An item of dis
bursements, in a bill of costs, cannot be allowed, in any case, unless it is
verified by affidavit, and appears to have been necessarily incurred, and to
be reasonable in amount.

When defendant may require security for costs.
Id. ; after action commenced.
The last two sections qualified.
Id. ; in actions by and against executors, etc.
Order to give security.
Requisites of undertaking.
Notice of exception ; id., of justification.
Justification of sureties. Allowance of undertaking.
Order to give additional security. Proceedings.
Effect of failure to obey order to give security.
Liability of attorney, for costs in certain actions.
This title applies to special proceedings.

§ 3268. When defendant may require security for costs. The defend
ant, in an action brought in a court of record, may require security for costs
to be given, as prescribed in this title, where the plaintifff was, when the
action was commenced, either
1. A person residing without the State ; or, if the action is brought in a
county court, or in the marine court of the city of New York, the city court
of Yonkera, or the justices' court of the city of Albany, residing without the
city or county, as the case may be, wherein the court is located ; or
2. A foreign corporation ; or
3. A person imprisoned under execution for a crime ; or
4. The official assignee of a person so imprisoned ; the official assignee or
official trustee of a debtor ; or an assignee in bankruptcy ; where the action
is brought upon a cause of action, arising before the assignment, the appoint
ment of the trustee, or the adjudication in bankruptcy; or
5. An infant, whose guardian ad litem has not given such security.
§ 3269. Id ; after action commenced The defendant, in alike action,
may require security for costs to be given, where, after the commencement
of the action, the plaintifff either
1. Ceases to be a resident of the State ; or, where the action is brought
in either of the local courts specified in subdivision first of the last section,
ceases to be a resident of the city or county, as the case may be, wherein the
court is located ; or
2. Is adjudicated a bankrupt, or discharged from his debts, or exonerated
from imprisonment, pursuant to a law of the State, or of the United
States ; or
3. Is sentenced to the State prison, for a term less than for life.
§ 3270. The last two sections qualified In a case specified in either
of the last two sections, if there are two or more plaintifffs, the defendant
cannot require security for costs to be given, unless he is entitled to require
it of all the plaintifffs.
§ 3271. Id ; in actions by and against executors, etc. In an action
brought by or against an executor or administrator, in his representative
capacity, or the trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized
by statute to sue, or to be sued; or by an official assignee, the assignee of a
receiver, or the committee of a person judicially declared to be incompetent
to manage his affairs ; the court may, in its discretion, require the plaintifff
to give security for costs.
§ 3272. Order to give security. Where security for costs is required to
be given, the court in which the action is pending, or, except in a case
specified in the last section, a judge thereof, upon due proof, by affidavit,
of the facts, must make an order requiring the plaintifff, vdthin a time
specified, either to pay into court, the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars,
to be applied to the payment of the costs, if any, awarded against him, or
at his election, to file with the clerk an undertaking, and to serve a written
notice of the payment or of the filing upon the defendant's attorney ; and
staying all other proceedings, on the part of the plaintifff, except to review
or vacate the order, until the payment or filing, and notice thereof, and
also, if an undertaking is given, the allowance of the same.
§ 3273. Requisites of undertaking. The undertaking, specified in the
last section, must be executed to the defendant by one or more sureties
and must be to the effect that they will pay, upon demand, to the defendant,
all costs which may be awarded to him in the action, not exceeding a sum,
specified in the undertaking, which must be at least two hundred and fifty
dollars.
§ 3274. Notice of exception ; id, of justification. Within ten days
after service of the notice of filing the undertaking, the defendant may serve
upon the plaintifff 's attorney a notice that he excepts to the sureties therein.
Within ten days after service of such a notice, the plaintifff must serve, upon
the defendant's attorney, a notice of the justification of the same or new
sureties before a judge of the court, or a county judge, at a specified time
and place ; the time to be not less than five nor more than ten days there
after, and the place to be within the county where the action is triable.
§ 3275. Justification of sureties. Allowance of undertaking. Sec
tion 580 of this act applies to the justification of the sureties. Where the
judge finds the sureties sufficient, he must annex the written examination,
if any, to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them
to be filed with the clerk. Where the defendant fails duly to except to the
sureties, the undertaking is deemed allowed, and must be indorsed and filed
in like manner.
§ 3276. Order to give additional security. Proceedings. At any
time after the allowance of an undertaking, given pursuant to such an order,
or as prescribed in section 3278 of this act, the court, or a judge thereof,
upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit, that the sum specified in the under
taking is insufficient ; or that one or more of the sureties have died, or
become insolvent, or that his or their circumstances have become so pre
carious that there is reason to apprehend that the undertaking is insufficient
for the security of the defendant ; must make an order, requiring the plain
tiff to give an additional undertaking. The last four sections apply to such
an order, and to the undertaking given pursuant thereto.
§ 3277. Effect of failure to obey order to give security. Where the
plaintifff fails to comply with an order, made as prescribed in this title, or to
procure the allowance of an undertaking given pursuant to such an order,
the defendant is entitled to a judgment dismissing the complaint, and in
his favor for costs. The defendant may apply therefore as upon a motion.
§ 3278. liability of attorney, for costs in certain actions. Where a
defendant is entitled to require security for costs, as prescribed in section
3268 of this act, the plaintifff 'a attorney is liable for the defendant's costs, to
an amount not exceeding one hundred dollars, until security is given, as
prescribed in this title. The plaintifff 's attorney may relieve himself from
that liability, although the defendant has not required security for costs to
be given, by filing and procuring the allowance of an undertaking, as if an
order had been made as prescribed in section 3272 of this act.
§ 3279. This title applies to special proceedings. The foregoing sec
tions of this title apply to a special proceeding instituted in a court of record,
in like manner as to an action; for which purpose, the prosecuting party,
other than the people, or, where the special proceeding is instituted in the
name of the people, upon the relation of a private corporation or individual,
the relator, is deemed a plaintifff, and the adverse party, a defendant.
Taking fees not prescribed by law, prohibited.
Id. ; for services not rendered, except, etc.
Penalty for extortion.
Clerk of court of appeals to account for and pay over fees.
Id. ; clerks of superior city courts in New York and Brooklyn.
Id. ; certain county clerks and registers.
General prevision as to fees, etc., to be accounted for,
Fees of certain officers to be taxed upon demand.
Parties, attorneys, etc., when not allowed fees.
No fee for administering certain official oaths.
Certain searches to be gratuitous.
Officer, etc., may charge fee paid for oath, postage, etc.
Id. ; his fees, etc., to be paid before required to transmit paper.
Prevision where printers in county refuse to publish.
Affidavit of refusal to publish, etc.
Comptroller to audit certain charges.

§ 3280. Taking fees not prescribed by law, prohibited. Each clerk
of a court must perform all the duties required of him, in the course and
practice of the court, without fee or reward, except as expressly prescribed
by law. Each public officer, upon whom a duty is expressly imposed
by law, must execute the same without fee or reward, except where a fee or
other compensation therefore is expressly allowed by law. An officer or other
person, to whom a fee or other compensation is allowed by law, for any
service, shall not charge or receive a greater fee or reward, for that service,
than is so allowed.
§ 3281. Id. ; for services not rendered, except, etc. An officer, or
other person, shall not demand or receive any fee or compensation, allowed
to him by law for any service, unless the service was actually rendered by
him ; except that an officer may demand in advance his fee, where he is,
by law, expressly directed or permitted to require payment thereof, before
rendering the service.
8 3282. Penalty for extortion. An officer or other person, who violates
either of the provisions contained in the last two sections, is liable in addi
tion to the punishment prescribed by law for the criminal offense, to an
action in behalf of the person aggrieved, in which the plaintifff is entitled
to treble damages.
§ 3283. Clerk of court of appeals to account for and pay over fees.
The clerk of the court of appeals must, within ten days after the first day
of January, and after the first day of July, in each year, render to the Comp
troller an accurate account, under oath, of all fees received by him for his
official services, since the last account was rendered ; and must pay the same
into the treasury of the State.
§ 3284. Id. ; clerks of superior city courts in New York and
Brooklyn. The clerk of each of the following courts, to wit : the court of
common pleas for the city and county of New York, and the superior court
of the city of New York, must account for all fees received by him for his
official services and pay the same into the city treasury, as prescribed by
law. The clerk of the city court of Brooklyn must account for all fines paid
to him, and all fees received by him for his official services, and pay the
same into the treasury of the county of Kings, as prescribed by law.
§ 3285. Id. ; certain county clerks and registers. Except as other
wise specially prescribed by law, each county clerk or register, who receives
a salary,' must account for, under oath, and pay to the treasurer of his county,
in the manner prescribed by law, all fees, perquisites, and emoluments,
received by him, for his official services.
§ 3286. General provision as to fees, etc., to be accounted for.
Where a public officer is required by law, to keep an account of, or to pay
over, the fees or other monies, received by him for official services, he must
include therein all sums, received by him, to which he was entitled, by
reason of any act, performed by him in his official capacity, whether the act
did or did not pertain to his office, or to the business thereof.
§ 3287. Fees of certain officers to be taxed upon demand. Each
county clerk or register of deeds, who claims any fees by virtue of his office ;
and each sheriff or coroner, who, upon the collection of an execution, or the
settlement, either before or after judgment, of an action or a special proceed
ing, claims any fees, which have not been taxed ; must, upon the written
demand of the person liable to pay the same, cause them to be taxed within
the county, upon notice to the person making the demand, by a justice of
the supreme court, a judge of a superior city court, or the county judge.
After such a demand is made, the officer cannot collect his fees, until they
have been so taxed.
§ 3288. Parties, attorneys, etc., when not allowed fees. A party to
an action or a special proceeding is not entitled to a fee, for attending as a
witness therein, in his own behalf, or in behalf of a party who pleads jointly,
or is united in interest, with him ; and an attorney or counsel, in an action
or a special proceeding, is not entitled to a fee, for attending as a witness
therein, in behalf of his client.
§ 3289. No fee for administering certain official oaths. An officer is
not entitled to a fee, for administering the oath of office to a member of the
Legislature, to any military officer, to an inspector of election, clerk of the
poll, or any town officer ; or to more than ten cents, for administering an
official oath to any other officer.
§ 3290. Certain searches to be gratuitous. Each of the following
officers, to wit : the Secretary of State, the Comptroller, the Treasurer, the
Attorney-General, and the State Engineer and Surveyor, may require search
to be made, in the office of either of the others, or of a county clerk, or of
the clerk of a court of record, for any record, document, or paper, where he
deems it necessary for the discharge of his official duties, and a copy thereof
or extracts therefrom, to be made and officially certified or exemplified,
without the payment of any fee or charge.
§ 3291. Officer, etc., may charge fee paid for oath, postage, etc.
"Where an officer or other person is required, in the course of a duty imposed
upon him by law, to take an oath, to acknowledge an instrument, to cause
an instrument to be filed or recorded, or to transmit a paper to another
officer, he is entitled, in addition to the fees, or other compensation for the
service, prescribed by law, to the fees necessarily paid by him, to the officer
who administered the oath, or took the acknowledgment, or filed or recorded
the instrument ; and to the expense of transmitting the paper, including
postage, where the transmission is lawfully made through the post-office.
§ 3292. Id. ; his fees, etc., to be paid before required to transmit
paper. Each provision of this act, requiring a judge, clerk, or other officer
to transmit a paper to another officer, for the benefit of a party, is to be con
strued as requiring the transmission only at the request of the person so to
be benefited, and upon payment by him of the fees allowed by law for the
paper transmitted, or any copy or certificate connected therewith, and the
expenses specified in the last section.
§ 3293. Provision where printers in county refuse to publish If the
proprietor of each newspaper, published in a city or county, in which any
notice, order, citation, or other paper is required by law to be published,
refuses to publish the same, for the fees prescribed by law for the publication,
it may be published in the newspaper, printed at Albany, in which legal
notices are required by law to be published. If it is required by law to be
published in that newspaper, and also in another newspaper published in a
city or county, and the proprietor of each newspaper in that city or county
refuses to publish it for the fees so prescribed, it may be published in the
newspaper, published nearest to the place, where a person is required to
appear, or where an act is to be done, pursuant thereto, the proprietor of
which will publish the same, for those fees. Publication made as prescribed
in this section, is as valid, as if it was made in the city or county, where
the publication thereof is so required by law.
§ 3294. Affidavit of refusal to publish, etc. Where publication is
made, as prescribed in the last section, elsewhere than in the city or county
where it is otherwise required by law to be made, the affidavit of publication
must either be accompanied with an affidavit, or contain a statement, to the
effect that an application to publish the advertisement was, before such
publication, made to the proprietor of each newspaper published in the city
or county ; that the amount of the legal fees for such publication was at the
same time tendered, and that the application was refused. Such an affidavit
is presumptive evidence of the facts stated therein.
§ 3295. Comptroller to audit certain charges. Where the fees or
other charges of an officer are chargeable to the State, they must be audited
by the Comptroller, and paid on his warrant, except as otherwise specially
prescribed by law.
§ 3296 Referee's fees generally. A referee, in an action or a special
proceeding, brought in a court of record, or in a special proceeding, taken as
prescribed in title twelfth of chapter seventeenth of this act, is entitled to
six dollars for each day, spent in the business of the reference ; unless, at or
before the commencement of the trial or hearing, a different rate of compen
sation is fixed, by the consent of the parties, other than those in default for
failure to appear or plead, manifested by an entry in the minutes of the
referee, or otherwise in writing, or a smaller compensation is fixed by the
court or judge in the order appointing him.
§ 3297. Id. ; upon sales of real property. The fees of a referee
appointed to sell real property pursuant to a judgment in an action, are the
same as those allowed to the sheriff; and he is also allowed the same dis
bursements as the sheriff. Where a referee is required to take security upon
a sale, or to distribute, or apply, or ascertain and report upon the distribution
or application of, any of the proceeds of the sale, he is also entitled to onehalf of the commissions upon the amount so secured, distributed, or applied,
allowed by law to an executor or administrator for receiving and paying out
money But commissions shall not be allowed to him upon a sum bidden by
a party, and applied upon that party's demand, as fixed by the judgment,
without being paid to the referee. And a referee's compensation, including
commissions, cannot, where the sale is under a judgment in an action to
foreclose a mortgage, exceed fifty dollars, or in any other case five hundred
dollars.
§ 3298. Fees for oaths and acknowledgments. Any officer, authorized
to perform the services specified in this section, and to receive fees therefore,
is entitled to the following fees :
1. For administering an oath or affirmation, and certifying the same when
required, except where another fee is specially prescribed by statute, twelve
cents.
2. For taking and certifying the acknowledgment or proof of the execu
tion of a written instrument : by one person, twenty-five cents ; and by each
additional person, twelve cents : for swearing each witness thereto, six cents.
§ 3299. Surveyors' and commissioners' fees, in action for partition
or dower, etc. A surveyor, employed as prescribed by law, in an action
for partition or dower, or to determine dower, is entitled to five dollars for
each day, actually and necessarily occupied in surveying, laying out, mark
ing, or mapping land therein. Each assistant, so employed, is entitled to
two dollars for each day, actually and necessarily occupied in serving under
the surveyor's direction. Each commissioner, appointed as prescribed by law,
to make partition or admeasure dower, is entitled to five dollars for each day's
actual and necessary service.
§ 3300. Fees of the clerk of the court of appeals. The clerk of the
court of appeals is entitled, for the services specified in this section, to the
following fees :
For filing a notice of appeal to that court, and all the papers transmitted
therewith, fifty cents.
For filing any other paper, ten cents.
For drawing an order, twenty cents for each folio.
For entering an order, twenty cents ; and for each folio more than two,
ten cents.
For drawing a judgment, twenty-five cents ; and for each folio more than
two, ten cents.
For entering a judgment, twenty-five cents ; and for each folio more than
two, ten cents.
For a certified copy of an order, record, or other paper, entered or filed in
his office, ten cents for each folio.
For engrossing a remittitur, ten cents for each folio.
For a certificate, other than that a paper, for the copying of which he is
entitled to a fee, is a copy, twenty-five cents.
For sealing any paper, when required, fifty cents.
§ 3301. Clerk's fees in civil actions generally. Except as otherwise
prescribed in the next section, each clerk of a court of record is entitled, for
his services in an action or a special proceeding, brought in or transferred to
the court of which he is clerk, to the following fees :
Upon the trial of the action, or the hearing, upon the merits, of the special
proceeding, from the party bringing it on, one dollar.
For entering final judgment in the action, or entering a final order in the
special proceeding, including the filing of the judgment-roll, and a copy of
the judgment to insert therein, fifty cents; and ten cents in addition for
each folio exceeding ten, contained in the order or judgment.
For entering any other order or an interlocutory judgment, cen cents for
each folio, exceeding five.
For a certified or other copy of an order, record, or other paper, entered
or filed in his office, five cents for each folio.
For a certified transcript of the docket of a judgment, twelve cents.
For filing a transcript and docketing or re-docketing a judgment there
upon, six cents.
He is not entitled to any fee, or other compensation, for any other service,
in an action or a special proceeding in the court, except that where he is
also county clerk, he may charge fees as prescribed in section 3304 of this
act, subject to the limitations therein contained. Where the attorneys fur all
the parties interested, other than parties in default or against whom a judgment or
a final order has been taken, and is not appealed from, stipulate in writing that a
paper is a copy of any paper whereof a certified copy is required by any provision
of tfiis act, the stipulation takes the place of a certificate, as to t/ie parties so stipu
lating, and the clerk is not required to certify the same or entitled to anyfee therefore.
[Added Ch. 399 op 1882.]
§ 3302. The last section qualified. The last section does not apply to
the clerk of a surrogate's court, of the marine court of the city of New York,
of the city court of Yonkers, of the justices' court of the city of Albany, or of
a mayor's or recorder's court.
§ 3303. Clerk's fees upon naturalization The clerk of any court, wnich
has jurisdiction to naturalize an alien, is entitled, for the services specified
in this section, to the following fees :
For all services, upon the filing of a declaration of intention by an alien to
become a Citizen, including the oath or affirmatiou, the recording of the
same, and a certificate thereof delivered to the alien, twenty cents.
For all services, upon the admission of the alien to be a citizen, including
the recording of the papers, and a certified copy of the record, which must
be delivered to any person requiring it, fifty cents.
§ 3304. Fees of county clerks generally. A county clerk is entitled,
for the services specified in this section, except where another fee is allowed
therefore by special statutory provision, to the following fees :
For searching and certifying the title to, and encumbrances upon real
property, for each year for which the search is made, for each name, and
each kind of conveyance or -lien, five cents.
For a copy of an order, record, or other paper, entered or filed in his office,
eight cents for each folio.
For filing a transcript, and making an entry as prescribed in section 1258
of this act, twelve cents.
For issuing an execution upon a judgment, a transcript whereof, or of the
docket of which, has been filed in his office, fifty cents, to be paid by the
party at whose request the execution is issued, and to be collected by
the sheriff in addition to the sum due upon the judgment.
For recording and indexing a notice of the pendency of an action filed in
his office, ten cents for each folio contained in the notice.
For cancelling such a notice, or a notice filed in his office, as prescribed in
section 649 of this act, twenty-five cents.
For recording any instrument, which must or may legally be recorded by
him, ten cents for each folio.
For filing a certificate of satisfaction, or other satisfaction-piece, of a mort
gage, and entering the satisfaction, twenty-five cents.
For affixing and indexing a notice of foreclosure of a mortgage as pre
scribed in section 2390 of this act, twenty-five cents.
For entering a minute that a mortgage has been foreclosed, ten cents.
For filing and entering a satisfaction or an assignment of a judgment,
twelve cents.
For filing and entering the bond of a collector or other officer authorized
to receive taxes, twelve cents.
For searching for such a bond, six cents.
For entering satisfaction thereof, twelve cents.
For sealing any paper, when required, twelve cents.
For filing and docketing notice of a mechanic's lien, ten cents.
For filing and entering specifications and all other papers relating jo a
lien against a vessel, twenty-five cents.
r required by law to be filed in his office, other than
as expressly provided for in this section, six cents.
For filing any paper deposited with him for safe-keeping, six cents ; and
for searching for such a paper, when required, three cents for each paper
necessarily opened and examined.
For a certificate, other than that a paper, for the copying of which he is
entitled to a fee, is a copy, twenty-five cents.
For inquiring into, determining, and certifying the sufficiency of the
sureties of a sheriff, fifty cents.
For attending upon the canvassing of votes, given at an election, two
dollars.
For drawing the necessary certificates of the result of the canvass, eighteen
cents for each folio ; and for the necessary copies thereof, nine cents foT
each folio.
For notifying the governor that any person has taken an oath of office, ten
cents and the necessary postage.
For notifying the governor that any person has neglected to take an oath
of office, or to file or renew any security, within the time prescribed by law,
or of a vacancy in an office in his county, ten cents and the necessary
postage.
For notifying any person of his appointment to office, twenty-five cents,
and the expenses, actually and necessarily incurred in giving the notice,
which the comptroller deems reasonable.
For entering, in the minutes of the county court, a license to keep a ferry,
and for a copy thereof, one dollar.
For taking and entering a recognizance, from any person authorized to
keep a ferry, twenty-five cents.
But a county clerk is not entitled to any fee, *mder this section, for a copy
of, or for filing or certifying, any paper, in a civil action or special proceed
ing, in a court of which he is ex-officio clerk.
§ 3305. Certain provisions not affected by the last section. The
last section does not affect any special statutory provision, remaining unre
pealed after this title takes effect, whereby a fee, different from the fee
therein allowed, is allowed to the clerk of the city and county of New York,
or of the county of Kings, for a service therein specified.
§ 3306. Fees of register and other clerks. The register of any county,
or the clerk of any court of record, is entitled, for any services specified in
the last section but one, which he is authorized to perform, to the fees speci
fied therein, subject to the qualifications therein contained.
§ 3307. Sheriff's fees. A sheriff is entitled, for the services specified in
this section, to the following fees :
1. For serving a summons, with or without either a copy of the complaint,
or a notice specified in section 419 or section 423 of this act ; or for serving
or executing an order of arrest, or any other mandate, for the service or
execution of which no other fee is specially prescribed by law, except a
subpoena, one dollar for each person served or as to whom it is executed ;
and for necessary traveling to serve or execute the same, six cents for each
mile traveled, going and returning; the traveling fees to be computed
from the court house of the county ; or, if there are two or more court houses,
from that nearest to the place of service or execution. But where two or
more mandates are delivered to a sheriff, to be served upon or executed
against one person at one time, in one action or special proceeding; or
where a mandate is served upon or executed against two or more persons,
in one action or special proceeding, and in the course of one journey ; the
sheriff is entitled, in all, to six cents only, for each mile traveled.
2. For levying a warrant of attachment, against the property of a defend
ant, issued as prescribed in title third of chapter seventh of this act, or for
executing a requisition to replevy one or more chattels, one dollar ; and, also,
such additional compensation, for his trouble and expenses, in taking posses
sion of and preserving the property, as the judge, issuing the warrant, or in
case of a replevin, as the court or a judge thereof allows. For making and
filing a description of real property, or an inventory of personal property
attached, twenty-five cents for each folio ; for each necessary copy thereof,
twelve cents for each folio ; together with such compensation to the apprais
ers, as the judge issuing the warrant allows, not exceeding two dollars to
each appraiser, for each day actually employed. For advertising, during
the pendency of the action, personal property attached, the same fees as
are allowed to a sheriff for advertising personal property for sale, by virtue
of an execution. If the action is settled, either before or after judgment,
the sheriff is entitled to poundage, upon the value of the property attached,
not exceeding the sum at which the settlement is made.
3. For a copy, necessarily made by him, of a summons or other mandate,
or of a complaint, affidavit, or other paper served by him, where no fee
therefore is specially prescribed by law, twelve cents for each folio.
4. For notifying jurors to attend a trial term of a court of record, fifty
cents for each cause placed upon the calendar, for trial by a jury, to be paid
by the party first putting the cause on the calendar for that term. But the
sheriff is not entitled to more than one dollar and fifty cents for calendar
fees in one action. The clerk shall not put a cause upon the calendar, for
trial by a jury, until the fee, specified in this subdivision, is paid to him,
for the use of the sheriff. And where the cause is tried at a subsequent
term, without a new note of issue, as prescribed in section 977 of this act,
the party moving the trial must pay to the clerk, for the use of the sheriff,
the calendar fee or fees remaining unpaid.
5. For notifying jurors drawn to attend upon a writ of inquiry, or to try,
the validity of a claim to personal property, seized by virtue of a warrant of
attachment or an execution, or in obedience to a precept, issued by commis
sioners appointed to inquire concerning the incompetency of a person to
manage himself or his affairs, in consequence of idiocy, lunacy, or habitual
drunkenness, or in any case not provided for in the last preceding subdi
vision of this section, including the making and return of the inquisition
when required, for each juror notified, twenty-five cents. For attending a
jury, when required, in such a case, two dollars.
6. For receiving an execution against property, entering it in his books,
searching for property, and postage on the return, when made through the
post-office, fifty cents. If required by the sheriff, that fee, together with his
fee for returning the execution, must be paid by the person in whose behalf
the execution is issued, at the time when it is delivered to the sheriff, who
is not bound to execute it unless the fee is so paid. For mileage upon an
execution, for each mile, going only, ten cents ; to be computed as prescribed
in subdivision first of this section.
7. For collecting money by virtue of an execution, a warrant of attach
ment, or an attachment for the payment of money in an action or a special
proceeding ; or by virtue of a warrant for the collection of money, issued by
the Comptroller, or by a county treasurer ; in any county except New York,
Kings, or Westchester, three per centum upon the sum collected, not exceed
ing two hundred and fifty dollars, and two per centum upon the residue of
the sum collected ; and in either of the counties of New York, Kings, or
Westchester, two and one-half per centum upon the sum collected, not
exceeding two hundred
centum upon the residue of the sum collected ; and also, where an execution
is stayed after a levy, by order of the court or otherwise, or where a levy is
upon a live animal, or speedily perishable property, such additional com
pensation, for his trouble and expenses in taking care of and preserving the
property, as the court or a judge thereof allows. Where a settlement is
made after a levy by virtue of an execution, the sheriff is entitled to pound
age upon the value of the property levied upon, not exceeding the sum at
which the settlement is made, and to the additional compensation, if any,
provided for in this subdivision.
8. For advertising real or personal property for sale, by virtue of an exe
cution, warrant of attachment, or other warrant specified in the last preced
ing subdivision, two dollars, unless it is stayed or settled before sale ; and
in that case, one dollar.
9. For making duplicate certificates of the sale of real property, by virtue
of an execution, twenty-five cents for each folio. For drawing and executing
a conveyance, upon a sale of real property, two dollars, to be paid by the
grantee. The sheriff is also entitled to the printer's fees, as prescribed by
law, paid by him for the publication, not more than six weeks, of a notice of
the sale of real property, and he may require the party directing the sale to
advance the printer's fees, in which case he must repay the same out of the
proceeds. Where the notice is published more than six weeks, or the sale
is postponed, the expense of continuing the publication, or of publishing the
notice of postponement, must be paid by the person requesting it. Where
two or more executions against the property of one judgment debtor are in
the hands of the sheriff, at the time when the property is first advertised,
the sheriff is entitled to printer's fees upon only one execution ; and he
must elect upon which execution he will receive the same.
10. For returning any mandate, which he is required by law to return,
twelve cents. For a certified copy of an execution, and of the return of
satisfaction thereupon, delivered as prescribed in section 1266 of this act,
twenty-five cents.
11. For posting and publishing the notice e.f sale, selling, and conveying
real property, in pursuance of a direction contained in a judgment, the like
fees, as for the same services upon the sale of real property by virtue of an
execution ; but where real property is sold under a judgment in an action
to foreclose a mortgage, the sheriff's entire compensation cannot exceed
fifty dollars.
12. For taking a bond for the liberties of the jail, one dollar. For taking
any other bond, or any undertaking, which he is authorized to take, fifty
cents. For a certified copy of such a bond or undertaking, twenty-five
cents.
13. For executing any mandate, requiring him to put a person into
possession of real property, other than a warrant specified in subdivision
eighteenth of this section, and removing the person in possession, one
dollar and fifty cents, and the same travel fees as upon the service of a
summons.
14. For each person committed to or discharged from prison, in an action
or a special proceeding, one dollar, to be paid by the person at whose
instance he is imprisoned. For attending before an officer, for the purpose
of surrendering a prisoner, or receiving into custody a prisoner surrendered,
in exoneration of his bail, including all his services upon such a surrender
or receipt, one dollar.
15. For attending a view, two dollars for each day, and for traveling,
going and returning, eight cents for each mile.
16. For bringing up a prisoner, upon a writ of habeas corpus to inquire
into the cause of detention, one dollar and fifty cents ; and for traveling to
and from the jail, twelve cents for each mile. For bringing up a prisoner,
upon any other writ of habeas corpus, the same fees ; and for attending the
court or judge thereupon, one dollar for each day. The sheriff is entitled,
in addition to the sums specified in this subdivision, to his actual and neces
sary expenses.
17. For any services, which may be rendered by a constable, other than
those specially provided for in this section, the same fees, as are allowed by
law to a constable for those services.
18. For executing a warrant, to remove any person from lands, belonging
to the people of the State, or to Indians, such a sum as the Comptroller
audits, and certifies to be a reasonable compensation.
19. For giving notice of any general or special election, to all the officers,
to whom he is required by law to give such a notice, one dollar for each
town or ward, in addition to the expense of publishing the notices, as
required by law ; payable from the county treasury.
20. For notifying constables to attend a court, fifty cents for each consta
ble notified.
21. For attending a term of a court, which he is required by law to
attend, for each day, three dollars.
§ 3308. The last section qualified. The last section, except the limita
tion of amount contained in subdivision eleventh thereof, does not affect any
special statutory provision, remaining unrepealed after this title takes effect,
relating to the fees and expenses of the sheriff of the city and county of
New York, or the sheriff of the county of Kings.
§ 3309. Id. ; how collected. The fees of a sheriff, upon an execution
against property, other than those with respect to which it is specially pre
scribed by statute, either that they must be paid by a particular person, or
that they may be included in the costs of the party in whose favor the exe
cution is issued, must be collected by virtue of the execution, in the same
manner as the sum therein directed to be collected.
§ 3310. Coroner's fees. A coroner is entitled, for the services specified
in this section, to the following fees :
1. For performing any duty of a sheriff, in an action or a special proceed
ing, in which the sheriff is, for any cause, disqualified, the same fees to
which a sheriff is entitled for the same services.
2. For confining a sheriff in a house, by virtue of a mandate, and main
taining him while there, two dollars for each day, to be paid by the sheriff,
before he is entitled to be discharged.
§ 3311. Stenographer's fees for copies of notes. Except where special
provision is otherwise made by statute, a stenographer is entitled, for a copy,
fully written out from his stenographic notes, of the testimony, or any other
proceeding, taken in an action or a special proceeding in a court of record,
or before a judge thereof, and furnished, upon request, to a party or his
attorney, to the following fees, for each folio : In the city court of Brooklyn,
five cents ; in any other court within the county of Kings, or in a circuit
court or court of oyer and terminer, or at a special term of the supreme court,
in the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, or eighth judicial district, or in the
superior court of Buffalo, six cents ; in any other court or case, ten cents.
§ 3312. Compensation of constables attending courts. A constable
or a deputy sheriff is entitled for attending a sitting of a court of record,
pursuant to a notice from the sheriff, to the following fees for each day's
actual attendance in any county in the state, except Kings or New York, two
dollars and mileage, as allowed by law to trial jurors in courts of record. Those
fees must be paid by the county treasurer, upon the production of the cer
tificate of the clerk, stating the number of days that the constable or deputy
sheriff attended. [Am'd Ch. 122 of 1881.]
§ 3313. Pees of trial jurors. A trial juror, in an action or a special pro
ceeding, in a court of record, is entitled, except as otherwise specially pre
scribed by statute in a particular court, or a particular county, to the follow
ing fees : Twenty-five cents for each cause in which he is empaneled, to be
paid by the party noticing the cause for trial ; or, if it is noticed by more
than one party, by the party whom the court directs to pay it.
§ 3314. Supervisors may make allowance to grand and trial jurors.
In the county of New York, the- common council, and in any other county,
the board of supervisors, may direct that a sum, not exceeding two dollars,
in addition to the fees prescribed in the last section, or in any other statutory
provision, be allowed to each grand juror, and each trial juror, for each day's
attendance at a term of a court of record, of civil or criminal jurisdiction,
held within their county ; and also travel fees for going to and returning
from the term, not exceeding five cents for each mile. The sum so allowed
must be paid by the county treasurer, upon the certificate of the clerk of the
court, stating the number of days that the juror actually attended, and the.
number of miles traveled by him, in order to attend. The amount so paid
must be raised in the same manner, as other county charges are raised.
§ 3315. Id ; extra pay upon protracted trials. Where the trial, by a
jury, of an issue of fact, in either a civil or a criminal action or special pro
ceeding, in a court of record, occupies more than thirty days, the court, by
an order entered in the minutes, may fix and allow, to each juror, such an
extra compensation as it deems reasonable, for his services thereupon ; the
amount of which compensation, together with the expenses, actually and
necessarily incurred, for food for the jurors during the trial, is a county
charge.
§ 3316. Jurors' fees in special proceedings. A trial juror, sworn in a
special proceeding, before a judge of a court of record; or upon a writ of
inquiry ; or upon a trial, before a sheriff, of a claim to personal property,
seized by virtue of a warrant of attachment or an execution ; is entitled to
twenty-five cents, to be paid by the person at whose instance the jury is
empaneled.
§ 3317. Fees of printers. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by
law, the proprietor of a newspaper is entitled, for publishing a summons,
notice, order, citation, or other advertisement, required by law to be pub
lished, other than the session laws, for each folio, to seventy-five cents for
the first insertion, and fifty cents for each subsequent insertion. The com
pensation, for publishing the session laws, must be fixed by the board of
supervisors, at not more than fifty cents for each folio.
§ 3318. Witnesses' fees generally. A witness in an action or a special
proceeding, attending before a court of record, or a judge thereof, is enti
tled, except where another fee is specially prescribed by law, to fifty cents
for each day's attendance ; and, if he resides more than three miles from the
place of attendance, to eight cents for each mile, going to the place of
attendance.
§ 3319. Id ; on deposition to be used in another State. A witness,
attending before a commissioner or an officer, authorized to take his deposi
tion to be used without the State, in a case other than one specified in sec
tion 3327 of this act, is entitled to two dollars for each day's actual attend
ance, and to eight cents for each mile, going to the place of attendance.
§ 3320. Receiver's commissions. A receiver, except as otherwise
specially prescribed by statute, is entitled, in addition to his lawful expenses,
to such a commission, not exceeding five per centum upon the sums received
and disbursed by him, as the court by which, or the judge by whom he is
appointed, allows.
§ 3321. Fees of county treasurer and chamberlain of New York. *
A county treasurer, or, in the city and county of New York, the chamber
lain, is entitled, for the services specified in this section, to the following
fees:
For receiving money paid into court, one-half of one per centum, upon
the sum so received.
For paying out the same, one-half of one per centum, upon the sum so
paid out.
For investing money, pursuant to the direction of a court, one-half of one
per centum upon the sum invested, not exceeding two hundred dollars, and
one-quarter of one per centum upon the excess, over two hundred dollars.
For receiving the interest upon an investment, and paying the same to
the person entitled thereto, one-half of one per centum upon the interest so
received and paid.
§ 3322. Fees of a justice of the peace. A justice of the peace is
entitled, for the services specified in this section, to the following fees :
1. In an action brought before a justice of the peace.
For a summons, twenty-five cents.
For an order of arrest, twenty-five cents.
For a warrant of attachment, twenty-five cents.
For a requisition in an action for a chattel, twenty-five cents.
For a subpoena, including all the names inserted therein, twenty-five cents.
For the acknowledgment of a power of attorney, twenty-five cents.
For taking an affidavit, or administering an oath, ten cents.
For drawing an affidavit, application, or notice, required by statute, five
cents for each folio.
For drawing a bond or an undertaking, twenty-five cents.
For hearing an application for a commission to examine one or more wit
nesses, fifty cents.
For an order for such a commission, and attending, settling, and certify
ing interrogatories, fifty cents.
For hearing an application to discharge a defendant from arrest, or to
vacate or modify a warrant of attachment, or increase the plaintifff's security
thereupon, fifty cents.
For an adjournment, except where it is made by the justice upon his own
motion, twenty-five cents.
For a venire, twenty-five cents.
For empanelling and swearing a jury, twenty-five cents.
For hearing the plaintifff's evidence, where the defendant does not appear,
twenty-five cents.
For the trial of a demurrer, twenty-five cents.
For the trial of an issue of fact, where the defendant appears, seventyfive cents.
For receiving and entering the verdict of a jury, twenty-five cents.
For entering judgment, twenty-five cents.
For filing each paper required by statute to be filed, five cents.
For a transcript of a judgment, twenty-five cents.
For a copy of any paper for which a fee is not expressly prescribed ky
law, six cents for each folio.
For an execution or the renewal of an execution, twenty-five cents.
For making a return upon an appeal from a judgment, two dollars.
For an order directing an action or a special proceeding to be continued
before another justice, twenty-five cents.
For services when associated with another justice, in any case where a fee
therefore is not expressly prescribed by law, for each day actually spent, two
dollars.
2. In a Bpecial proceeding, or an action not brought before a justice of the
peace.
For a warrant, in a case where a fee therefore is not expressly prescribed by
law, twenty-five cents.
For a warrant for the apprehension of a person charged with being the
father of a bastard, fifty cents ; for indorsing a warrant, issued from another
county, twenty-five cents.
For services when associated with another justice, in any case where a fee
therefore is not expressly prescribed by law, for each day actually spent, two
dollars
For a precept or other mandate, whereby a special proceeding is com
menced, in a case where a fee therefore is not specially prescribed by law,
twenty-five cents.
For a view of real property, in a case where it is required by law, fifty
cents.
For a warrant of attachment to arrest a delinquent juror or witness,
twenty-five cents.
For drawing, signing, and depositing with the clerk, a minute or record of
conviction of such a juror or witness, or of any person for contempt, in any
case where a fee therefore is not specially prescribed by law, fifty cents.
For an execution upon such a conviction before him, twenty-five cents.
For drawing, copying, and certifying a bond, an undertaking, a recogni
zance or other written security, and filing the same with the county clerk, or
other officer with whom it must be filed, twenty-five cents.
For a warrant of commitment for any cause, twenty-five cents.
For a subpoena, including all the names inserted therein, twenty-five
cents.
For a precept to notify a jury, fifty cents.
For empanelling and swearing a jury, twenty-five cents; except in pro
ceedings to alter or lay out a highway, in which case he is entitled to two
dollars
For hearing the matter, concerning which a jury is called, fifty cents.
For receiving and entering the verdict of the jury, and the order, if any,
thereupon, twenty-five cents.
For any service for which a fee is not expressly allowed by this subdi
vision, and for which; if rendered in an action before a justice, a fee is
allowed by the first subdivision of this section, the fee allowed in such an
action for the same service.
For taking the deposition of a witness, upon an order made, or commission
issued, by a court of record of the State, or a court in another State or a
territory, or a foteign country, ten cents for each folio.
For making the necessary return and certificate thereto, fifty cents.
For taking an affidavit or administering an oath, ten cents.
§ 3323. Constable's feea A constable is entitled, for the services speci
fied in this section, to the following fees :
1. In an action brought before a justice of the peace, or in a justice's court
of a city.
For serving a summons, twenty-five cents.
For serving a summons and executing an order of arrest, one dollar.
For serving a summons and levying a warrant of attachment, one dollar.
For serving a summons and affidavit, and executing a requisition, in an
action for a chattel, one dollar.
For serving an order, directing the action to be continued before a justice,
other than the one before whom it is pending, and for attending before the
latter, fifty cents, and fifty cents in addition if he so attends with a person
in his custody.
For collecting money by virtue of an execution, for every dollar collected,
to the amount of fifty dollars, five cents ; for every dollar collected over fifty
dollars, two and one-half cents. Where a judgment or an execution is settled
after a levy, the constable is entitled to poundage upon the sum at which the
settlement is made, not exceeding the value of the property levied upon.
For each mile necessarily traveled, going and returning, to serve a sum
mons or to serve or execute any other mandate, except a venire, the distance
to be computed from the place of abode of the person served, or the place
where it is served, to the place where it is returnable, ten cents ; but where
two or more mandates in one action are served or executed upon one journey,
or where a mandate is served upon or executed against two or more persona
in one action, he is entitled, in all, to only ten cents for each mile necessarily
traveled.
For notifying the plaintifff of the execution of an order of arrest, twentyfive cents; and for going to the plaintifff's residence, or, if he is found else
where, to the place where he is found, to serve such a notice, for each mile
traveled, going and returning, ten cents.
For subpoenaing each witness, not exceeding four, twenty-five cents.
For notifying the jurors to attend a trial, seventy-five cents.
For taking charge of a jury during their deliberations, fifty cents.
Where witnesses, not exceeding four, are subpoenaed by any person other
than a constable, the fee therefore is ten cents each.
2. In a special proceeding.
For notifying jurors to attend to assess damages, in proceedings relating
to highways, two dollars.
For notifying jurors to attend in any other case, unless a fee therefore is
specially prescribed by law, for each person notified, ten cents ; and for each
mile actually and necessarily traveled, going from and returning to his place
of residence, ten cents.
For serving a precept or other mandate, by which the special proceeding is
commenced, twenty-five cents.
For serving a warrant, in any case where a fee therefore is not specially
prescribed by law, fifty cents.
For serving an order, directing the special proceeding to be continued
before a justice other than the one before whom it is pending, and for attend
ing before the latter, fifty cents, and fifty cents in addition if he so attends
with a person in his custody.
For arresting and committing any person, pursuant to process, one dollar.
For subpoenaing each witness, not exceeding four, twenty-five cents.
For each mile necessarily traveled, going and returning, to serve or
execute a mandate, the distance to be computed from the place where it is
served or executed, to the place where it is returnable, unless a different
rate of travel fees upon the service or execution thereof is specially prescribed
by statute, ten cents. Where two or more mandates are served or executed
in one special proceeding, the limitation upon the amount of travel fees
specified in the last preceding subdivision applies.
§ 3324. Id. ; affidavit upon claim for travel fees. A constable, who
charges any traveling fees, must show, by affidavit, that the travel was
necessary to perform the service with respect to which it is charged ; that
no more miles are charged for, than were actually and in good faith traveled
for that purpose ; that he had at the time no other official or private business
upon the route so traveled ; and that the traveling fees are charged upon
one mandate only, which must be attached to or described in the affidavit.
The justice taxing the fees must be satisfied that the miles charged for were
actually and necessarily traveled as stated in the affidavit.
§ 3325. Justice's court, fees upon a commission. A party recovering
costs in an action before a justice of the peace, in whose behalf a commission
has been issued, and who introduces in evidence a deposition taken there
under, is entitled to recover his actual disbursements thereupon, not exceed
ing the following sums : commissioner's fees for taking and returning testi
mony, one dollar ; each subpoena issued, or oath administered, by the com
missioner, six cents; expense of serving each subpoena, twenty-five cents;
each witness's fees for each day's attendance before the commissioner,
twenty-five cents ; postage for sending and returning the commission and
papers annexed thereto, one dollar.
§ 3326. Id ; jurors' fees. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by
law, a person, notified to attend as a juror, is entitled to twenty-five cents,
for attending and serving, upon the trial of an action or the hearing of a
special proceedings, before a justice of the peace ; and to ten cents for attend
ing to serve, where he is not sworn.
§ 3327. Id ; witnesses' fees. A witness is entitled to twenty-five cents,
for each day's actual attendance, before a justice of the peace, in an action
or a special proceeding, or before a commissioner appointed by a justice of
the peace, or before a justice of the peace taking a deposition to be used in
a court, not of record, of another State, or a territory of the United States.
§ 3328. Id ; fees to be paid before services rendered A justice of
the peace or a constable, juror, or witness, before a justice of the peace, is
not obliged to render any service specified in this title, without the previous
payment or tender of his fee therefore.
§ 3329. Id ; by whom fees to be paid In an action before a justice
of the peace, if any services are rendered for a party, and he neglects to
pay the fees allowed therefore by law, the other party may pay those fees,
and the amount thereof must be taxed as part of his costs, if he recovers costs.
§3330. Certain special provisions excepted from this title. The allow
ance of a fee, by this title, does not apply to a case, where special provision
is otherwise made by statute for compensation for a particular service.
§ 3331. Provision as to change in feea Where an officer has, when his
title takes effect, commenced the performance of a service, for which a fee
is allowed by the statutes heretofore in force, he is entitled to the fee so
allowed, for the completion of that service, and lie is not entitled to the fee
for the same, or a corresponding service, allowed by this title,
§ 3332. This title applies to civil cases only. Except as otherwise
expressly prescribed therein, this title does not apply to a service rendered
in a criminal action or special proceeding, in a court, or before an officer.
§ 3333. Definition of " action." The word " action," as used in the
New Revision of the Statutes, when applied to judicial proceedings, signifies
an ordinary prosecution, in a court of justice, by a party against another
party, for the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention
of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.
§ 3334. Id. ; " special proceeding." Every other prosecution by a
party, for either of the purposes specified in the last section, is a special
proceeding.
§ 3335. Division of actions into civil and criminal. Actions are of
two kinds :
1. Civil.
2. Criminal.
§ 3336. Definition of " criminal action." A criminal action is prose
cuted by the people of the State, as a party, against a person charged with
a public offense, for the punishment thereof.
§ 3337. Id ; " civil action."

Every other action is a civil action.

§ 3338. Parties to a civil action. The party prosecuting a civil action
is styled the plaintifff; the adverse party is styled the defendant.
§ 3339. Only one form of civil action. There is only one form of civil
action. The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and the
forms of those actions and suits, have been abolished.
§ 3340. Rule of construction as to publication, etc., in certain cases.
Each provision of this act, requiring the publication of a summons, notice,
or other paper, in one or more newspapers, or authorizing or requiring a
court, or a judge, to designate one or more newspapers, in which such a
publication must be made, or requiring the posting of a notice or other paper,
is to be construed as not affecting any special provision of the statutes,
remaining unrepealed after the former provision takes effect, prescribing
one or more particular newspapers, in which such a publication must or may
be made, or one or more particular places, in which notices or other legal
papers must or may be posted, in a particular locality, or in a particular case.
§ 3341. Id. ; as to certain special provisions relating to New York
city. Each provision of this act is to be construed as not affecting any
special provision of the statutes, remaining unrepealed after the former pro
vision takes effect, which is applicable exclusively to an action against the
mayor, aldermen, and commonalty of the city of New York, including the
recovery, entry, and collection of a judgment in such an action.
§ 3342. Id. ; as to county court. Each provision of this act, conferring
power upon, or authorizing a proceeding to be taken at, a general, special,
or trial term, which is applicable to a county court, is to be construed as
applying to any term of the county court, held pursuant to an appointment
made as prescribed by law. J
§ 3343. Miscellaneous general definitions and rules of construction.
In construing this act, the following rules must be observed, except where a
contrary intent is expressly declared in the provision to be construed, or
plainly apparent from the context thereof :
1. The "superior city courts" are, collectively, the court of common pleas
for the city and county of New York, the superior court of the city of New
York, the superior court of Buffalo, and the city court of Brooklyn.
2. The word, " mandate," includes a writ, process, or other written direc
tion, issued pursuant to law, out of a court, or made pursuant to law, by a
court, or a judge, or a person acting as a judicial officer, and commanding a
court, board, or other body, or an officer, or other person, named or other
wise designated therein, to do, or to refrain from doing, an act therein
specified.
3. The word, "judge," includes a justice, surrogate, recorder, justice of
the peace, or other judicial officer, authorized or required to act, or prohib
ited from acting, in or with respect to the matter or thing, referred to in the
provision wherein that word is used.
4. The word, " clerk," signifies the clerk of the court, wherein the action
or special proceeding is brought, or wherein, or by whose authority, the act
is to be done, which is referred to in the provision in which it is used. If
the action or special proceeding is brought, or the act is to be done, in or by
the authority of the supreme court, it signifies the clerk of the county
wherein the action or special proceeding is triable, or the act is to be done.
5. The word, " report," when used in connection with a trial, or other
inquiry, or a judgment, means a referee's report ; and the word, " decision,"
when used in the same connection, means the decision of the court upon a
hearing, or the trial of an issue, before the court, without a jury.
6. The words, " real property," are co-extensive with lands, tenements,
and hereditaments.
7. The words, " personal property," include money, chattels, things in
action, and evidences of debt. The word, " chattel," is co-extensive with
goods and chattels.
8. The word, " property," includes real and personal property.
9. A "personal injury" includes libel, slander, criminal conversation,
seduction, and malicious prosecution ; also an assault, battery, false impris
onment, or other actionable injury to the person either of the plaintifff, or of
another.
10. An " injury to property " is an actionable act, whereby the estate of
another is lessened, other than a personal injury, or the breach of a contract.
11. The word, " affidavit," includes a verified pleading in an action, or a
verified petition or answer in a special proceeding.
12. A warrant of attachment against property is said to be " annulled,"
when the action, in which it was granted, abates or is discontinued ; or a
final judgment, rendered therein in favor of the plaintifff, is fully paid ; or
a final judgment is rendered therein in favor of the defendant. But, in the
case last specified, a stay of proceedings suspends the effect of the annul
ment, and the reversal or vacating of the judgment revives the warrant.
13. The term, " judgment creditor," signifies the person who is entitled
to collect, or otherwise enforce, in his own right,, a judgment for a sum of
money, or directing the payment of a sum of money.
14. A " judgment creditor's action " is an action brought as prescribed in
article first of title fourth of chapter sixteenth of this act, or any other action,
brought by a judgment creditor to aid the collection of a judgment for a sum
of money, 'or directing the payment of a sum of money.
15. The words, " lunacy," and " lunatic," embrace every description of
unsoundness of mind, except idiocy.
16. A " distinct parcel " of real property is a part of the property, which
is or may be set off by boundary lines, as distinguished from an undivided
share or interest therein.
17. The word, " territory," when applied to a portion of the United States,
without the State, includes the District of Columbia.
18. A "domestic corporation" is a corporation created by or under the
laws of the State ; or located in the State, and created by or under the laws
of the United States, or by or pursuant to the laws, in force in the colony of
New York, before the 19th day of April, in the year 1775. Every other
corporation is a " foreign corporation."
19. The terms, " trial juror," and " trial jury," are respectively equivalent
to the terms, "petit juror," and " petit jury," as used in the constitution and
laws of the State. The word, " notify," as used, with respect to procuring
the attendance of a juror, is equivalent to the word, " summon," as used in
the like connection, in the same constitution and laws.
20. The word, " action," refers to a civil action ; the word, "judgment,"
to a judgment in such an action ; the term, " special proceeding," to a civil
special proceeding ; the word, " order," to an order made in such an action
or special proceeding; the words, " an action of ejectment" to an action to
recover the immediate possession of real property.
21. The term, " public holiday," includes each of the following days,
to wit : the first day of January ; the twenty-second day of February ; the
thirtieth day of May ; the fourth day of July ; the twenty-fifth day of
December ; unless either of those days falls upon Sunday, and, in that case,
the next day thereafter ; also each general election day ; and each day,
appointed by the President of the United States or the Governor of the
State, as a day of general thanksgiving, general fasting and prayer, or
other general religious observance.
22. Each of the words, " now," " heretofore," and " hereafter," refers to
the time when the provision containing it takes effect.
23. Where an instrument, specified in this act, is described as, or expressly
required to be, written or printed, it may be partly written and partly
printed.
24. The word, " folio," signifies one hundred words, counting as a word
each figure necessarily employed.
§ 3344. Short title of this act This act constitutes a portion of the
New Revision of the Statutes. It may be styled, in any act of the Legisla
ture or proceeding in a court of justice, or wherever it is otherwise referred
to, " The Code of Civil Procedure."
§ 3345. Rule of strict construction not applicable thereto. The rule
of the common law, that a statute in derogation of the common law is strictly
construed, does not apply to this act.
§ 3346. Punishment of crimes and misdemeanors created thereby.
Where it is prescribed, in a provision of this act, that a person doing or
omitting to do any act is guilty of a particular crime, or, generally, of a
misdemeanor, he shall be punished therefore in the manner and to the
extent, prescribed by the statutes remaining unrepealed after the provision
in question takes effect, for the punishment of the crime so specified ; or for
the punishment of a misdemeanor, the punishment of which is not specially
prescribed in the statute defining it.
§ 3347. Application of certain portions thereof, regulated and quali
fied. The application and effect of certain portions of this act are declared
and regulated as follows ; except that, where a particular provision, included
within a chapter or a portion of a chapter, specified in a subdivision of this
section, expressly designates the courts, persons, or proceedings, affected
thereby, that provision is deemed excluded from the application and effect,
prescribed in the subdivision.
1. In chapter second, the prisoners referred to are civil prisoners only,
except that section 122, and article third of title second thereof, apply to all
prisoners, civil or criminal.
2. In chapter third, sections 303, 304, 305, and 306 apply to trial jurors
upon the trial of an indictment or other criminal cause ; as prescribed in
subdivision seventh of this section, with respect to the application of titles
third and fourth of chapter tenth, and as specified in the next two sections.
3. In chapter fifth, sections 446, 449, 450, 454, 455, aud 458 to 468, both
inclusive, apply to an action commenced, in any court of the State on or
after the first day of September, 1877.
4. The remainder of chapter fifth, and the whole of chapter sixth, apply
only to an action commenced, on or after the first day September, 1877,
in the supreme court, a superior city court, the marine court of the city of
New York, or a county court.
5. Chapter seventh, excluding section 548, and articles first and second of
title fourth thereof, applies only to an action, in one of the courts specified
in subdivision fourth of this section, in which an application for an order
of arrest, an injunction order, or a warrant of attachment against property,
is made, on or after the first day of September, 1877. Articles first and second
of title fourth of that chapter apply only to proceedings taken in one of those
courts, on or after that date.
6. Chapter eighth applies only to the proceedings taken on or after the
first day of September, 1877, in an action or special proceeding in one of the
courts specified in subdivision fourth of this section ; except that sections
721, 722, 724 to 727, both inclusive, and 817 to 819, both inclusive, apply to
all courts of record ; sections 728, 729, 730, 749, 787, 788, 810 to 816, both
inclusive, and 826, to proceedings, taken, on or after that day, in any court
or before any officer or body; and sections 723, 764, 765, seven hundred and
eighty-five, 789, 790, and 825, to all courts. [Am'd Ch. 399 of 1882.J
7. In chapter tenth, titles, first, second, and sixth, and article second of
title fifth, apply only to proceedings taken, on or after the first day of Sep
tember, 1877, in one of the courts specified in subdivision fourth of this section.
Titles third and fourth, and article first of title fifth, of that chapter apply
only to j urors drawn for, and j uries formed at, a term of a court, commencing
not less than twenty days after the first day of May, 1877. Subject to that
qualification, they apply to jurors selected under the statutes, remaining
unrepealed after that day, and the lists and ballots prepared accordingly ;
until new jurors are selected, and new lists and ballots are prepared, as
prescribed in those titles. The same portions of chapter tenth, excluding
article third of title third, apply equally to a criminal and a civil action or
special proceeding, and to a court of criminal and a court of civil jurisdiction.
But title third does not affect any special provision of law, remaining unre
pealed after the first day of May, 1877, whereby trial jurors are directed to
be procured, for a particular court of record, from a particular locality ; or
whereby a county is divided into two or more jury districts, and the select
ing, drawing, summoning, or attendance of jurors from the particular
locality, or the different jury districts, is regulated. Each of those provi
sions becomes applicable to and effects the selecting, drawing, notifying, or
attendance of jurors, as prescribed in that title, in like manner as it applied
to and affected the statutes previously in force, upon the same subject. So
much of the provisions of title fourth, as relates to the remission or enforcement
of a fine imposed upon a trial juror, applies to a fine imposed upon a grand
juror, as prescribed in the statutes remaining unrepealed, after the first day
of May, 1877.
8. In chapter eleventh, articles firsts and second of title first, and the
whole of title third, apply only to proceedings in one of the courts specified
in subdivision fourth of this section, taken on or after the first day of Sep
tember, 1877. But where an action has been commenced in either of those
courts, before that date, a judgment by default must be taken therein, as
prescribed by the statutes in force on the thirty-first day of August, 1877.
9. Chapter twelfth does not affect the statutes remaining unrepealed after
the first day of September, 1877, touching the review of proceedings in a
criminal cause.
10. Chapter thirteenth applies only to an execution issued, on or alter the
first day of September, 1877, out of a court of record, other than an execu
tion issued out of such a court, and directed, pursuant to law to a constable
or marshal ; and to sales and other proceedings, by virtue of an execution
directed to a sheriff, and delivered to him, after that date. Sections 1413
and 1414, and sections 1417 to 1427, both inclusive, apply only to a case
where such an execution is issued out of one of the courts specified in sub
division fourth of this section ; or where a warrant of attachment against
property is granted on or after that date, in an action brought in one of
those courts. Title third of that chapter applies only to an execution issued
upon a judgment rendered in one of those courts.
11. So much of chapters fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth,
eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth, as regulate the proceedings to be
taken in an action or special proceeding, and the effect thereof applies only
to an action or a special proceeding commenced on or after the first day of
September, 1880. And all appeals taken from any order, sentence, decree, or
determination of a surrogate's court, made or entered in such court, on or
after the first day of September, 1880, in . any matter or proceeding pending
or undetermined in such court on the first day of September, 1880, and all
appeals to the court of appeals from any order or judgment of the supreme court,
affirming, reversing or modifying any such order, sentence, decree or determination
of a surrogate's court, shall bo taken and perfected, heard and decided in con
formity to the laws and practice regulating appeals from orders, sentences
and decrees of surrogates court, and the hearing and decision thereof in force in
this State on the thirtieth day of April, 1877; and all appeals from any order,
sentence, decree on- determination of such court brought in conformity tlwreto
since the first of September, 1880, are hereby declared to be valid and effec
tual, except that sections 1670 to 1685, both inclusive, apply also to the pro
ceedings therein specified, taken, after that date, in an action theretofore
commenced, or upon a judgment theretofore rendered, and section 1674
applies to a notice of pendency of action theretofore or thereafter filed ; sec
tions 1880 to 1892, both inclusive, do not apply to an action upon any bond
therein specified, where an order, allowing any person to prosecute the bond
in the name of the people, has been duly made before that date and is then
in force, in which case future actions upon the same bond are regulated by
the laws in force on the day before that date, notwithstanding the repeal
thereof; sections 2181 to 2187, both inclusive, 2197 to 2199, both inclusive,
and 2213 to 2218, both inclusive, apply also to a case where a discharge is
thereafter granted, and sections 2228 to 2230, both inclusive, apply also to
trustees theretofore or thereafter appointed in proceedings taken under any
statute superseded by the title containing those sections ; sections 2253 to
2265, both inclusive, apply also where a final determination has been made
before the first day of September, 1880, in proceedings taken under any
statute superseded by the title containing those sections, and to the process
issued thereupon ; sections 2320 to 2344, both inclusive, apply also to pro
ceedings taken before that date under any statute superseded by the title
containing them, whether a committee has or has not been appointed;
section 2537 applies also to every m payment or deposit therein specified,
made on or after the first day of 'September, 1880 ; and sections 2798 to
2801, both inclusive, apply also to a case, where a decree for the sale or other
disposition of the real property of a decedent has been duly made, before
that date, in a surrogate's court. [Am'd Chs. 681 op 1881, and 229 op 1S83.]
12. So much of chapters nineteenth and twentieth, as relates to the jur
isdiction of the several courts therein specified, applies only to an action or
special proceeding commenced on or after the first day of September, 18S0.
13. In chapter twenty-first, titles first, second, and third apply only to
an action in one of the courts specified in subdivision fourth of this section
§ 3348. Id. ; what deemed commencement of action, etc. Where a
provision of this act is made applicable by the last section, to an action or a
special proceeding commenced on or after a day therein specified, if, before
that date, a summons in an action, or a citation issued from a surrogate's
court, has been served upon one or more, but not upon all, of the persons to
be served ; or an order for the service of a summons as prescribed in article
second of title first of chapter fifth of this act has been made ; or, in a
special proceeding, elsewhere than in a surrogate's court, the petition or
other paper, upon which the first order, process, or other mandate may be
special proceeding is
not deemed to have been commenced within the meaning of that section.
§ 3349. Id. ; when proceedings to be under former statutes. Where
any provision of this act is made applicable to future proceedings in an
action or special proceeding, the proceedings therein, until the provision in
question becomes applicable, are governed by, and must be conducted
according to the laws in force on the day before the provision takes effect,
except as otherwise prescribed in subdivision seventh of the last section but
one.
§ 3350. Effect of this act, upon trial jurors and juries, in criminal
causes. A jury, for the trial of an indictment or other criminal cause, at a
terra of a court of record, commencing on or after the twenty-first day of
May, 1877, must be procured from the trial jurors selected, drawn, and
notified, as prescribed in this act, for the term of the court at which it is
triable, including the talesmen or additional jurors, procured as prescribed
therein; and the same must be tried by the jury so formed. But the stat
utes remaining unrepealed after the first day of September, 1877, relating
to challenges or disqualifications of petit jurors in a criminal cause or pre
scribing the cases where talesmen or additional petit jurors must be sum
moned in a criminal cause, remain unaffected by this act, and are appli
cable to the proceedings taken as prescribed in this act, and to the trial
jurors therein specified.
§ 3351. Id. ; upon grand jurors and juries This act does not affect
any provision of the statutes, remaining unrepealed after the first day of
September, 1877, relating to grand jurors or grand juries ; except as follows :
1. A fine imposed, after the first day of September, 1877, upon a person
drawn as a grand juror, and duly summoned to attend a term of a court of
record as a grand juror, as prescribed in those statutes, must be imposed as
prescribed in article fourth of title third of chapter tenth of this act ; and sec
tions 1073 to 1077 of this act, both inclusive, apply to such a person, as if he
had been drawn, and notified to attend, as a trial juror.
2. Where a provision of those statutes refers to the lists of petit jurors, the
ballots containing their names, the box or boxes in which those ballots are
deposited or contained, the selecting, drawing, summoning, or empanelling
of petit jurors, the imposition of a fine upon a petit juror, or the enforcement,
reduction, or remission thereof, it is deemed to refer to the same subject, as
provided for in this act, in like manner as it refers to those statutes.
§ 3352. Id. ; upon proceedings taken, or rights accrued, etc., under
former statutes. Nothing contained in any provision of this act, other
than in chapter fourth, renders ineffectual, or otherwise impairs, any pro
ceeding in an action or a special proceeding, had or taken, pursuant to law,
or any other lawful act done, or right, defense, or limitation, lawfully accrued
or established, before the provision in question takes effect ; unless the con
trary is expressly declared in the provision in question. As far as it may
be necessary, for the purpose of avoiding such a result, or carrying into effect
such a proceeding or other act, or enforcing or protecting such a right, defense,
or limitation, the statutes in force on the day before the provision takes
effect, are deemed to remain in force, notwithstanding the repeal thereof.
§ 3353. Id. ; upon former appointment of terms. This act does not
affect the appointment of a term, or the designation of one or more judges
to hold a term, made pursuant to the statutes in force on the thirty-first day
of August, 1877, until new terms are appointed, or one or more judges are
newly designated, as prescribed in this act.
§ 3354. Id. ; upon officers and offices. This act does not create a
vacancy in any office or employment, designated or referred to therein, by
the title or description thereof, contained in the statutes in force on the day
before the provision referring thereto takes effect, or by another title or des
cription ; nor does it affect any provision of those statutes, relating to the
amount, or the time or the mode of payment, of the compensation of an officer
or employee, so designated or referred to, who is in office or employed on
that day : except that where the tenure of his office or employment is not
prescribed in this act, he may be removed at pleasure by the court, officer,
or officers, authorized by this act to appoint a person to discharge the same
duties. Until he is removed, or his office or place becomes otherwise vacant,
the provisions of this act apply to him, and to the discharge of his duties.
The court, officer, or officers, authorized by this act to appoint a person to an
office or employment, may from time to time fill a vacancy therein.
§ 3355. When this act deemed to have been passed, etc. For the
purpose of determining the effect of the different provisions of this act with
respect to each other, they are deemed to have been enacted simultaneously.
For the purpose of determining the effect of this act upon other acts, and
the effect of other acts upon this act, chapters fourteen to twenty-two of this act,
both inclusive, are deemed to have been enacted on the twelfth day of January,
in the year eighteen hundred and eighty; and. all acts passed after the lastmentioned date are to have the same effect as if they were passed after those chap
ters. [Am'd Ch. 399 of 1882.]
§ 3356. When this act takes effect. Subject to the qualifications con
tained in the foregoing sections of this title, this act shall take effect as fol
lows : titles third and fourth, and article first of title fifth of chapter tenth,
on the first day of May, in the year 1877 ; the remainder of chapters first to
thirteenth, both inclusive, on the first day of September, in the year 1877 ;
chapters fourteenth to twenty-first, both inclusive, on the first day of Sep
tember, 1880 ; and this chapter immediately.
AN ACT explaining, defining and regulating the effect and
application of, and otherwise relating to, the act passed at this
session of the Legislature, entitled " An act relating to courts,
officers of justice, and civil proceedings."
Passed June 2, 1876 j three-fifths being present.
The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly, do
enact as follows;
Section 1. Code of Remedial Justice. The act, passed at this session
of the Legislature, entitled "An act relating to courts, officers of justice,
and civil proceedings," constitutes a portion of the new revision of the
statutes ; and may be styled, in any act of the Legislature, or proceeding
in a court of justice, or whenever it is otherwise referred to, as " The Code
of Remedial Justice."
§ 2. Constitution. In construing that act. the following rules must be
observed, except where a contrary intent is expressly declared in the pro
vision to be construed, or plainly apparent from the context thereof:
1. "Superior city courts." The "superior city courts" are, collectively,
the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York, the supe
rior court of the city of New York, the superior court of Buffalo, and the
city court of Brooklyn.
2. "Mandate." The word, "mandate," includes a writ, process, or other
written direction issued pursuant to law, out of a court, or made pursuant
to law, by a court, or a judge thereof, or by a person acting as a judicial
officer, and commanding a court, board or other body, or an officer, or other
Serson, named or otherwise designated therein, to do, or to refrain from
oing, an act therein specified.
3. "Judge." The word, "judge," includes a justice, surrogate, recorder
or other judicial officer, authorized or required to act, or prohibited from
acting in the matter or thing referred to, in the provision in which that
word is used.
4. " Clerk." The word, " clerk," signifies the clerk of the court, wherein
the action or special proceeding is brought, or wherein, or by whose author
ity, the act is to be done, which is referred to in the provision in which it is
used. If the action or special proceeding is brought., or the act is to be done,
in or by the authority of the supreme court, it signifies the clerk of the
county where the action or special proceeding is triable, or the act is to be
done.
5. " Report." The word, " report," when used in connection with a trial,
or other inquiry, or a judgment, means a referee's report ; and the word,
" decision," when used in the same connection, means the decision of the
court upon a hearing, or the trial of an issue, before the court, without a
jury.
6. "Action of ejectment." An "action of ejectment »» is an action to
recover the possession of some specific real property.
7. "Judgment creditor's action." A "judgment creditor's action" is
an action brought by a judgment creditor, pursuant to tbe provisions of sec
tions thirty-eight and thirty-nine of title two of chapter one of part three of
the Revised Statutes, or otherwise to aid in the collection of a judgment for
a sum of money, or directing the payment of a sum of money.
8. " Personal injury." A "personal injury " includes libel, slander, crim
inal conversation, seduction, and malicious prosecution ; also, an assault, bat
tery, false imprisonment, or other actionable injury to the person of the
plaintifff, or his or her wife, husband, child, or servant.
9. "Injury to property." An " injury to property " is an actionable act,
whereby the estate of another is lessened, other than a personal injury, or
the breach of a contract.
10. "Requisition to replevy." Personal property taken by a sheriff, in
an action to recover the possession thereof, pursuant to the plaintifff's claim
of the immediate delivery thereof, is said to be " replevied ; " and the
indorsement in writing, upon the affidavit, in behalf of the plaintiffT, requir
ing the sheriff to take the property from the defendant, and deliver it to the
plaintifff, is styled " a requisition to replevy." Such a requisition is deemed
io be the mandate of the court, in which the action is brought.
11. Annulment of a warrant of attachment A warrant of attachment
is said to be annulled when the action, in which it was granted, abates or is
discontinued ; or a final judgment rendered therein in favor of the plaintifff,
is fully paid ; or a final judgment is rendered therein in favor of the defend
ant. But, in the latter
stay of proceedings suspends the effect of the
annulment, the reversal or vacating of the judgment revives the warrant.
12. "Judgment creditor." The term "judgment creditor," signihes the
person who is entitled to collect, or otherwise enforce, for his own immediate
benefit, a judgment for a sum of money or directing the payment of a sum
of money.
13. "Lunatic." The words, "lunacy," and "lunatic," embrace every
description of unsoundness of mind, except idiocy.
14. " Distinct parcel." A " distinct parcel " of real property is a part of
the property, which is or may be set off by boundary lines, as distinguished
from an uncertain or undivided share or interest therein.
15. "Territory." The word, "territory," when applied to a portion of
the United States, without the State, signifies a portion thereof where an
organized territorial government exists, and includes the District of Columbia.
16. "Domestic" and "foreign corporations." A "domestic corpora
tion " is a corporation created by or under Ihe laws of the State. A " foreign
corporation " is a corporation created by or under other laws.
17. "Action of dower." The term, "action for dower," includes all
proceedings, authorized by the existing laws, to be taken, by or in behalf of
a widow, for the admeasurement of her dower, or to recover the property
admeasured, or the rents and profits thereof.
§ 3. "Trial juror" and "trial jury." "Notify." The terms, "trial juror,"
and "trial jury," as used in that act, are respectively equivalent to the terms,
"petit juror," and "petit jury," heretofore used in the Constitution and laws
of the State. The word " notify " as used in that act, with respect to pro
curing the attendance of a juror, is equivalent to the word " summon," as
heretofore used in the like connection, in the same Constitution and laws.
§ 4. "Action." "Judgment" "Special proceeding." "Order." In
that act, and in this act, the word " action," refers to a civil action ; the
word "judgment," to a judgment in such an action ; the term " special pro
ceeding," to a civil special proceeding ; and the word " order " to an order
made in such an action or special proceeding ; except where a contrary intent
is expressly declared in the provision containing the word or term or plainly
apparent in the context thereof.
«.
§ 5. Application and effect of certain portions of the act. The appli
cation and effect of certain portions of that act are declared and regulated as
follows, except that where a particular provision, included within a chapter
or a portion of a chapter, specified in a subdivision of this section, expressly
specifies the courts, persons or proceedings, affected thereby, that provision
is to be deemed excluded from the application and effect, prescribed in the
subdivision.
1. Chapter second. In chapter second, the prisoners referred to are civil
prisoners only.
2. Chapter third. In chapter third, the provisions of the sections three
hundred and three, three hundred and four, three hundred and five and three
hundred and six, apply to trial jurors upon the trial of an indictment or
other criminal cause, as prescribed in subdivision seventh of this section, with
respect to the application of titles third and fourth of chapter tenth.
3. Chapter fifth. In chapter fifth, sections four hundred and fifty, four
hundred and fifty-four, four hundred and fifty-five and four hundred and
sixty-eight, apply to an action commenced, in any court of the State, on or
after the first day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven.
4. Chapters fifth and sixth. The remainder of chapter fifth, and the
whole of chapter sixth, apply only to an action commenced, on or after the
first day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, in the supreme court,
a superior city court, the marine court of the city of New York, or a county
court. If, before that date, in an action brought in either of those courts, a
summons has been served upon one or more of two or more defendants, or an
order for the service of a summons by publication has been made, chapters
fifth and sixth do not apply to that action.
5. Chapter seventh Chapter seventh, excluding section five hundred
and forty-eight, and article first of title fourth thereof, applies only to an
action in one of the courts specified in subdivision fourth of this section, in
which an application for an order of arrest, an injunction, or a warrant of
attachment, is made on or after the first day of May, eighteen hundred and
seventy-seven. Article first of title fourth of that chapter applies only to pro
ceedings taken, as therein prescribed, on or after that date.
6. Chapter eight. Chapter eight applies only to the proceedings taken,
on or after the first day of May eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, in an
action or special proceeding in one of the courts specified in subdivision
fourth of this section ; except that sections seven hundred and twenty-five,
seven hundred and twenty-six, and seven hundred and twenty-seven, apply
to all courts of record, sections seven hundred and twenty-eight, seven hun
dred and twenty-nine, and seven hundred and thirty, to proceedings in an
court or before any officer or body, and sections seven hundred and sixtyfour and seven hundred and sixty-five, to all courts.
7. Chapter tenth. In chapter tenth, titles first, second, fifth and sixth,
apply only to proceedings taken, on or after the first day of May, eighteen
hundred and seventy-seven, in one of the courts specified in subdivision fourth
of this section. Titles third and fourth of that chapter apply only to jurors
drawn for the term of a court commencing not less than twenty days after the
first day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, subject to that quali
fication, they apply to jurors selected under the existing laws, and the lists and
ballots prepared accordingly, until new jurors are selected, and new lists and
ballots are prepared, as prescribed in those titles. The same titles excluding
article third of title third, apply equally to a criminal and civil action or
special^proceeding, and to a court of criminal and of civil jurisdiction. A jury
for the trial of an indictment, or other criminal cause, at a term of a court of
record, commencing on or after the twenty-first day of May eighteen hun
dred and seventy-seven, must be procured from the trial jurors selected,
drawn and noticed, as prescribed in this act, and in those titles for the term
of the court at which it is triable, including the talesmen or additional jurors
procured as prescribed therein ; and the same must be tried by the jury so
formed, but the existing laws, relating to challenges or disqualifications of
petit jurors in a criminal cause, or prescribing the cases where talesmen or
additional petit jurors must be summoned in a criminal cause, remain unaf
fected by those titles, and are applicable to the proceedings taken as therein
prescribed, and to the trial jurors therein specified. Those titles do not affect
any provision of the existing laws, relating to gra::d jurors or grand juries;
except that where such a provision refers to the lists of petit jurors ; the
ballots containing their names, the box or boxes in which those ballots are
deposited or contained, the selecting, drawing, summoning, or empanelling
of petit jurors, the imposition of a fine upon a petit juror, or the enforcement,
reduction, or remission thereof, it is deemed to refer to the same subject, as
provided for in those titles, in like maimer as it refers to the existing laws
relating thereto. Title third does not affect any special provision of law
remaining in force after the first day of May, eighteen hundred and seventyseven, whereby trial jurors are directed to be procured, for a particular court
of record from a particular locality, or whereby a county is divided into two
or more jury districts, and the selecting, drawing, summoning, or attendance
of jurors from the particular locality, or the different jury districts is regu
lated ; but each of those provisions becomes applicable to and affects the
selecting, drawing, notifying, or attendance of jurors as prescribed in that
title, in like manner as it now applies to and affects the existing laws, upon
the same subject. So much of the provisions of title fourth, as relates to the
remission or enforcement of a fine imposed upon a trial juror, applies to a fine
imposed upon a grand juror, as prescribed in the existing laws.
8. Chapter eleventh. In chapter eleventh, articles first and second of
title first, and the whole of title third, apply only to proceedings in one of the
courts specified in subdivision fourth of this section, taken on or after the
first day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, but where an action
has been commenced in either of those courts, before that date, a judgment
by default must be taken therein, as prescribed by the existing laws.
9. Chapter twelfth. Chapter twelfth does not apply to an appeal from a
surrogate's court ; and does not affect the existing laws, touching the review
of proceedings in a criminal cause.
10. Chapter thirteenth. Chapter thirteenth applies only to an execution
issued on or after the first day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven,
out of a court of record, other than an execution issued out of such a court,
and directed, pursuant to law, to a constable or marshal ; and to sales and
other proceedings, by virtue of an execution directed to a sheriff, and deliv
ered to him, after that date. Sections one thousand four hundred and thir
teen and one thousand four hundred and fourteen, and sections one thousand
four hundred and seventeen to one thousand four hundred and twenty-seven,
both inclusive, apply only to a case where such an execution is issued out of
one of the courts specified in subdivision fourth of this section ; or where a
warrant of attachment has been granted in an action brought in one of those
courts. Title third of that chapter applies only to an execution issued upon
a judgment rendered in one of those courts.
§ 6. Qualifications. The application of that act, as prescribed in the last
preceding section of this act, is subject to the following qualifications :
1. Not to impair certain proceedings. That act does not render
ineffectual or otherwise impair any proceedings in an action or special pro
ceeding to which it applies, taken, pursuant to the existing laws, before the
first day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven ; and where any pro
vision contained in it would render ineffectual, or otherwise impair, such a
proceeding, the subsequent proceedings must be taken as prescribed in the
existing laws, as far as it is necessary, for the purpose of avoiding such a result.
2. Operates, in certain cases, as an amendment of the Code of
Procedure. With respect to an action or special proceeding, commenced
before the first day of Slay, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven ; or with
respect to any provision of the existing laws, remaining unrepealed after it
takes effect, whereby the proceedings in an action or special proceeding are
specially prescribed, or otherwise regulated ; or with respect to the costs,
fees, or expenses in an action or special proceeding ; it has the same effect
as if it was an act amending the Code of Procedure.
3. Proceedings at terms of county courts. Each provision of that act,
conferring power upon, or authorizing or requiring a proceeding to be taken
at a general, special or trial term, which is made, by the terms of this act.
applicable to a county court., is to be construed as applying to any term of the
county court, held pursuant to an appointment made as prescribed by law.
§ 7. Marine court of the city of New York. The application of that
act to the marine court of the city of New York is subject to the following
qualifications :
1. It does not confer upon the marine court, or a justice thereof, power to
grant an order of arrest, an injunction order, or a warrant of attachment, in
a case where the same cannot be granted under the existing laws ; or take
away the power of that court, or of a justice thereof, to grant such an order
or warrant, in a case where the same can be granted under the existing
laws; or otherwise affects the jurisdiction or power of that court, or a justice
thereof, under the existing laws, except so far as the latter are inconsistent
with, or superseded by, title fourth of chapter third of that act.
2. It does not affect the proceedings in that court in " marine causes," as
regulated by the existing laws.
3. It does not affect any provision of the existing laws, exclusively appli
cable to the proceedings in that court, prescribing or authorizing a justice of
the court to prescribe, the time within which an act must or may be done, or
must or may be required to be done.
4. It does not affect an appeal to or from the general term of that court.
5. It does not confer upon that court power to refer a cause or matter, in a
case where that power is not conferred upon it by the existing laws.
§ 8. Construction of certain provisions of existing laws. A provi
sion of the existing laws, relating to the proceedings in an action in a court,
other than one of those specified in subdivision fourth of section five of this
act, or to a special proceeding before any judge or other officer, which assimi
lates the proceeding, by general language, or by reference to another provi
sion of the existing laws, to a proceeding in the supreme court, or before a
justice thereof, or generally, to a proceeding in other courts of record, or
before a judge thereof, is to be construed, where the corresponding proceed
ing is prescribed and regulated in the act specified in section one of this
act, as referring to the provisions of the latter, prescribing and regulating
the same.
§ 9. Publication of a summons. Each provision of that act, requiring
the publication of a summons, notice, or other paper, in one or more news
papers, or authorizing or requiring a court, or a judge, to designate one or
more newspapers, in which such a publication must be made, is to be con
strued as not affecting any special provision of the existing laws, prescrib
ing one or more particular newspapers, in which such publication must be
made, in a particular locality or in a particular case.
§ 10. Actions against mayor, aldermen, etc., of the city of New
York. That act does not affect any provision of the existing laws, which is
applicable exclusively to an action against the mayor, aldermen and com
monalty of the city of New York, including the recovery, entry, or collection
of a judgment in such an action.
§ 11. " Security." Each provision of that act, requiring the plaintifff in
an action to give security, for the purpose of obtaining an order of arrest,
an injunction order, or a warrant of attachment, or as a condition of obtain
ing any other relief, or taking any proceeding in the action, or allowing the
court, or a judge, to require such security to be given, is to be construed as
excluding an action brought by the people of the State, or by a domestic
municipal corporation, or by a public officer, in behalf of the people, or of
such a corporation.
8 12. Transmission of papers. Each provision of that act, requiring a
judge, clerk, or other officer, to transmit a paper to another officer, for the
benefit of a particular person, is to be construed as requiring the transmis
sion only upon the request of the person so to be benefited, and upon pay
ment by him of the fees allowed by law therefore, if any, and of the fees
allowed by law, for a copy or certificate, connected therewith, together with
the reasonable expenses of the transmission.
§ 13. Appointment of terms and designation of judges. That act
does not affect the appointment of a term, or the designation of one or more
judges to hold a term, made, pursuant to the existing laws, until new terms
are appointed, or one or more judges are newly designated as prescribed in
that act.
§ 14. Officers and employees. It does not create a vacancy in any
office or employment, designated or referred to therein, by the title or de
scription thereof, contained in the existing laws, or by another title or descrip
tion ; nor does it affect the existing laws relating to the amount, or the time
or the mode of payment, of the compensation of an officer, or employee,
so designated or referred to, who is in office or employed when, it takes
effect ; except that where the tenure of his office or employment is not
prescribed in that act, he may be removed at pleasure by the court, officer,
or officers, authorized by its provisions to appoint a person to discharge the
same duties. Until he is removed, or his office or place becomes otherwise
vacant, the provisions of that act apply to him, and to the discharge of his
duties. The officers or employees, styled in section ninety-three of that act
" attendants," include those styled, in the existing laws, " officers ; " those
styled in section ninety-five "attendants and messengers," include those
styled, in the existing laws, " officers and attendants ; " those styled in
section two hundred and eighty-eight "special deputy clerks and other
assistants," include those styled, in the existing laws, "deputies" and
" clerks employed by the clerk," and all the clerks and other employees, in
the office of the clerk of the court of common pleas for the city and county
of New York, specified in section two of chapter six hundred and sixtyfour of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-nine, or actually employed,
pursuant to the existing laws, to do clerical duty in the office of the clerk of
that court, or the clerk of the superior court of the city of New York ; those
styled in section three hundred and nine " special deputy clerks and assist
ants in the clerk's office," include those styled in the existing laws, " depu
ties," of whom the deputy clerk of the city court of Brooklyn, specified in
section two hundred and eighty-four, is one ; those styled, in section three
hundred and twenty-eight of that act, " assistants," include those styled,
in the existing laws, " assistant clerks." This enumeration shall not be
construed to exclude, from the provisions of this section, any other officer or
employee, performing the duties of an office or employment, which is desig
nated or referred to in that act by a title or description other than that which
it bears in the existing laws.
§ 15. " TTxiBting laws." The term " existing laws," as used in this act'
designates the statutes of the State remaining unrepealed on the thirtieth
day of April, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven.
§ 16. Printing and publication of this act and "The Code of Reme
dial Justice." This act and the Code of Remedial Justice shall not be
printed orpublished for the use of the State, or of any State Department,
or State officer, or otherwise in any manner at the expense of the State,
except in the volumes containing the laws of this session to be printed and
published as prescribed by law ; they shall be printed in one volume, which
shall contain no other law passed at this session ; nor shall they be printed
or published in any newspaper at the expense of the State, or of any county.
All laws relating to printing, distributing or publishing any of the Statutes
of the State at the public expense, shall be deemed inapplicable to those
two acts, except as respects the printing, publication and distribution
thereof, in the volumes containing the laws of this session.
§ 17. This act shall take effect immediately.
CHAP. 318 OF 1877.
AN ACT to suspend the operation of parts of chapters four hun
dred and forty-eight and four hundred and forty-niue of the
laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-six, to continue in force
the laws superseded thereby, and to regulate proceeding in
civil actions.
Passbd May 22, 1877
The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly, do
enact as follows :
Section 1. The operation of all the provisions of chapters four hundred
and forty-eight and four hundred and forty-nine of the laws of eighteen
hundred and seventy-six, except sections three hundred and three to three
hundred and six, both inclusive, and sections one thousand and twentyseven to one thousand one hundred and eighty, both inclusive, of said chap
ter four hundred and forty-eight, and so much of subdivisions two and
seven, of section five of said chapter four hundred and forty-nine, as applies
to said sections, is hereby suspended until the first day of September,
eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, when the same shall again go into and
remain in full force and effect.
§ 2. Any summons actually issued in an action on or after the first day of
May, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, and before this act takes effect,
shall not be deemed invalidated or affected in any manner by the provisions
of this act, and the same may be served upon any of the defendants, and
judgment by default for want of appearance or answer may be taken as if
this act had not been passed ; or if the defendant answers, the proceedings
in the action to the service of the first pleading therein shall be the same as
if this act had not been passed.
§ 3. No proceeding in an action or a special proceeding, taken as prescribed
in chapter four hundred and forty-eight of the laws of eighteen hundred
and seventy-six, on or after the first day of May, eighteen hundred and
seventy-seven, and hefore this act takes effect, shall be invalidated or
impaired by this act, but the subsequent proceedings, except as otherwise
provided in the sections mentioned in section one of this act, or as otherwise
expressly prescribed in the last preceding section, shall conform, as nearly
as may be, to the provisions of law regulating proceedings in actions and
special proceedings as they existed on the thirtieth day of April, eighteen
hundred and seventy-seven, and the court shall, upon proper application,
allow, without costs, any amendment or other proceeding which may be
necessary for that purpose.
§ 4. All actions or special proceedings commenced after this act takes effect,
and all proceedings after this act takes effect in an action or special pro
ceeding commenced before this act takes effect, shall be conducted as pre
scribed by law for that purpose, in force on the thirtieth day of April,
eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, until the first day of September next,
except as otherwise prescribed in this act.
§ 5. Chapter four hundred and forty-nine of the laws of eighteen hundred
and seventy-six is hereby amended as follows :
1. In section five the words " the first day of May, eighteen hundred and
seventy-seven," are stricken out wherever they occur, and the words " the
first day of September, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven," are inserted
in place thereof, except that the words " the first day of May, eighteen hun
dred and seventy-seven," are retained in subdivision seven of that section,
so far as they apply to title third or title fourth, or article first of title fifth
of chapter ten of the said chapter four hundred and forty-eight of the laws
of eighteen hundred and seventy-six.
2. Iu section fifteen of the said act the words " the thirtieth day of April,
eighteen hundred and seventy-seven," are stricken out and the words " the
thirty-first day of August, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven," are substi
tuted in place thereof, except so far as they apply to title third or title fourth,
or article first of title fifth of chapter ten of the said chapter four hundred
and forty-eight of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-six.
§ 6. The provisions of laws which were in force on the thirtieth day of
April, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, and which were superseded in
whole or in part by the provisions of said chapters four hundred and fortyeight and four hundred and forty-nine of the laws of eighteen hundred and
seventy-six, except the provisions superseded by sections three hundred and
three to three hundred and six thereof, both inclusive, and sections one
thousand and twenty-seven to one thousand one hundred and eighty thereof,
both inclusive, shall be operative and continue in full force and effect until
the first day of September, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven.
§ 7. This act shall take effect immediately.
State of New Tobk,
)
Office of the Secretary of State. J
I have compared the preceding with the original law on file in this office, and do hereby
certify that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of said original
law.
John Bioelow,
Secretary of State.
CHAP. 416 of 1877.
AN ACT to amend chapter four hundred and forty-eight of the
laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-six, entitled "An act
relating to courts, officers of justice, and civil proceedings,"
and to provide for the publication of the act, as amended.
Passed May, 1877.
The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly, do
enact as follows :
Section 1. (The amendments adopted in this section appear in their proper
places in the Code.)
§ 2. The commissioners to revise the statutes are hereby authorized and
required, within sixty days after the final adjournment of this session of the
Legislature, to correct the text of the act entitled "An act relating to courts,
officers of justice, and civil proceedings," passed June two, eighteen hundred
and seventy-six, by incorporating therein the amendments made by this act,
so that the text will read as it is intended by this act that it shall read, and
by appending thereto any matters added thereto, by any act or acts supple
mental to chapter four hundred and forty-eight of the laws of eighteen
hundred and seventy-six, passed at this session of the Legislature. The
commissioners must make the amendments and corrections specified in this
act by causing the act, thus corrected and amended, to be written or printed
in a book, and depositing the book in the office of the Secretary of State, with,
a certificate thereupon, signed by the commissioners, or a majority of them,
to the effect that it contains the correct text of the Code of Civil Procedure,
as amended and completed by the acts of the Legislature, passed since its
enactment. The book so deposited shall be presumptive evidence of the
matter so certified. A copy thereof may be read in evidence, if it contains
a written or printed certificate of the Secretary of State, or of the commis
sioners to revise the statutes or a majority of them, to the effect that it is a
correct transcript of the Code of Civil Procedure, as amended and completed
by the acts of the Legislature, passed since its enactment.
§ 3. This act and any act or acts, passed at this session of the Legislature,
supplemental to chapter four hundred and forty-eight of the laws of eighteen
hundred and seventy-six, shall not be printed or published for the use of the
State or of any State department or State officer, or otherwise in any manner
at the expense of the State, except in the volumes containing the laws of
this session, to be printed and published as prescribed by law ; nor shall
they be printed or published in any newspaper at the expense of the State
or of any county. Any act or ac's, passed at this session of the Legislature,
supplemental to chapter four hundred and forty-eight of the laws of eighteen
hundred and seventy-six, and also the standard text of the Code of Civil Pro
cedure, prepared by the commissioners to revise the statutes, and deposit in
the office of the Secretary of State, as provided for by the last preceding sec
tion of this act, with the certificate of the said commissioners thereupon
shall be printed in a separate volume of the session laws, which shall contain
no other law passed at this session, and the said standard text of the Code of
Civil Procedure shall be separately indexed at the end of the said volume,
but the other act or acts in the said volume shall not be indexed,
§ 4. This act shall take effect on the first day of September, 1877.
AN ACT to repeal certain acts and parts of acts.
Passed June 5, 1877.
The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly, do
enact as follows :
Section 1. Acts repealed, etc. Revised Statutes. The following acts,
and parts of acts, heretofore passed by the Legislature of the State, are
hereby repealed, to wit :
1. Of the first part of the Revised Statutes :
Section* twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six and twenty-seven, of title
fourth of chapter fifth.
2. Of the second part of the Revised Statutes :
(1.) Section* five and six of title fifth of chapter first.
(2.) Sections sixteen, seventeen, and twenty-seven of chapter third.
(3.) The following portions of chapter fifth :
All of article first of title first :
The concluding portion of section seventeen of article sixth of the same
title, beginning with the words "but whenever any person shall have re
mained charged."
3. Of the third part of the Revised Statutes :
The following portions of chapter first :
of article third of title third.
All of title second, except sections thirty-eight, thirty-nine, forty-three
and forty-five, and article sixth and seventh of that title. " 1
All of title third.
Sections one to twenty-seven, both inclusive, and sections forty-five of title
fourth.
All of title fifth, except sections four, five, Bix, seven, twenty-one, twentyfour, twenty-five, twenty-seven, twenty-eight and twenty-nine thereof, and
except so much of sections eleven and fourteen thereof, as relates to criminal
courts.
*So In the original.
(2.) The following portions of chapter second :
Sections two hundred and forty-five, two hundred and forty-six, two hun
dred and forty-seven and two hundred and forty-eight of title fourth.
(3.) All of chapter third, except section fourteen of title first ; and sec
tions forty, forty-one, forty-four, forty-five and forty-eight, and sections
fifty-four to sixty-one, both inclusive, of title second.
(4.) Sections 'twenty-two to twenty-nine, both inclusive, of title fifth of
chapter fifth.
(5.) All of chapter sixth, except sections twelve and thirteen of title sec
ond ; section fourteen of title fourth, and articles first and second of title
sixth.
(6.) All of chapter seventh, except sections fifteen and sixteen of title
second ; and sections sixty-three to seventy, both inclusive, and sections sev
enty-four, seventy-five and seventy-six of title third.
(7.) The following portions of chapter eighth :
All of title first.
All of title second.
Section eight of title third.
All of article first of title fourth, except sections one to three thereof, both
inclusive, and sections twelve to fifteen thereof, both inclusive.
The following portions of title sixth, to wit : so much of sections sixteen to
twenty-one thereof, both inclusive, as relates to petit jurors, and sections
thirty-seven to forty-two thereof, both inclusive.
Section one of title thirteenth.
All of title seventeenth, except sections one, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen,
twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty, thirty-two and thirty-five
thereof.
*•
(8.) The following portions of chapter ninth :
All of title third, except section sixty-six thereof, and so much of article
third thereof as applies to appeals from surrogates' courts.
4. Code of Procedure. All of the Code of Procedure ; except the fol
lowing sections and parts of sections thereof, to wit :
Sections one to eight, both inclusive.
The introductory clause, and subdivisions two, ten and eleven of section
thirty.
Sections fifty-two to seventy-one, both inclusive.
Section one hundred and eleven.
Section one hundred and twelve.
Section one hundred and eighteen.
Section one hundred and thirty-two.
The introductory clause, and subdivisions one and four of section one
hundred and thirty-six.
Section one hundred and sixty-six.
The concluding portion of section one hundred and sixty-seven, beginning
with the words "in actions to foreclose mortgages."
Sections two hundred and six to two hundred and seventeen, both inclu
sive.
Section two hundred and twenty-four.
Section two hundred and forty-three.
The introductory clause, and subdivisions three and four of section two
hundred and forty-four.
Those portions of section two hundred and fifty-six, which are not incon
sistent with or superseded by the act chapter four hundred and forty -eight
of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-six, entitled " An act relating
to courts, officers of justice and civil proceedings."
That portion of section two hnudred and sixty-one, beginning with the
words " in an action for the recovery of specific personal property," and
ending with the words " or taking and withholding such property."
Section two hundred and seventy-seven.
The concluding portion of section two hundred and eighty-four, beginning
with the words " when judgment shall have been rendered."
Sections two hundred and ninety-two to three hundred and nine, both
inclusive.
Sections three hundred and eleven to three hundred and twenty-two, both
inclusive.
Sections three hundred and fifty-one to three hundred and seventy-one,
both inclusive.
Sections three hundred and seventy-five to three hundred and eighty-one,
both inclusive.
Sections four hundred and twenty-seven to four hundred and sixty-nine,
both inclusive.
Sections four hundred and seventy-one to four hundred and seventy-three,
both inclusive.
5. 1831. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-one :
Chapter one hundred and ninety-one.
6. 1832. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-two :
Chapters one hundred and twenty-eight, one hundred and fifty-eight, and
two hundred and seventy-six.
7. 1833. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-three.
Chapters fourteen, one hundred and fifty-nine, and one hundred and
eighty-seven.
All of chapter two hundred and seventy-one, except section six thereof.
8. 1834. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-four:
Chapters ninety-four and two hundred and sixty-two.
9. 1835. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-five.
Chapters one hundred and fifty-nine, one hundred and eighty-nine, one
hundred and ninety-seven, and two hundred and eleven.
10. 1836. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-six.
Chapters four hundred and thirty-nine, four hundred and ninety-nine, and
five hundred and twenty-five.
11. 183.'. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-seven :
Chapers* ninety-three, one hundred and sixty-four, four hundred and
sixty-two, and four hundred and sixty-eight.
12. 1838. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-eight :
Chapter one hundred and twenty-nine.
*
13. 1839. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-nine :
Chapter one hundred and sixteen.
Sections one, two, five, six, nine, ten, fourteen, fifteen, seventeen, eighteen,
and twenty, of chapter two hundred and ten.
All of chapters three hundred and three, three hundred and seventeen,
and three hundred and forty-six.
* So In the original.
14. 1840. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty :
Chapter two hundred and fifty-one, except sections nine and ten thereof.
All of chapter two hundred and seventy-six.
15. 184]. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-one :
Chapter one hundred and ninety-three, two hundred and twenty-four,
two hundred and forty-two, two hundred and seventy-two, and two hundred
and eighty-two.
16. 1842. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-two :
Chapter one hundred and nine, except section five thereof.
Section one of chapter one hundred and fifty-seven.
17. 1843. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-three :
Chapter eighty-eight and one hundred and eighty-eight.
18. 1844. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-four :
Chapter one hundred and four, except section two thereof.
All of chapters one hundred and forty-eight, two hundred and ninety-five
and three hundred and twenty-four.
19. 1845. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-five :
Chapter twenty-four.
Section one of chapter one hundred and twelve.
All of chapters one hundred and thirty-three, one hundred and sixty-three,
two hundred and twenty-nine, two hundred and thirty-one, two hundred
and thirty-four and three hundred and three.
20. 1846. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-six :
Chapters two, thirty-two, seventy-five, one hundred and twenty, one hun
dred and fifty, two hundred and forty and two hundred and forty-three.
21. 1847. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-seven :
Chapter eighty-five.
Section one of chapter one hundred and thirty-four.
Section fifteen of chapter two hundred and seventy-six.
Sections twelve, thirteen and fourteen of chapter two hundred and seven
ty-seven.
All of chapter two hundred and eighty, except the following portions
thereof, to wit : article first and article fifth ; sections twenty-two, twentyfive, thirty-two, thirty-three, thirty-seven and sixty-five ; and so much of
sections twenty-eight and forty-five as applies to surrogates' courts.
All of chapter three hundred and seventy-seven.
Sections two and three of chapter three hundred and ninety.
Sections one to six, both inclusive, of chapter four hundred and ten.
All of chapter four hundred and seventy, except sections fourteen, twentysix, thirty-two, thirty-three, thirty-five, forty-five and fifty-three thereof.
All of chapter four hundred and ninety-five, except the last sentence of
section two thereof.
22. 1848 Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-eight :
Chapters two hundred and twenty-two, two hundred and twenty-four,
two hundred and seventy-seven, three hundred and seventy-nine and three
hundred and eighty.
23. 1849. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-nine .
Chapter eight.
All of chapter one hundred and twenty-four, except sections one and thir
teen thereof.
All of chapter one hundred and twenty-five, except sections one, eleven,
twelve, twenty and twenty-one thereof, and sections twenty-seven to thirtynine thereof, both inclusive ; but the repeal of section ten does not affect sec
tion five of chapter sixty-six of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixtythree ; and the repeal of section twenty-four does not affect section twelve
of chapter four hundred and seventy of the laws of eighteen hundred and
seventy.
Section five, eight, nine and ten of chapter one hundred and forty-four.
Section thirty-two of chapter two hundred and twenty-six.
All of chapter three hundred and thirty-three and three hundred and
thirty-seven.
Sections eleven to eighteen, both inclusive, of chapter four hundred and
thirty-nine.
24. 1850. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty :
Chapters one, fifteen and forty-one.
Sections one to ten, both inclusive, of chapter one hundred and two.
Chapter one hundred and twenty-eight.
Sections one, two, three, four, nine and ten of chapter one hundred and
thirty-eight.
Section three of chapter two hundred and twenty-five.
All of chapters two hundred and forty-five, two hundred and sixty and
two hundred and ninety-five.
25. 1851. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-one :
Chapters two and twenty-one.
Sections seven, eight and ten of chapter forty-three.
All of chapters two hundred and two and two hundred and eleven.
All of chapter four hundred and eighty-eight, except the concluding por
tion of section two thereof, beginning with the words " and in case of the
inability or omission.
26. 1852. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-two :
Chapter forty-four.
All of chapter three hundred and fourteen, except section one thereof.
All of chapter three hundred and seventy-four, except sections seven and
eight thereof.
Sections four, six, seven, nine and ten of chapter three hundred and
eighty-nine.
27. 1853. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-three :
So much of chapter ninety-one as amends sections seven and ten of chap
ter forty-three of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-one.
All of chapter three hundred and thirty-eight, except section four thereof.
All of chapters three hundred and eighty-seven and four hundred and
fifty-four.
So much of section nine of chapter four hundred and ninety-eight as
relates to petit jurors.
All of chapters five hundred and eleven, five hundred and twenty-nine
and five hundred and fifty-four.
Sections one, two and three of chapter six hundred and seventeen.
28. 1854. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-four :
Chapter seventy-five.
All of chapter ninety-six, except sections six, twelve, twenty-six and
twenty-seven thereof, and sections thirty to thirty-nine thereof, both inclu
sive.
Sections one, five and six of chapter one hundred and ninety-eight.
Sections one and two of chapter two hundred and seventy.
29. 1855. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-five :
Chapter two hundred and seventy-nine.
Section three of chapter three hundred and ten.
All of chapter five hundred and thirty.
30. 1856. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-six :
Chapter one hundred and sixty-six.
31. 1857. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-seven :
Chapter sixty.
Section two of chapter one hundred and and eighty-three.
Section six of chapter two hundred and ninety-five.
All of chapter three hundred and sixty-one, except sections nine and ten
ereof.
All of chapter five hundred and sixty-seven.
32. 1858. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-eight :
Chapters thirty-seven, one hundred and seven and two hundred and fortyfour.
All of chapter three hundred and twenty-two, except sections one to five
thereof, both inclusive, sections thirty to thirty-five thereof, both inclusive,
and sections thirty-seven and thirty-eight thereof.
Section two of chapter three hundred and thirty-four.
33. 1859. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-nine :
Chapter one hundred and thirty-four.
Section two of chapter one hundred and seventy-nine.
All of chapter one hundred and ninety-eight.
Section three of chapter two hundred and twelve.
Section one of chapter two hundred and sixty-two.
Section two of chapter two hundred and sixty-sBven.
All of chapters three hundred and seventy-nine and four hundred and
forty.
34. 1860. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty :
Chapter six and one hundred and sixty-seven.
So much of chapters one hundred and eighty-seven and two hundred and
two, as requires the graduates therein specified to be admitted to practice,
upon the production of their diplomas.
35. 1861. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-one :
Chapters eight, sixty-one, seventy-three, eighty-six, two hundred and ten,
and two hundred and eighty-eight.
36. 1862. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-two :
Chapters fifty-three, eighty-six, two hundred and fifty-one, and three
hundred and seventy-five.
Section four of chapter three hundred and seventy-eight.
All of chapter four hundred and seventy-one.
Sections one and two of chapter four hundred and eighty-four.
37. 1863. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-three :
All of chapter sixty-six, except section five thereof.
All of chapters one hundred and eighty-six, two hundred, two hundred
and six and two hundred and twelve.
Section three of chapter two hundred and forty-six.
The second sentence of section one of chapter four hundred and twelve.
So much of section one of chapter five hundred and six as relates to petit
jurors.
38. 1864 Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-four :
Chapters forty-six, ninety-five, five hundred and forty-three and five
hundred and seventy-eight
39. 1865. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-five :
All of chapter one hundred and seventy, except section six thereof, as
amended hy section one of chapter seven hundred and ninety-six of the
laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-seven.
Chapter two hundred and eighteen.
Section one of chapter two hundred and ninety-six.
The concluding portion of section one of chapter three hundred and nine,
beginning with the words, " and in any action in any of the courts."
All of chapters five hundred and twelve, and five hundred and fifty-five.
40. 1866. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-six :
Chapters one hundred and seventy-four, one hundred and seventy-five,
three hundred and eleven, four hundred and twenty-one, four hundred and
thirty-seven, five hundred and eighty-eight, and seven hundred and eightytwo.
Sections one to ten, both inclusive, of chapter eight hundred and twentyone.
41. 1867. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-seven :
Chapters one hundred and sixteen, two hundred and eleven, two hundred
and seventy-one, three hundred and eighty-three and four hundred and
ninety-four.
The first seutence of section three of chapter seven hundred.
All of chapter seven hundred and eighty-four.
Sections two and three of chapter seven hundred and ninety-six.
All of chapter eight hundred and eighty-seven, except so much thereof as
relates to proceedings in a criminal cause.
42. 1868. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-eight :
Chapter five hundred and ninety-six.
All of chapter seven hundred and sixty-five, except sections one, three,
and four thereof. fThis subd. thus amended by L. 1878, ch. 408.] (a)
43. 1869. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-nine :
Chapters ninety-nine and one hundred and thirty-three.
Section one of chapter one hundred and fifty-seven.
All of chapter four hundred and eighteen.
Section five of chapter four hundred and thirty-three.
All of chapters five hundred and eighty-nine and six hundred and twentysix.
Section one of chapter six hundred and sixty-four.
All of chapters six hundred and seventy-four, eight hundred and seven
and eight hundred and thirteen.
44. 1870. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy :
Chapter forty-nine.
Section eight of chapter eighty-six.
All of chapter three hundred and thirteen, except sections eight and ten
thereof.
Sections one to eight, both inclusive, and sections ten to fourteen, both
inclusive, of chapter four hundred and ci^rht.
(a) The words in italics milled by the act of 1878.
All of chapter four hundred and nine.
Section one of chapter four hundred and sixty-seven.
All of chapter four hundred and seventy, except sections one, eight, nine,
ten, twelve, and eighteen thereof ; but the repeal of section twenty does not
affect section seven of chapter two hundred and eighty-two of the laws of
eighteen hundred and seventy-one.
All of chapter five hundred and thirty-nine, except sections seventeen,
twenty-six, twenty-seven and twenty-eight thereof, and so much of section
seven thereof as relates to grand jurors.
Sections one, three and five of chapter five hundred and eighty-two.
Sections one and two of chapter six hundred and forty-eight.
45. 187L Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-one :
Chapters sixteen and two hundred and eight.
All of chapter two hundred and eighty-two, except section seven thereof.
All of chapter four hundred and eighty-six.
The concluding portion of section five of chapter five hundred and eightythree, beginning with the words " and all actions or proceedings in which
the mayor."
Section two of chapter six hundred and three.
All of chapters seven hundred, seven hundred and ten, seven hundred
and thirty-three, seven hundred and forty-four, and seven hundred and
sixty-six.
Sections one and five of chapter seven hundred and ninety-nine.
46. 1872. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-two :
Chapters sixteen, one hundred and thirty-nine, and two hundred and
sixty.
All of chapter four hundred and thirty-eight, except so much as relates
to criminal courts, (a)
All of chapters four hundred and ninety-nine, five hundred and nineteen,
five hundred and thirty-five, and five hundred and thirty-eight.
Sections one, three, eight and twelve of chapter six hundred and twentynine.
All of chapters six hundred and eighty-eight, and seven hundred and
seventy-eight.
47. 1873. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-three :
So much of sections one and two of chapter seventy, as prescribes a
preference of causes on the calendars of courts.
Section one of chapter one hundred and sixty-five.
Section one of chapter one hundred and sixty-six.
All of chapters one hundred and ninety-six, two hundred and twelve, two
hundred and thirty-nine, and two hundred and ninety-nine.
So much of chapter four hundred and twenty-seven, as relates to civil
causes.
Sections two and three of chapter four hundred and fifty-three.
All of chapter six hundred and three.
48 1874. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-four :
Chapter fifty-two.
All of chapter fifty-seven, except section three thereof.
All of chapter two hundred and thirty-two, except section five thereof.
All of chapter three hundred and twenty-two.
Sections four, five, eight, and thirteen of chapter five hundred and
forty-five.
(a) The repeal, by this subd , of L. 1872, ch. 438, so far as it relates to the clerks anil assistantclerks of the district courts of the city of New York, abrogated, and the act of 1872 to that extent
revived, by L. 1878, ch. 345.
49. 1875. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-five :
Chapters three and thirty-two.
Section five of chapter forty-nine.
All of chapters fifty-two, one hundred and twenty-seven, one hundred and
thirty-one, one hundred and thirty-nine, and one hundred and sixty-seven.
Sections one and four of chapter two hundred and fifty-one.
All of chapter three hundred and sixty-six.
All of chapter four hundred and seventy-nine, except section forty-one
thereof, sections forty-three to fifty-two thereof, both inclusive, and sections
fifty-four and fifty-five thereof.
§ 2. Repeal by last preceding section, effect of. The repeal, by the
last preceding section, cf the portions of the Revised Statutes and of the
Code of Procedure therein specified, effects also the repeal of so much of the
existing laws as expressly amends the portions so repealed, by adding to or
otherwise altering the text thereof. The description contained in the last
preceding section of statutes, other than the Revised Statutes or the Code of
Procedure, refers to the statutes as they appear in the volumes of the laws
of each session, printed and published by the State printer until the year
eighteen hundred and forty-two, and after that year under the direction of
the Secretary of State.
§ 3. Qualifications in relation to repeal. The repeal, effected by the
first section of this act, is subject to the following qualifications :
1. It does not render ineffectual, or otherwise impair, any proceeding in
an action or special proceeding, taken, according to any provision of the
existing laws, before this act takes effect ; and, where it would render
ineffectual, or otherwise impair such a proceeding, that provision must be
deemed to remain unrepealed, for the purpose of avoiding such a result.
2. It does not affect any lawful act done, or right accrued or established,
before this act takes effect ; but every such act or right remains as valid and
effectual as if this act had not been passed.
3. It does not affect any offense committed, or penalty or forfeiture
incurred, before this act takes effect ; except that the proceedings in a civil
action or sx^ecial proceeding, brought by reason thereof, are subject to the
provisions of the laws in force after that time.
4. It does not affect the jurisdiction, power, or authority of any court or
judge in a criminal action or special proceeding, nor does it affect any future
proceeding, taken, according to the existing laws, in such an action or special
proceeding, except as otherwise prescribed in subdivision eighth of this sec
tion, or in the act chapter four hundred and forty-nine of the laws of eighteen
hundred and seventy-six, entitled "An act explaining, defining and regu
lating the effect and application of, and otherwise relating to, the act, passed
at this session, of the Legislature, entitled 'An act relating to courts, officers
of justice and civil proceedings.' "
5. It does not affect the jurisdiction, power or authority of the court of
common pleas for the city and county of New York, in an appeal from a
determination of the marine court of the city of New York, or of a district
court of that city, or any proceeding upon such an appeal.
6. It does not affect the power or authority of a court, other than the
supreme court, a superior city court, the marine court of the city of New
York, or a county court, in an action or special proceeding of which such a
court retains jurisdiction under the laws in force after this act takes effect;
nor does it affect any future proceeding taken, according to the existing
laws, in such an action or special proceeding, except as otherwise prescribed
in the act specified in subdivision fourth of this section.
7. It does not affect the jurisdiction, power or authority of a mayor's or
recorder's court, or of a judge thereof, in or over an action or special proceed
ing commenced in such a court before this act takes effect ; nor does it affect
any future proceeding taken, according to the existing laws, in such an
action or special proceeding, except as otherwise prescribed in the act speci
fied in subdivision fourth of this section.
8. It does not affect any list or drawing of grand or petit jurors, or the
ballots containing their names, prepared or made according to the existing
laws, until a new list or new ballots are prepared, or a new drawing is made,
as prescribed in the act, chapter four hundred and forty-eight of the laws of
eighteen hundred and seventy-six, entitled "'An act relating to courts, offi
cers of justice and civil proceedings," and in the act specified in subdivision
fourth of this section. Nor does it affect the qualifications or exemptions of
grand or petit jurors until the provisions of those acts relating to the same
subjects take effect.
9. It does not affect an execution issued out of a court of record, before
this act takes effect ; or the proceedings taken by virtue of such an execu
tion, including the sale of property and the redemption of real property, or
a chattel real, sold by virtue thereof. All such proceedings are governed by
the provisions of the existing laws relating thereto ; which provisions, for
that purpose, remain in force as if this act had not been passed.
10. It does not affect any provisions of the existing laws prescribing the
place or places where one or more terms of a court, other than the terms of
the court of appeals, or the general terms of the supreme court, must or may
be held.
11. Except as otherwise prescribed in section two of this act, the repeal
of any provisions of the existing laws, which has* been amended by a sub
sequent provision of those laws, not expressly repealed by this act, does not
affect the subsequent provision.
12. The repeal of any provision of the existing laws does not revive any
law repealed by the latter.
13. The repeal of a law heretofore repealed is not to be construed as a
declaration or implication that the repealed law has been in force at any
time subsequent to the formal repeal.
14. The repeal of a portion of a law is not to be construed as reviving any
other portion of that law which has been expressly or impliedly repealed by
a law subsequently enacted. .
15. Where a provision of the existing laws, incorporated into or adopted,
or otherwise referred to, in any provision of the existing laws remaining in
force after this act takes effect, is repealed, that provision, nevertheless,
remains in force for the purpose to which it is so referred to, and for no
other, except that where it has been revised in and made a part of the act
chapter four hundred and forty-eight of the laws of eighteen hundred and
seventy-six, entitled "An act relating to courts, officers of justice and civil
proceedings," the reference is to be construed as applying to the appropriate
provisions so revised.
16. The repeal of any of the existing laws creating, or otherwise relating
to, an office or employment, where the same, or a corresponding office or
employment is provided for or recognized in the act specified in subdivision
fifteen of this section, or in any of the existing laws remaining in force after
• So In the original. 1877. 
this act takes effect, does not create a vacancy therein, or affect the compen
sation of the incumbent.
17. The repeal of the laws conferring upon a graduate of the law depart
ment of the University of Albany, or of the law school of Columbia College,
or of the law department of Hamilton College, or of the law department of
the University of the City of New York, the right to be admitted to prac
tice as an attorney and counsellor at law, upon the production of his diploma,
does not affect the right of a person who was a student in, or was graduated
by, either of those departments or schools, on or before the first day of
April, eighteen hundred and eighty, to be so admitted at any time within
one year after this amendatory act takes effect, upon his complying with the
existing laws, as hereinafter defined, relating to the admission of such gradu
ate to practice ; nor does th-e repeal of said laws, or of chapter four hundred and
eighty-six of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-one, affect the right of any
other person, who, but for the repeal of the said law or laws, would hare been
entitled to be admitted as an attorney and counsellor at law, at any time on or
before the first day of October, eighteen hundred and eighty-one, to be so admitted
as an attorney and counsellor at law, within one year after this amendatory act
takes effect, upon his complying with the existing laws, as defined in section four
of the act as hereby amended, relating to the admission of such a graduate or
person to practice, or upon the production of a license, granted to any such person,
by the supreme court, at a general term thereof, permitting such person to practice
as an attorney. [This subd. thus amended by L. 1881, ch. 25.] (a)
§ 4. " Existing laws" defined. The term "existing laws," as used in
this act, designates the statutes of the State remaining unrepealed on the
day before this act takes effect.
§ 5. Act takes effect September 1, 1877. This act shall take effeot
on the first day of September, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven.
(a) The amendments of 1881 consist of the addition (to the subd. as originally enacted) of the
words in Italics. By < 2 of the act of 1881, it takes effect immediately. This amendment, as the
latest, supersedes the following acts, each of which amended this subdivision, viz. : L. 1878, ch. 126 :
L. 1879, chs. 35, 257 and 349; L. 1880, ch. 58.
L. 1880, CH. 245.
AN ACT repealing certain acts and parts of acts.
Passed May 10, 1880.
The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly, do
enact as follows :
Section 1 The following acts and parts of acts heretofore passed by the
Legislature of the State are hereby repealed, namely :
1. Revised Statutes. Of the first part of the Revised Statutes :
(1.1 Title fourth of chapter fifth ; except sections fourteen and fifteen and
article fourth, thereof.
(2.) The following portions of chapter eighth :
Sections ten to fourteen, both inclusive, of title fifth.
All of title seventh.
(3.) Titles twelfth and thirteenth of chapter ninth.
(4.) The final clause of section four of title fourth of chapter eighteenth,
beginning with the words, " and whenever any incorporated company shall
have remained."
2. Revised Statutes. Of the second part of the Revised Statutes :
(1.) The following portions of chapter first :
Sections eighteen to twenty-four, both inclusive, of title third.
Sections four, five, and six, of title fourth.
Section three, and sections five to nine, both inclusive, of title fifth.
(2.) The following portions of chapter fifth :
All of title first ; except article eighth thereof.
All of title second.
(3.) The following portions of chapter sixth :
All of title first, except sections one, two, three, four, five, twenty-one and
twenty-two, sections forty to fifty-three, both inclusive, and sections sixtynine, seventy and seventy-one thereof.
All of title second, except sections three, four, five, fifteen, sixteen, twentyone, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty-two, thirty-three,
The following portions of title third, namely : Sections seventeen, eighteen,
nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, thirty-one, thirty-two, and thirtyeight; the concluding portion of section thirty-nine, beginning with the
words " but may prove such notice ;" sections forty to forty-two, both inclu
sive ; sections fifty-two to fifty-six, both inclusive ; the concluding portion
of section fifty-eight, as amended by chapter three hundred and sixty-two
of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-three, beginning with the words:
" But if the personal estate ;" all of sections fifty-nine to seventy-four, both
inclusive, and sections eighty, eighty-one, eighty-two and eighty-three.
All of title fourth except sections fifty-five and fifty-eight thereof.
All of title fifth, except sections one to six, both inclusive, and section
twenty-three thereof.
(4.) The following portions of chapter eighth :
All of title first, except article first thereof, and section forty-nine thereof.
All of title third, except sections one, two, three, twenty and twenty-one,
thereof.
3. Revised Statutes. The third part of the Revised Statutes, except the
following portions thereof :
(1.) Of chapter first.
Articles first and second of title first.
Sections twenty-eight to forty-four, both inclusive, of title fourth.
Sections four, five, six, seven, twenty-one, twenty-four, twenty-five, twentyseven, twenty-eight and twenty-nine of title fifth ; bo much of section
twenty as fixes the places, where the courts of common pleas and general
sessions shall be held ; and so much of sections eleven and fourteen thereof,
as relate to courts of general sessions.
(2.) Of chapter second.
Sections twenty-three, twenty-four, two hundred and thirty-one, two hun
dred and sixty-eight, two hundred and sixty-nine, and two hundred and
seventy of title fourth.
(3.) Of chapter third.
Sections forty, forty-one, forty-four, forty-five and forty-eight, and sec
tions fifty-four to sixty-one, both inclusive, of title second.
(4.) Of chapter seventh.
Section sixty-three to seventy, both inclusive, of title third.
(5.) Of chapter eighth.
Sections one, two, eleven, seventeen and eighteen of title third.
The following portions of title fourth, namely : Section forty-two, which is
hereby made applicable to a permanent receiver appointed as prescribed in
section seventeen hundred and eighty-eight of the Code of Civil Procedure;
sections sixty-six to eighty-nine, both inclusive, which are hereby made
applicable to a receiver appointed as prescribed in section twenty-four hun
dred and twenty-nine of the Code of Civil Procedure ; and sections one hun
dred and two to one hundred and six, both inclusive.
All of title eleventh.
All of title sixteenth.
Sections twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty, thirty-two and
thirty-five, of title seventeenth.
(6.) Of chapter tenth.
Sections one, forty-one, forty-two, and fifty-one, of title third.
Sections one, two and four, of title third.
4. Pleadings and proceedings of the courts of this State. The act
entitled "An act to simplify and abridge the practice, pleadings and pro
ceedings of the courts of this State," passed April twelfth, eighteen hun
dred and forty-eight ; being chapter three hundred and seventy-nine of the
laws of eighteen hundred and forty-eight, and the act amending the same,
being chapter four hundred and thirty-eight, of the laws of eighteen hundree and forty-nine, otherwise called the Code of Procedure.
5. 1813. Of the revised .aw3 of eighteen hundred and thirteen :
The following portions ef chapter eighty-six, entitled " An act to reduce
several laws, relating particularly to the city of New York, into one act,"
passed April ninth, eighteen hundred and thirteen, namely : sections eightyfive to one hundred and forty-five, both inclusive.
6. 1825. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and twenty-five ; ,
Chapter one hundred and seventy-nine.
7. 1829. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and twenty-nine :
Chapter one hundred and eighty-three.
8. 1830. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty
Chapters twenty-four, seventy-six, seventy-eight, eighty-four, one hun
dred and eighty-five, one hundred and eighty-six and two hundred and
fifty-two.
9. 1831. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-one :
Chapters twenty-four, one hundred and thirty-three, two hundred, and
two hundred and seventeen.
Section two of chapter two hundred and thirty-seven.
All of chapters two hundred and eighty-seven and three hundred
10. 1832. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-two :
Chapters seven, nine, two hundred and eleven, and two hundred and
ninety-five.
11. 1833. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-three :
Chapters forty-two, fifty-two, two hundred, two hundred and twentythree, two hundred and twenty-seven, and two hundred and seventy-one.
12. 1834. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-four :
Chapters eighty-eight, one hundred and seventy, two hundred and thirtyfive, two hundred and forty-five, and three hundred and eight.
13. 1836. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-six :
Chapters three hundred and eighty-five, and five hundred and twenty-six.
14. 1837. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-seven :
Chapters two hundred and forty, three hundred and sixty-seven, four hun
dred and eighteen, and four hundred and sixty.
Sections three and four of chapter four hundred and sixty-one.
Section one of chapter four hundred and sixty-five.
15. 1838. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-eight :
Chapters one hundred and thirty-eight, one hundred and forty-nine, two
hundred and twelve, two hundred and forty-three, and two hundred and
fifty-seven.
16. 1839. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and thirty-nine :
Chapters eighty-six, one hundred and three, three hundred and forty-two,
and three hundred and forty-three.
17. 1840. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty:
Chapters sixty-five, one hundred and sixty-five, one hundred and seventyseven, and two hundred and twenty-five.
Section two of chapter two hundred and thirty-eight.
All of chapters two hundred and thirty-nine, three hundred and seven
teen, three hundred and forty-two, three hundred and forty-seven, three
hundred and seventy-seven, three hundred and seventy-nine, three hundred
and eighty-four, and three hundred and eighty-six.
18. 1841. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-one :
Chapters thirty-eight, one hundred and twenty-nine, one hundred and
thirty-eight, one hundred and forty-one, two hundred and fifty-seven, and
three hundred and twenty-one.
19. 1842. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-two
Chapters one hundred and seven, one hundred and ninety-Beven, two
hundred and forty, and two hundred and seventy-seven.
20. 1843. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-three :
Chapters one hundred and twenty-one and one hundred and seventy-two.
Sections one, three and four of chapter one hundred and seventy-seven.
All of chapter two hundred and one.
21. 1844. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-four :
Chapters eleven, thirty-two, one hundred and four, one hundred and
twenty-seven, two hundred and seventy-three, three hundred, and three
hundred and twelve.
Sections two and sixteen of chapter three hundred and nineteen.
All of chapter three hundred and forty-six.
22. 1845. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-five :
Chapters one hundred and twelve, two hundred and ten, two hundred and
fourteen, and two hundred and forty-two.
Section three, of chapter two hundred and ninety-one.
All of chapter three hundred and forty-eight.
23. 1846. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-six :
Chapters one hundred and forty, one hundred and fifty-nine, one hundred
and eighty-two, two hundred and nine, two hundred and seventy-four, two
hundred and seventy-six, and two hundred and eighty-eight.
24. 1847. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-seven :
Chapters five, and one hundred and nineteen.
Sections seven, eleven, twelve, thirteen and fourteen of chapter two hun
dred and seventy-seven.
All of chapter two hundred and eighty ; except the following portions
thereof, namely : Article first and article fifth ; and sections twenty-five and
sixty-five.
All of chapters two hundred and ninety-eight, three hundred and twentynine, three hundred and thirty-seven, three hundred and thirty-nine, three
hundred and fifty-two, three hundred and fifty-three, three hundred and
sixty-six, four hundred and thirty, four hundred and fifty, four hundred
and sixty-two and four hundred and sixty-four.
All of chapter four hundred and seventy, except sections twenty-eix,
thirty-three and thirty-five thereof.
25. 1848. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-eight :
Chapters twenty-eight, thirty-five, forty-eight, fifty, fifty-three, one hun
dred and seventy, and one hundred and eighty-five.
Section one of chapter one hundred and ninety-seven.
All of chapter three hundred and twelve.
Section two of chapter three hundred and seventy-four.
26. 1849. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and forty-nine :
Chapters twenty-two, thirty and seventy-six.
All of chapters one hundred and seventy-three and one hundred and
seventy-six.
Section one of chapter two hundred and fifty-nine.
All of chapters two hundred and fifty-eight, three hundred and fiftyseven, three hundred and eighty, four hundred and thirty-eight, and four
hundred and thirty-nine.
27. 1850. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty :
Chapters eighty-two and ninety-four. •
Sections one, two, three, four, nine, ten and eleven of chapter one hundred
and thirty-eight.
All of chapters one hundred and fifty, one hundred and sixty-two, one
hundred and ninety-four, two hundred and ten, and two hundred and
twenty-five.
28. 185L Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-one :
Chapters two hundred and seventy-seven and four hundred and fifty-five.
29. 1852. Of the laws of eighteen hundred fifty-two :
Section one of chapter seventy-one.
All of chapters one hundred and seventy-five and two hundred and sev
enty-seven.
All of chapter three hundred and eighty-nine, except sections one, two,
three and five thereof.
30. 1853. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-three :
Chapters one hundred and fifty-three, two hundred and thirty-eight, six
hundred and seventeen, and six hundred and forty-eight.
31. 1854. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-four:
All of chapter ninety-six, except section six, and sections thirty to thirtynine thereof, both inclusive.
All of chapters one hundred and sixteen and one hundred and thirty.
All of chapters two hundred and six and two hundred and seventy.
32. 1855. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-five :
Chapter eighty-five.
Sections one and two of chapter two hundred and two.
All of chapter five hundred and eleven.
33. 1857. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-seven :
Chapter one hundred and seventy-three.
All of chapter two hundred and ninety-five, except section seven thereof.
All of chapter three hundred and eight.
Sections three, ten, fifteen, fifty-one, and seventy-six, of chapter three
hundred and forty-four.
All of chapters five hundred and twelve, six hundred and seventy-nine,
and seven hundred and seventy-five.
34. 1858. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-eight :
Chapters one hundred and seventy-six, and two hundred and thirteen.
Section three of chapter three hundred and fourteen.
Sections two to six, both inclusive, of chapter three hundred and thirtyfour.
35. 1859. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and fifty-nine :
Chapters one hundred and seventy-four, two hundred and fifty-two, and
two hundred and sixty-two.
Ch. 245.
Section one of chapter three hundred and eighty-nine.
36. 1860. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty :
Chapter eighty.
Section seven of chapter ninety.
All of chapters one hundred and thirty-one, one hundred and thirty-six,
one hundred and seventy-three, four hundred and three, and four hundred
and twenty-seven.
Sections one and two of chapter four hundred and ninety-three.
37. 1861. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-one.
Chapters eleven and twelve.
38. 1862. Of the laws of eighteen hundred sixty-two :
Sections three, five and seven of chapter one hundred and seventy-two.
All of chapter two hundred and twenty-nine.
So much of chapter three hundred and thirty-seven as relates to justices
of the peace exercising civil jurisdiction.
The first clause of section one of chapter three hundred and eighty-nine,
ending with the words " amount demanded or recovered does not exceed five
hundred dollars."
All of chapter four hundred and fifty-nine.
The following portions of chapter four hundred and eighty-four, namely :
So much of section three and seventeen as relates to the marine court of
the city of New York.
39. 1863. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-three :
Sections one, two, five, six and nine, of chapter three hundred and sixtytwo.
All of chapter four hundred and three.
40. 1864. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-four :
Chapter fifty-three.
Sections one to eleven, both inclusive, of chapter seventy-one.
All of chapters two hundred and nineteen, three hundred and eleven, three
hundred and seventy-one, four hundred and eleven, four hundred and seven
teen, and five hundred and forty-five.
41. 1865. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-five :
Chapters eighty-one, three hundred and fifty-seven, four hundred and
thirty-six, six hundred and sixteen, and seven hundred and thirty-three.
42. 1866. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-six :
Chapters three hundred and seven, and six hundred and thirty-six.
Sections one, two, six, seven, nine and ten, of chapter six hundred and
ninety-two.
All of chapters seven hundred and one and seven hundred and fiftyeight.
43. 1867. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-seven :
Chapters one hundred and ten, five hundred and sixteen, and six hundred
and fifty-eight.
Section one, sections seven to ten, both inclusive, and section sixteen of
chapter seven hundred and eighty-two.
All of chapter eight hundred and fourteen.
44. 1868. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-eight :
Chapters five hundred and ninety-four, eight hundred and four, and eight
hundred and twenty-eight.
45. 1869. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-nine :
Chapters one hundred and fifty-seven, two hundred and forty-six, two
hundred and sixty, four hundred and twenty-four, and four hundred and
thirty-three.
Section four of chapter five hundred and sixty-nine.
All of chapters six hundred and twenty-seven, seven hundred and thirtyeightand seven hundred and forty-eight.
So much of section one of chapter eight hundred and twenty as amends
sections six and seven of chapter six hundred and ninety-two of the laws of
eighteen hundred and sixty-six.
All of chapters eight hundred and thirty-one and eight hundred and
forty-five.
46. 1870. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy :
Chapters twenty, thirty-seven and fifty-nine.
Section two of chapter seventy-four.
All of chapter seventy-eight.
(Sections one, two and three of chapter one hundred and fifty-one.
All of chapters one hundred and seventy, three hundred and fifty-nine,
three hundred and ninety-four, four hundred and sixty-seven, seven hun
dred and six, and seven hundred and seventeen.
47. 1871. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-one :
Chapters two hundred and nineteen, three hundred and sixty-one, four
hundred and fifteen, and four hundred and eighty-two.
Sections one to seven, both inclusive, of chapter four hundred and ninetytwo.
All of chapters six hundred and three, seven hundred and ninety-nine,
and eight hundred and thirty-four.
Sections seven and eight of chapter eight hundred and fifty-nine.
All of chapters eight hundred and seventy-four and nine hundred and
thirty-six.
48. 1872. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-two :
Chapters twenty-six, ninety-two, and one hundred and sixty-one.
All of chapter four hundred and thirty-eight, except so much thereof as
relates to criminal courts, or to district courts in the city of New York.
All of chapters six hundred and twenty-nine, six hundred and eighty,
six hundred and ninety-three, and seven hundred and seventy-six.
49. 1873. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-three :
Sections one and three of chapter sixty-one, as the latter section is
amended by chapter one hundred and seventy-one of the laws of eighteen
hundred and seventy-four.
All of chapters seventy, one hundred and eighty-two, two hundred and
eleven, and five hundred and fifty-two.
The concluding portion of section one of chapter five hundred and eightythree, beginning with the words, " and shall have the same remedies to
recover."
50. 1874. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-four.
Chapters nine, fifty-four, one hundred and twenty-seven, one hundred
and fifty-six, two hundred and fifty-eight, two hundred and sixty-seven,
and four hundred and thirty-seven.
Section thirty-eight of title one, and all of title two of chapter four hun
dred and forty-six.
All of chapter four hundred and fifty-six.
All of section one of chapter four hundred and sixty, except the last sen
tence thereof, beginning with the words, " every juror shall receive."
All of chapters five hundred and twenty-four, and five hundred and fortyfive.
51. 1875. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-five :
Chapters forty-nine, three hundred and thirty-five, four hundred and
twenty-eight, and four hundred and forty-two.
All of chapter four hundred and seventy-nine, except section fifty-four
thereof.
All of chapters five hundred and nineteen, six hundred and twenty-three,
six hundred and twenty-five, and six hundred and thirty.
52. 1876. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-six :
Chapters one hundred and eighteen, and one hundred and thirty-six.
That portion of section five of chapter one hundred and ninety-six, as
amended by chapter one hundred and ninety-two of the laws of eighteen
hundred and seventy-seven, which follows the words, " at nine o'clock in
the forenoon."
All of chapter two hundred and five.
Section two of chapter two hundred and sixty-seven.
All of chapters two hundred and seventy-eight, and two hundred and
ninety-nine.
Sections one and two of chapter three hundred and thirty-eight.
Sections one, three and four of chapter four hundred and thirteen.
All of chapters four hundred and twenty-six, four hundred and thirtyone, four hundred and forty-two, and four hundred and forty-nine.
53. 1877. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-seven :
Chapters one hundred and eighty-seven, two hundred and six, two hun
dred and seventy-four, and two hundred and eighty-five.
54. 1878. Of the laws of eighteen hundred and seventy-eight :
Chapters thirty-three, one hundred and twenty-nine, and one hundred
and seventy-five.
Sections one, two and five of chapter one hundred and eighty-six.
Section two of chapter two hundred and ninety-eight.
All of chapter three hundred and twenty-four.
55. So much of every provision of the existing laws, not previously speci
fied in this section, relating to fees or other compensation of an officer or
other person, as is inconsistent with, or the subject-matter whereof is, fully
provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure, whether such provision has been
heretofore generally repealed or not.
t2. The repeal, by the last preceding section of the Code of Procedure,
of the portions of the Revised Statutes therein specified, effects also
the repeal of all of the existing laws which expressly amend the said Code
of Procedure or the portions of the Revised Statutes so repealed, by adding to
or otherwise altering the text thereof. The description contained in the last
preceding section of statutes, other than the revised laws of eighteen hundred
and thirteen, or the Revised Statutes, refers to the statutes as they appear in
the volumes of the laws of each session, printed and published by the State
printer until the year eighteen hundred and forty-two, and after that year
under the direction of the Secretary of State.
§ 3. The repeal effected by the first section of this act is subject to the
following qualifications :
1. It does not render ineffectual, or otherwise impair any proceeding in an
action or special proceeding had or taken pursuant to law before this act
takes effect ; and where the repeal of a provision, specified in that section,
would render ineffectual, or otherwise impair, such a proceeding, that pro
vision must be deemed to remain unrepealed, for the purpose of avoiding such
result.
2. It does not affect any other lawful act done, or right, defense or limita
tion, lawfully accrued or established, before this act takes effect ; and every
such right or act remains as valid and effectual as if this act had not been
passed. But this subdivision does not apply to a case provided for in chap
ter fourth of the Code of Civil Procedure.
3. It does not affect any offense committed, or penalty or forfeiture incur
red, before this act takes effect, except that the proceedings in a civil action
or special proceeding, brought by reason thereof, are subject to the provi
sions of the laws in force after this act takes effect.
4. It does not affect the jurisdiction, power or authority of any court or
judge, in a criminal action or a criminal special proceeding, nor does it affect
any future proceeding, taken according to the existing laws, in such an action
or special proceeding, except as otherwise prescribed in subdivision sixth of
this section, or implied in chapter twenty-second of the Code of Civil
Procedure.
5. It does not affect the power or authority of a court other than the
supreme court, a superior city court, the marine court of the city of New York,
or a county court, in an action or special proceeding, of which such a court
retains jurisdiction, under the laws in force, after this act takes effect ;
nor does it affect any future proceeding taken pursuant to law, in such an
action or special proceeding, except as otherwise implied in the Code of Civil
Procedure.
6. It does not affect the power, authority or jurisdiction of the county court
respecting ferries, fisheries, turnpike-roads, wrecks, physicians, habitual
drunkards, the removal of occupants from State lands, the laying out of rail
roads through Indian lands, and upon appeal from the determinations of com
missioners of highways, and all other powers and jurisdiction specially con
ferred by any statute remaining unrepealed after this act takes effect upon
the late court of common pleas of the county or the county court, and to pre
scribe the manner of exercising such jurisdiction, where the provisions of any
statute are inconsistent with the organization of the county court.
7. It does not affect any provision of the existing laws relating to the dis
trict courts of the city of New York, or costs or fees or proceedings in, or
appeals from, those courts, or the appointment, tenure of office, duty, or
compensation of stenographers in those courts, except so far as the subject
thereof is expressly regulated or provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure.
8. It does no affect the right of a prevailing party to recover the fees of
referees and witnesses and his other necessary disbursements upon the ref
erence of a claim against a decedent, as provided in those portions of the
Revised Statutes left unrepealed after this act takes effect.
9. Except as otherwise prescribed in section two of this act, the repeal of
any provision of the existing laws, which has been amended by a subsequent
provision of those laws, not expressly repealed by this act, does not affect the
subsequent provision.
10. The repeal of any provision of the existing laws does not revive any law
repealed by the latter.
11. The repeal of a law heretofore repealed is not to be construed as a
declaration or implication that the repealed law has been in force at any time
subsequent to the former repeal.
12. The repeal of a portion of a law is not to be construed as reviving any
other portion of that law which has been expressly or impliedly repealed by
a law subsequently enacted.
13. Where a provision of the existing laws, incorporated into or adopted
or otherwise referred to in, any other provision of the existing laws remaining
in force after this act takes effect, is repealed the former provision, never
theless, remains in force for the purpose for which it is so referred to, and
for no other ; except that where it has been revised in, and made a part of,
the Code of Civil Procedure, the reference is to be construed as applying to
the appropriate provision so revised.
14. The repeal of any of the existing laws creating or otherwise relating to
an office or employment where the same or a corresponding office or employ
ment is provided for or recognized in the Code of Civil Procedure, or in any
other of the existing laws remaining unrepealed after this act takes effect,
does not create a vacancy therein, nor does such repeal, except as otherwise
prescribed in subdivision fifty-fifth of section first of this act, abolish, dimin
ish or otherwise affect the salary, fees or other compensation of the incum
bent, or the time or manner of the payment thereof, or the fund out of which,
or officer by whom they are paid, as regulated by the laws so repealed, or
the laws remaining unrepealed ; nor does this act affect any provision of the
existing laws, which requires, in the city of New York, a party filing a first
note of issue of fact in the supreme court or a superia* city court to pay any
sum to the clerk ; or which relates to the accounting for, application and dis
position of, the sums so paid.
§ 4. The term " existing laws," as used in this act, designates the statutes
of the State remaining unrepealed on the day before this act takes effect.
§ 5. This act shall take effect on the first day of September, eighteen
hundred and eighty.
Nbw York,
Office State
of the of
Secretary
of State. )fss :
I have compared the preceding with the original law on file in this office, and do hereby
certify that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of said original
law.
JOSEPH B. CARR,
Secretary of State.
§ 1. Chapter one hundred and seventy-eight of the laws of eighteen
hundred and eighty, entitled "An act supplemental to the Code of Civil
Procedure," shall not be printed or published for the use of the State, or of
any State department, or State officer, or otherwise in any manner, at the
expense of the State, except in the volumes containing the laws of this session
of the Legislature, to be printed and published as prescribed by law ; nor
shall it be printed or published in any newspaper at the expense of the
State, or of any county, but the same and the sections amended by said
act, and also any other acts which may be passed at this session amending
the same, shall be printed and published in a separate volume of the session
laws, which shall contain no other laws. The said supplemental act shall be
separately indexed at the end of the said volume, but the other act or acts
in the said volume shall not be indexed.

L. 1881, CH. 40.
AN ACT in relation to surrogates' courts.
Passed March 18, 1881.
§ 1. When an appeal shall be or has been been taken after the first day
of September, eighteen hundred and eighty, from any order, decree or
determination made or rendered in a surrogate's court, in any matter or pro
ceeding commenced before the first day of September, eighteen hundred
and eighty, the said appeal shall be heard upon a case to be made and set
tled, as provided by section two thousand five hundred and seventy-six of
the Code of Civil Procedure ; but if on any such appeal taken before the
passage of this act the case has been made and settled, or the appeal per
fected according to and in conformity with the laws and practice regulating
appeals from orders, sentences or decrees of surrogates' courts in force in
the state on the thirty-first day of August, eighteen hundred and eighty,
then such appeals and settlement of the case thereon shall be valid and such
appeals shall be heard and decided in conformity to the laws and practice
regulating appeals from orders, sentences and decrees of surrogates' courts
in force in this state on the thirty-first day of August, eighteen hundred
and eighty.
§ 2. This act shall take effect immediately.

