THE CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE, 
CHAPTER 448, LAWS OF 1876, 
AS.AMENDED BYOHAPTERS416AND422,LAWSOF1877,AND
AS FURTHER AMENDED BY CHAPTERS 63, 299 AND 
166 OF THE LAWS OF 1878, AND CHAPTERS
163, 210, 414 AND 542 OF THE LAWS OF 1879. 
AN ACT RELATING TO COURTS, OFHCERS OF JUSTICE, AND CIVIL
PROCEEDINGS. 
TITLE l.-TIIB COURTS OP THB BTATB; THEIR GENERAL POWERS AND
ATTRIBUTES, AND GENERAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO
THB BXBRCISB THBREOP. 
TITLE 11.-PROVISIONB OP GENERAL APPLICATION, RELATlNG TO THB
JUDGBS, AND CERTAIN OTHER OPFICER8 OJ.I' THE COURTS. 
ARTJCLB 1. Enumeration and classiffca.tion.
2. General powers and attributes of the courts. 
3. Miscellaneous provisiona relating to the sittings of the court& 
8BCTIOlf 1. Courts. 
Passed June 2, 1876; three-fifths being present. 
TM People of tM State of Ne10 York, represen,f,ed in 8erud6 and
Anembly, do enact as /oUmDs: 
CHAPTER I. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO COURTS, AND THE
MEMBERS· AND OFFICERS THEREOF. 
TITLE I. 
TM ooulrts of the State ; their g8n(Yl'a1 pmt)(!l'S and attributes, and general
regulations pertaining to the exerci.86 thereof. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
ElroMBRA.TiOlf .A.ND CL.l.88.lYICATIOlf. 
2. Courts of record enumerated. 
a. Courts not of record.
4. General provision aa to jurisdiction, etc. 
§ 1. The courts referred to in this act, are enumerated in the coar111.
next two sections. 
§ 2. Each of the following courts of the State is a court of record:
1. The court for the trial of impeachments.
2. The court of appeals.
8. The supreme court.
4. A circuit court in each county.
5. A court of oyer and terminer in each county.
6. The court of common pleas for the city and county of 
New York.
7. The superior court of the city of New York.
8. The court of general sessions of the peace in and for the 
city and county of New York.
9. The superior court of Buffalo. 
10. The city court of Brooklyn.
11. The city court of Long Island city.
12. The city court of Yonkers.
18. A county court in each county, except New York.
14. A court of sessions in each county, except New York.
15. The marine court oft.he city of New York.
16. The mayor's court of the city of Hudson.
17. The recorder's court of the city of Utica.
18. The recorder's court of the city of Oswego.
19. The justices' court of the city of Albany. 
20. A surrogate's court in each county.
§ 3. Each of the following courts of the State is a court not of record: 
1. Courts of justices of the peace in each town, and in certain
cities and villages. 
2. Courts of special sessions of the peace in each town, and in
certain cities and villages. 
S. The district courts in the city of New York.
4. The police courts in certain cities and villages.
!t The justices' court of the city of Troy.
6. The municipal court of the city of Rochester. 
§ 4. Each of those courts shall continue to exercise the jurisdiction
and powers now vested in it by law, according to the course and prac­
tice of the court, except as otherwise prescribed in this act. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
G:mnnu.L PoWBBS AlfD AT'l'llIBUTBB ol' THB CoUllTI. 
8110T1o!'f Ii. The Bittings of courts to be public.
6. Courts not to Bit on Sunday. except in epecfRl eases.
7. General powers of courts of record.
8. Criminal contempts defined.
9. Punishment for criminal contempts. 
10. Such contempts in view of court; bow punished, etc.
11. Requisites of commitment.
12. Preceding sections limited.
18. Indictment, if offense is indictable.
14. Contempts punishable civilly. 
15. No pumsbment for non-payment of interlooutoey coeta. 
16. Id. ; money due upon a contract..
17. Rules of court.e of record, bow made and revised.
18. Rules to be published.
19. Courie to order calendar printed.
io. Expense to be & county charge.
il. Certain papers may be destroyed. 
n. Writs, etc., in name of the people, and In English J &bbrevi&Uou. 
ta. Id. ; teete and return. 
M. Id.; to be subecl'ibed or indorsed. When error, etc., not to vitiate.
i5. No discontinuance by reason of vacancy, etc. 
26. In New York. one judge may continue proceedings commenced before
another. 
~- Provisions respecting the llea.ls of court.a.
28. Sea.ls of counties. 
99. What is a sufficient seali~.
SO. New sea.Is. 
§ 5. The sittings of every court within this St.ate shall be public, 
and every citizen may freely attend the same, except that in all proeeedings and trials in cases for divorce, on account of adultery, seduc- 
ti.on, abortion, rape, assault with intent to commit rape, criminal
conversation and bastardy, the court may, in its discretion, exclude
therefrom all persons who are not directly interested therein, excepting 
jurors, witnesses and officers of the court.
§ 6. A. court shall not be opened, or transact any business on Sun- 
day, except to receive a. verdict or dischar__g~ _ _a j~~I:· An adjournment
of a court on Saturday, unless made after 8, cause has been committed 
to a jury, must be to some other day than Sunday. !!~ this section
does not 'prevent the exercise of the jurisdiction of a magistrate, where
it is necessary to preserve the peace, or, in a criminal case, to arrest,
commit or discharge a person charged with an offense. 
§ 7. A. court of record has power :
1. Toissne a subpoena, requiring the attend.a.nee of a personfound in 
the State, to testify in a cause pending in that court; subject, however, 
to the limitations, prescribed by law, with respect to the portion of the
State, in which the process of a local court of record may be served. 
2. To administer an oath to a witness, in the exercise of the powers
and duties of the court. 
3. To devise and make new process and forms of proceedings, neces
sary to carry into effect the powers and jurisdiction possessed by it. 
§ 8. A. court of_Jecor~ has power to punish for a criminal contempt,
a persou gt!ilty of either ot the following acts, and no others: 
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior, committed during
its sitting, in its immediate view and presence, and directly tending 
to interrupt its proceedings, or to impair the respect due to its authority.
2. Breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbance, directly tending 
to interrupt its proceedings.
3. Wilful disobedience to its lawful mandate. 
4. Resistance willfully offered to its lawful mandate.
5. Contumacious and unlawful refusal to be sworn as a witness; or, 
after being swom, to answer any legal and proper interrogatory.
6. Publication of a false, or grossly inaccurate report or its proceed­ 
ings. But a court cannot punish as a. contempt, the publication of a
true, full, and fair report of a trial, argument, decision, or other proceeding therein. · 
§ 9. Punishment for a contempt, specified in the last section, may
be by fine, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, or by imprison- 
ment, not exceeding tbir.tr-d~~' in the jail of the county where the
court is sitting, or both, in the discretion of the court. Where a person 
is committed to jail, for the non-payment of such a fine, he must be 
discharged at the expiration of thirty days; but where be is also committed for a definite time, the thirty days must be computed from the
expiration of the definite time. 
§ 10. Such a. contempt, committed in the immediate view and
presence of the court, may bepunished ttumma.rily; when not so committed, the party charged must be notified of the accusation, and have 
IL TP.asonable time to make a defense. 
• · 
§ 11. Where a person iseommitted for such a contempt, t£e particular
ci~cnmstances of his offense must be set forth in the man ate or-com- 
mitment,
§ 12. The last four seetione do not extend to a special proceeding to 
punish a person, in a case specified in section fourteen of this act.
§ 13. Punishment for a contempt, as prescribed in this article, does 
ll.O.t___fillr __ !I-!!. Indictment for the same offense; but where a person
who has b~en so punished· is convicted·on such· an indictment, the court, 
in sentencing him, must take into consideration the previous punish­
men t. 
§ 14. · A court of record has power·to punish, by fine and imprison­
ment, or either, a neglect or violation of duty, or other misconduct, by
which a right or remedy of a party to a civil action or special proceed­ 
ing, pending in the court may be defeated, impaired, impeded, or
prejudiced, in either of the following cases: 
1. An attorney, counsellor, clerk, sheriff', coroner, or other person, in
any manner duly selected or appointed to 'perform a judicial or
ministerial service, for a misbehavior in his office or trust, or for a
willful neglect or violation of duty therein; or for disobedience kt a
lawful mandate of the court, or of a judge thereof, or of an officer
authorized to perform the duties of such a judge. 
II 
2. A party to the action or special proceeding, for putting in fictitious
bail or a fictitious surety, or for any deceit or abuse· of a mandate or
proceeding of the court. 
3. A party to the action or special proceeding, an attorney, counsellor,
or other person, for the non-payment of a sum of money, ordered or
adjudged by the court to be paid, in a case where by law execution
cannot be awarded for the collection of such sum; or for any other
disobedience to a lawful mandate of the court. 
4. A person, for assuming to be an attorney or counsellor, or other
officer of the court, and acting as such without authority ; for rescuing
any property or person in the custody of an officer, by virtue of & 
mandate of the court; for unlawfully detaining, or fraudulently and
willfully preventing, or disabling from attending or testifying, a wit­ 
BeSB,-or a. part.y to the.action .or special proceeding, while going to, 
l"emainieg at, or returning from, the sitting where it is noticed for trial
or hearing; and for any other unlawful interference with the proceed­
ings therein. 
5. A person s11bp&me.ed as· a witnel!S, for refusing or neglecting to
obey, the i8U'bpama, or to attend, or to be · sworn, or to answer as a 
witness.
6. A person duly·notified to:attend as-a juror, at a term of the court, 
fo.r impropeYly conversing with a party to an action or special pro­
ooeding, to he tried at that term, or with any other person, in. relation
to the merits of that action or special proceeding: or for receiving a
communic&tion from any, person, in relation to the merits of such an
action or-speeial proceeding, without, immediately disclosing the same
to the court. 
7 •. An inferior magistrate,.or a judge or other officer of an inferior
court, for proceeding, contruy to law,.in a cause or matter, which bas
been zemoved from hie jurisdiction to the court inflicting the punish­
ment ; · or for duiobeaieace to a. lawful order or other mandate of the 
latter court .
. 8. · In any other oaser ·Whel'e &11 attachment or any other proceeding 
.to plUliBb. for ,a contempt, bas been usually adopted and practiced in a 
court of record, to enforce a ei ViJ remedy or a party to an action or
special proceeding in that court or to protect the right or a party. 
§ 15. But a person shall not be arrested or imprisoned, for the nonpayment of costs, awarded otherwise than by a final judgment, or a 
final order made in a special proceeding instituted by -~tate writ,
except where an attorney, counsellor, or other officer of the conrt, is 
ordered to pay costs for misconduct as such, or a witness is ordered to 
pay costs on au attachment for non-attendance.
§ 16. Except in a case where it is otherwise specially prescribed by 
law, a persou shall not be arrested or imprisoned for disobedience to a
iudgmeut or order, requiring the payment of mouey due upon a contract,
express or implied, or as damages for non-performance of a contract. 
§ 17. The general term justices of'the supreme court, and the chief
judges of the superior city courts, must meet in couveution, at the 
capitol, in the city of Albany, on the first Wednesday of October, 
eighteen hundred and seventy-seven; and every second year thereafter, 
The convention must establish rules of practice, not inconsistent with
this act, which shall be binding upon all courts of record, except the
court for the trial of impeachments and the court of appeals. A ma- 
jority of the members of the convention constitute a quorum. The
rules thus established are styled in this act, "t!ie _general rules o( 
mactice." 
§ 18. A rule thus established, or a general rule or order of the court
of appeals, does not take effect, until it bas been published in the 
n~wspaper published at Albany, in which legal notices are required
by law to be published, QTl~~ in eacl.!__~~e~ _for three successive weeks, 
§ 19. The supreme court, a. superior city court, or a county court may,
from time to time, by order, require the clerk to cause to be printed
for the use of the members and officers thereof, the necessary copies of
the calendar of causes, prepared for a term of the court, or, in the
supreme court, for the circuit court. But this section does not apply 
io the city and county of New York. ·
§ 20. The expense of printing the copies of the calendar for a term, 
shall be a charge upon the county in which the term is held; and
mnst be audited, allowed, and paid, by the board of supervisors thereof,
in like manner as other contingent county charges. 
§ 21. A superior city court may, from time to time, by an order
made at general term, direct the clerk of the court, and the supreme 
court, at general term, may, by a like order, direct a. county clerk, to 
destroy any of the following papers, now filed, or hereafter to be filed
in his office, which the court deems to have become useless, to wit:
pleadings, or copies of pleadings furnished for the use of the court ; 
jury panels ; returns of inferior courts, which have been embodied in
judgment-records or judgment-rolls; innkeepers' licenses, ten yea.rs 
old; and returns of election district canvassers, twenty years old, which
have been copied, pnrsi1ant to law~mloooolis" preserved 111 b1s office. 
Bot this provision does not anthorise the destruction of a judgmeutroll, or a paper incorporated or necessary to be Incorporated into a 
judgment-roll.
§ 22. Except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, a 
writ or other process must be in the name of the people of the State,
aud each Writ, process, record, pleading or Other proceeding in a court, 
or before an officer; must be in the English language, and, unless it. i&
oral, made out on paper or parchment, in a fair legible character, in 
wordb at length, and not- abbreviated. But the proper and known 
names of process, and technical words, may be expressed in appropriate language, as now is, and heretofore bas been customary; such
abbrev~t_io_!l~ _as are now commonly employed in the English language
may be used ; and numbers may be expressed by Arabic figures, or
Roman numerals, in the customary manner. 
§ 23. A writ or other process, issued out of a court of record, must
be tested, except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, in 
the name of a judge of the court, on any day; must be returnable
within the time prescribed by law; or, if no time is prescribed by law,
within the time fixed by the court, and therein specified for that
purpose; and, when returnable, must, together with the return thereto,
be filed with the clerk, unless otherwise specially prescribed by law. 
§ 24. A writ or other process, issued out of a court of record, must,
before the delivery thereof to an officer to be executed, be subscribed
or indorsed with the name of the officer by whom, or by whose direction 1t was granted, or the attorney__ for the party, or the person at
whose instance it was issued. A writ or other process thus subscribed 
or iudorsed, is not void or voidable, by reason of having no seal or a
Wl'ong seal thereon, or of any mistake or omission in the teste thereof,
or in the name of the clerk, unless it was issued by special order of
the court. 
§ 25. An action or special proceeding, civil or criminal, in a court of
record, is not discontinued by a vacancy or change in the judges of the
court, or by the re-election or re-appointment of a. judge; but it must
be continued, heard and determined, by the court, as constituted at
the time of the hearing or determination. After a judge is out of office,
he may settle a. case or exceptions, or make any return of proceedings, 
had before him while he was in office, and may be compelled so to do
by the court iu which the action or special proceeding is pending. 
§ 26. In the city and county of New York, a. special proceeding
instituted before a judge of a court of record, or a proceediug com­
menced before a judge of the court, out. of court, in an action or special
proceeding pending in a. court of record, may be continued from time
to time, before one or more other judges of the same court, with like
effect, as if it bad been instituted or commenced before the judge, who
last hears the same. 
§ 27. The seal of the court of appeals, and of each other court of
record in the State, now in use, shall continue to be the seal of the
court in which it is in use : and the seal kept by the county clerk
of each county, shall continue to be the seal of the supreme court, of the
circuit court, of the court of oyer and terminer, in that couuty, and,
except in the city and county of New York, of the county court and
court of sessions, in that county. The seal of the surrogate of each
county shall continue to be the seal of the surrogate's court of that
county, and must be used as such by an officer, who discharges the
duties of the surrogate. A description of each of the seals, specified in
this section, must be deposited and recorded in the office of the Secre­
tary of State, unless it has already been done ; and must remain of 
record.
§ 28. The seal kept by a county clerk, as prescribed in the last section, shall continue to be the seal of the county, and must be used
by him where he is required to use an official seal. 
§ 29. The seal of a court may be affixed, by making an impression
directly upon the paper. 
§ 80. When the seal of a court is so injured, that it cannot be con·
veniently used, the court must cause it to be destroyed; and when file 
1111&1 of a court is lost or destroyed, the court must cause a. new seal to 
1>e made, similar in all respects to the former seal, which shall become
tae seal of the court. The expense of a. new seal for a county clerk, 
a surrogate's court, or a local court in a city, must be paid 88 part of 
the contingent expenses of the county or of the court, 88 the case
:requires. The expense of a new seal for any other court musi be paid 
from the State treasury. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
1'18oJo.I.AlrBooa PltoVI810Jr8 BBilTUfG TO TIIB SITTINGS 071 THB CouaTS. 
8-mo:s 81. Rooms, fuel, ete., bow furnished.
82. No liquors, etc., to be sold in court-bowie.
83. Penalty.
Sf. Adjournment of court to a future day.
86. Adjournment to next. day, jud~ not. appearing.
86. When court to be adjourned without day.
87. Causes tried elsewhere than at court-house.
SS. Governor may change place f'or holding courts of record.
89. Such appointment, ete., to be recorded and published.
40. Judge may change place for holding court of record •
.fl. Actual aession may be adjourned to another place •
.f2. Place for holding cottrt.s in city of New York, how changed .
.f3. When court-houee is unfit to hold court, another place to be appointed.
44. No action or special proceeding abated, etc., by failure or adjourn- 
ment of' court. 45. Trial once commenced may be continued beyond term. 
§ 81. Except where other provision is made therefore by law, the 
board of snpetxiftOl'.8 of eaeh county must provide each court of
record, appointed to be held therein, with proper and convenient rooms
and furniture, together with attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery,
suitable and sufficient for the transaction of its busiuess. If the super- 
visoTS neglect 80 to do, the court may order the sheriff' to make the
requisite provision ; and the expense incurred by him in carrying the
order into effect, when certified by the court, is a county charge. 
§ 32. Strong, spirituous, or fermented liquor, or wine, shall not, on
any pretense whatever, be sold within a building established as a 
court-house for holding courts of record, while such a court is sitting
therein • 
§ 83. A person violating the last section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 84. A general, special, or trial term of a court of record may be 
adjourned, from day to day, or to a specified future day, by an entry
in the minutes. Jurors may be drawn for, and notified to attend a 
term 80 adjourned, and causes may be noticed for trial thereat, as if it 
was held by original appointment. Any jud~e of the court may 80 
adjourn a term thereof, in the absence of a sufficient number of judges 
to hold the term.
§ 35. If a judge, authorized to bold a term of a court, does not come 
to the place, where the term is appointed to be held, before four o'clock 
in the afternoon of the day 80 appointed, the sheriff' or clerk must then
open the term, and forthwith adjourn it to nine o'clock in the morning 
of the next day. If such a judge attend by four o'clock, in the afternoon
of tl,e second day, he must open the term ; otherwise the sheriff or the 
clt!rk wll.8t adjourn it without day. 
§ 86. If, before four o'clock oft.he second day, the sheriff or the c101l'k
receives from a judge, authorized to hold the term, a. written direction . 
to adjourn the term to a future day certain, he must. adjourn it accord- .
ingly, instead of adjourning it as prescribed in the last section. The . 
direction must be entered in the minutes as an order.
§ 87. The parties to an action or special proceeding, pending in & 
court of record, may, with the consent of the judge who is to try or
hear it, without a jury, stipulate in writing, that it shall be tried or
heard and determined, elsewhere than at the court-house. The stipu­ 
lation must specify the place of trial or hearing, and must be filed in
the office of the clerk; and the trial or bearing must be brought on
upon the usual notice, unless otherwise provided in the stipulation. 
§ 38. If the Governor deems it requisite, by reason of war, pesfilence,
or other public calamity, or the danger thereof, that the next ensuing
term, or the next ensuing adjourned sitting, of the court of appeals, or
that the next ensuing term of any other court of record, appointed to
be held elsewhere than in the city of New York, should be held at & 
place, other than that where it is appointed to be held, he may, by
proclamation, appoint a different place within its district, for the
holding thereof; and at any time thereafter he may revoke the appoint­
ment, and appoint another place, or leave the term to be held at the
place where it would have been held, but for his appointment, 
§ 89. Such an appointment or revocation must be under the hand
of the Governor, and filed in the office of the Secretary of State; it
must be published in such newspapers and for such time, as the
Governor directs ; and the expense of the publication m\lSt be paid out
of the State treasury. 
§ 40. If a malignant, contagious, or epidemic disease exists at the
place, where a term of a court of record is appointed to be held, and 
the Governor has not appointed, under the last two sections, another
place to hold the same, the judge, or, if there are two or more, the
chief or presiding judge, designated to hold the term, may, by order,
direct the term to be held at another place, designated by him, within,
the district for which it is to be held. The order must be forthwith
filed, in the office of the clerk of the county. where the term was to be
held, and published in such newspapers, and for such a time, as the
judge directs therein; and therea.fter the Governor shall not appoint
another place, for holding that term. 
§ 41. If, during the actual session of a term of a court of record, the
judge, or a majority of. the judges, holding the same, deem it inex­
pedient, by reason of war, pesfilence or other public calamity, or the
danger thereof, or for want of suitable accommodation, that the term 
should be continued at the place where it is then being held, the court
may, by order, adjourn the term, to be held at any other time and place
within its di.strict. Notice of such an adjournment must be given, as
the court directs by the order. 
§ 42. The mayor, or, in case of his absence, or other disability, the
recorder of the city of New York, may, by proclamation, direct that 
the next ensuing term of any court, other than .the court of appeals,
appointed to be held in that city, shall be held in any building, within 
the city of New York, other than the building where the same i$
regularly to be held, if, in his opinion, war, pesfilence, or other public ca­
lamity, or the danger thereof, or the destruction or injnry of the building,
or the want of suitable accommodation, renders it necessary that some
other place should be selected. The proclamation must be published
in two or more daily newspapers, published in the city of New York. 
§ 43. "If the building established as a court-house in any other
county is destroyed, or is, for any cause, unsafe, inconvenient, or unfit
for holding court therein, the connty judge of the county may, by an 
order filed in the office of the clerk of the county, appoint another
buildin~ in the vicinity for temporarily holding courts. The building 
so appointed becomes the court-house oft.he county, for the time being; 
and business transacted therein has the same effect, as if it was
transacted at the usual place. 
§ 44. When a term of court fails or is adjourned, or the time or place
of holding the same is changed, as prescribed in this chapter, an 
action, special proceeding, writ, process, recognizance, or other proceeding, civil or criminal, returnable, or to be heard or tried, at that 
term, is not abated, discontinued, or rendere~ void thereby ; but all 
persons are bound to appear, and all proceedmgs mnst be had, at the
time and place to which the term is adjourned or changed, or, if it
fails, at the next term, with like effect as if the term was held, as
ori_gina.lly appointed. 
§ 45. Where the trial or hearing of an issue of fact, joined in an
action or special proceeding, civil or criminal, bas been commenced at 
a term of a court of record, it may, nothwithstanding the expiration of
the time appointed for the term to continue, be continued to the completion thereof; including, if the cause is tried by a jury, all proceedmgs taken therein until the actual discharge of the jury ; or, if it is
tried by the court without a jury, until it is finally submitted for a
decision upon the merits. 
TITLE II. 
P,-cn,i,ions of general, application, relating to the judges, and certain otlwr
olficers of t!UJ courts. 
AlmOLB 1. General powers, duties, liabilities, and dieabilities ot judges, and
offlcere acting judicially. 
2. Attorneys and counsellors at law.
8. Genes-al provisions eoneeming certain ministerial officers, connected 
with the administration or justice; and special provisions concerning
officere of that description, attached to two or more court& 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
GDDil P.oWBBS, DV'rlu,. WBJLITJBB, .A.ND D.1UB1LITIB8 oi, Juoou, ill> On1CJ1111
-'.CTIJrG JUI>IC~Y. 
81:0'ttolf 46. Jndge not to trit where he is a party, etc., or has not heard argument.
47. Judge not to be interested in costs.
48. Di.N.bility of judge in certain appeals.
49. Judge or judge's partner not to practice in bis court.
50. Judge's partner or clerk not to practice before him; judge not to 
practice in a cause which has been before him.
Gl. Ju,lge not to take te~ for advice in certain cases.
52. Substitution or one officer for another in special proceeding.
53. Proceedings before substituted officer.
54. Judge to file ce11.i6cate of age, etc. 
§ 46. A judge shall not sit as !uch i~, or take an~ part _in the
decision of, a cause or matter to which he 18 a party, or m which he 
as en a torney or counse , or m w ie e 1e mtereste , or m w e 
he would be excluded from being a juror, by reason of consanguinity
or affinity to either of the parties. A judge, other than a iudge of the 
court of appeals, shall not decide or take part in the decision of a
question, which was argued orally in the court, when he was not
present and sitting therein as a judge. 
§ 47. A judge shall not, directly or indirectly, be interested in the 
!;!~~inlnter- costs of an actiou or special proceeding, brought before him, or in a 
court of which he is, or is entif·lf}d to act as a member, except an action 
or a special proceeding to ~hich he is & party, or in which he ia 
interested. · 
§ 48. Where an appeal has been taken to a. court of sessions, in
which a town in the county is interested, ~ justice o_f _the peace, who is 
a resident of that town, sht..U not sit as a justice of sessions, upon the 
hearing of the appeal. Except as specified in this section, a judge
of a. court of record is not disqualifled, from hearing or deciding an
action or special proceeding, matter, or question, by reason of bis being
a. resident or a tax-payer of a town, village, city, or county, interested
therein • 
§ 49. A judge shall not practice or act as an attorney or counsellor,
in a court of which he is, or is entitled to act as a member, or in &
cause originating in that court. A law partner of, or person connected
in law business with a judge, shall not practice or act as an attorney
or counsellor, in a court, of which the judge is, or is entitled to act as a
member, or in a cause originating in that court; except where the
latter is a member of a court, ex-officio, and does not officiate or take
part, as a member of that court, in any of the proceedings therein.
An ex-officio judge shall not, directly or indirectly, be interested in 
the costs, or the compensation of an &ttomey or counsellor, in the court
f hi h h . fli , , d 
too w IC e 18 ex-o c10 a JU ge.
§ 50. The law partner or clerk of a judge shall not practice before 
him, as attorney or counsellor in any cause, or be employed in any
cause 1Yhich originated before him. A judge shall not act as attorney 
or counsellor in any action or special proceeding, which has been before
him in his official character . 
§ 51. A judge or other judicial officer, shall not demand or receive a
fee or other compensation, for giving his advice in a matter or thing 
pending before him, or which he has reason to believe will be brought
before him for decision ; or for preparing a paper or other proceeding,
relating to such a matter or thing ; exc~p_t a. justice of the peace, in a
case where a fee is expressly allowed to him by la.w. 
§ 52. In case· of the death, sickness, resignation, removal from office,
absence from the county, or other disability of an officer, before whom 
a special proceeding has been instituted, where no express provision is
made by law for the continuance thereof, it may be continued before 
the officer's successor, or any other officer residin~ in the same county,
before whom it might have been originally instituted; or, if there is
no such officer in the same county, before au officer in an adjoining 
county, who would originally have had jurisdiction of the subject­ 
matter, if it had occurred or existed in the latter county .
§ 53. At the time and place specified in a notice or order, for a party 
to appear, or for any other proceeding to be taken, or at the time and
place specified in the notice to be given, as prescribed iu this section,
the officer substituted as prescribed in the last section, or in any other
provision of law, to continue a. special proceeding instituted before 
another, may act, with respect to the special proceeding, as if it had
been originally institnted before him. Bnt a proceeding shall not be
taken before a substituted officer, at a time or place, other than that
specified in the original notice or order, until notice of the substitution,
and of the time and place appointed for the proceeding to be taken,
has been given, either by personal service or by publication, in such
manner and for such time as the substituted officer directs, to each party
who may be effected* thereby, and who bas not appeared before either 
officer. Where, after a bearing has been commenced, it is adjourned! 
to the next judicial day, each day to which it is so adjourned, is re­
garded, for the purposes of this section, as the day specified in the
original notice or order, or in the notice to appear before the substituted
officer, as the caee requires. 
§ 54. A judge of a court of record must, within ten days after he
enters on the duties of his office, make and sign a certificate, stating 
bis age, and the time when his official term will expire, either by completion of a full term, or by reason of the disability of age, prescribed
m the Constitution. The certificate must be filed in the office of the
Secretary of State, who must keep a record of the time of the com­
mencement and termination of the official term, of each judge of a
court of record. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
AT1'0&1'BY8 ilD 0oUNSBLLOB8 .lT Llw. 
tmcrJo• 55. Party mar appea.r in ~ or by attorney. 
56 Examination and admission ot attorneys.
57. Rules, bow changed. 
58. Exemptions to graduates of certain la.w schools.
59. Attorney's oath ot office, and certificate ot admiselon.
60. Attorneys residing in adjoining States. . 
61. Clerks, etc., not to practice.
62. lei. J as to sheriff, etc. 
63. None but attorneys to practice in New York and Kings counties.
64. Penalty for violation, or suffering violation ot last section.
65. Death or disability of a.ttomey; proceedings thereupon.
66 Attorney or counsel's compensation. 
67. Removal or suspension for malpractice, etc.
68. Must be on notice. 
69. Removal or suspension, how to operate.
'70. Punishment for deceit, etc.
'71. Id. ; for willful delay of action.
'72. Attomey not to lend his name.
'13. Attorney not to buy claim,
'14. Certain loans prohibited. 
75. Penalty.
76. Limitation of preceding sections.
'17. Same rule when party prosecutes in pereon. 
'18. Partner ot district atwrney, etc., not to defend proeecntions.
'79. Attorney not to defend when he has been public proeeeutor. 
80. Penalty.
Sl. Limitation of provisions. 
§ 55. A party to a civil action, who is of full age, may prosecute or
defend the same in person or by attorney, at his election --111lle.e8_ he
has been judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs.
Each provision of this act, relating to the conduct of an action, 
wherein the attorney for the party is mentioned, includes a party 
p!08etnting or defending in person; -unless otherwise specially pre­
scribed therein, or unless that construction is manifestly repugnant 
to the context. If a party has an attom~ in the action, he cannot
appear to a.ct in person, where an attorney may appear or act, either
by special provision of law, or by the course and practice of the court. 
§ 56. A male citizen of the State, of full age, hereafter applying to
be admitted to practice as an attorney or counsellor, in the courts of 
record of the State, must be examined at a general term of the supreme
court, by the justices holding the term, or a committee appointed by
them. If it is found that be bas complied with the rules, established
by the court of appeals for that purpose, and he is approved, by the
justices holding the term, for his good character and learning, the
court must direct an order to be entered, stating those facts, and
admitting him to practice as an attorney and counsellor, in all the
courts of record of the State. Thereupon, after qualifying, as pre­
scribed in section fifty-nine of this act, he is entitled to practice
accordingly;· subject, nevertheless, to suspension or removal from
office, as prescribed by law. · 
§ 57. The rules established by the court of appeals, touching the
admission of attorneys and · counsellors to practice in the courts of 
record of the State, shall not be changed or amended, except by a.
majority of the judges of that court. A copy of each amendment of
those rules must, within five days after it is adopted, be filed in the
office of the Secretary of State; who must transmit a printed copy
thereof to the clerk ol each county, and to the presiding justice of the
supreme court, in each judicial department, and also eause the same to
be published, in the next ensuing volume of the session laws. 
§ 58. Nothing contained in tlie last two sections prevents the court
of appeals from dispensing, in the rules established by it, with the
whole or any part of the stated period of clerkship, required from an
applicant, or with an examination, where the applicant is a graduate
of the Albany law school, the law department of Union University, or of
the law department of the university of the city ot New York, or of the
law school of Columbia College, or of the law department of Hamilton
College, and produces his diploma upon his application for admission • 
§ 59. Each person, admitted as prescribed in the last three sections,
must, upon bis admission, take the Constitutional oathof office in open
court, and subscribe the same in & roll or book, to be kept in the 
supreme court for that purpose. The clerk, upou the payment of the
fees allowed by law, must deliver to the person admitted, a certificate
under his band and official seal, stating tho.t such person baa been so
admitted, and that be has taken and subscribed the Constitutional oath
of office, as prescribed iu this section. 
§ 60. A person, regularly admitted to practice &8 attorney and conn­
seller, m the courts of record of the State, whose office for the trans­ 
action of law business , is within the State, may practice as such
attorney or counsellor, although be resides in an adjoming State. But 
service of a paper, which might be made upon him at his residence,
if be· was a resident of the State, may be made upon him, by deposit­
ing the paper in a post-office in the ei.ty or town where his office is
located, properlyinclosed in a postpaid wrapper, directed to him at his 
office. A service thus made is erJtvalent to ~rsonal service 'fon him.
§ 61. The clerk, depuiy-cfer , or-specinI deputy-clerk o a court 
shall not, during his continuance in office, practice as attorney or counsellor in that court. · 
§ 62. Asberiff7' und.er..sherift',.deputy--sheriff',sherift"sclerk,oonstable,
-eoroDe-r, crier, OJI attendant of a court, shall not, during his continuance 
in office, practice as an attorney or counsellor in any court. 
§ 63. A person shall not ...aak_or receive, directly or Indirectly, compenBMion for appearing as. attorney in a court in the city and county 
of New-York, or in the county of Kings, or make it a business to 
practice.as an attorney in a court in either of those counties, unless he 
has been regularly admitted to practice as an attorney or counsellor in
-tbe courts of -record of the State.
§ 64. A person who violates the last section is guiay of a misde- 
meanor,· and shall bepunished by imprisonment in the oounty jail, not
exceeding one m.onth,.or by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars, 
'Or more tnan two hundred and fifty dollars, or by both such fine and
imprisonm.ent. . A judge or justice of the peace, within the city and 
county of New Yo:rk, or the county of Kings,. who knowingly permits 
i& practice in bis court, a. person w.ho has not been regularly admitted
to practice in tbeeouets of. record of the State, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and. shallbe punished as prescribed i.n this section. But this
aad the last section do not apply to. & case, wh61'6 a person appears in
a cause to which he is a party. 
§ 65. If an . attorney- dies, is removed · or suspended, or otherwise 
. becomes disabled to act, at any time. before ,,t,udgment in an action, no
.further proceeding shall be taken in the ac,t\on, against the party for 
'whom he appeared, until thirty days aftert not.ice to appoint a.nother
attorney, has been given to that..party, ~-ther personally, or in such
other manner as thecourt directs. 
§ 66. The compensation of an attorney r counsellor for his services,
is govemed by ~ewwt, exprey SW im~, which is not restrained 
by law. From ;; eommeneement of &ntion or the service of an
answer containing a counterclaim, the attorney who appears for a 
party has & lien· upon his cli&nti's eause of a.ctioa-or counterclaim, which
-.attaches to a verdict, report, decision or judgment in bis client's favor
. and the proceeds thereof in whasoever bands they may come; and 
. cannot be a8"ooted. by any aettlement between the parties before or
after judgment. 
§ 67. An attorney or -eounsellor, who is gailt.y of any deceit, mal,practice, crime, or misdemeanor, may be suspended from practice, or 
removed from office, by the supreme· court, at a general term thereof.
§ 68. Before an attorney or eonnsellor is suspended or removed, as 
prescribed mthe last ser.tion,·a copy of the charges against him must
· be delivered to him, and he .must be allowed au opportunity of beiug 
heard in his defense.
§ 69. The suspension or removal of ·an attorney or eonnsellor, by the 
supreme court, operatee &8 -aeuspensiou or removal in every court of
'the State. 
§ 70. An attorney or eonneellor, · who· is guilty of any deceit or collu.sion, or eonsents to any deceit or collusion, with intent to deceive the 
'eonrt or a ·party, forfette, to the party injrrred by his deceit or collusion,
·treble damages. He is also guilty of. a misdemeanor. 
§ 71. An attorney or counsellor, who willfully delays his client's
eause, ·with a view to his own gain, or wilfnlly·receives money, _or an 
•allowance for or on· ~eount·o(·money, which he has not laid out or
become auswel'&ble·foP, forfeits to the parly injured, treble damages. 
§ 72. If an attorney knowingly permits a person, not being his genera.I law pa.nnel',Qt..._,. Jll~dt.Jn bis_o!fi_c~ to sue out a mandate, or to 
d , d d h h
prosecute or eren an action in his name, he, an t e person w o so 
uses his name, each forfeits to the party, against whom the mandate
has been sued out, or the action prosecuted or defended, the sum of
fifty dollars, to be recovered in an action. 
§ 73. An attorney or counsellor shall not, directly or indirectly, buy,
or be in any manner interested in buying, a bond, p!(>missfil"L!}_o~, 
qiJl C!f.~~ng_e, ~~~ or cilll.e[__ thing in action, wlih t~e in~nt
and for the purpose of bringing an action thereon. - - 
§ 74. An attorney or counsellor - shall not, by himself, or by or in the
name of another person, either before or after action brought, promise 
or give, or procure to be promised or given, a valuable consideration to 
any person, as an inducement to placing, or in consideration of having
placed, in his bands, or in the hands of another person, a demand of
any kind, for the purpose of bringing an action thereon. ~t this sec­
tion does not apply to an agreement between attorneys and counsello~
or either, to divide between themselves the compensation to be receivep 
§ 75. An attorney or counsellor, who violates either of the last two sections, is guilty of a misdemeanor; and, on conviction thereof, shall
be punished accordingly, and must be removed from office by the su­ 
preme court.
§ 76. The last three sections do not prohibit the receipt, by an attor­ 
ney or counsellor, of a bond, promissory note, bill of exchange, book­
debt, or other thing in action, in payment for property sold, or for services actually rendered, or for a debt antecedently contracted; or from
buying or receiving a bill of exchange, draft, or other thing in action,
for the purpose of remittance, and without intent to violate either of 
those sections.
§ 77. The last four sections apply to a person prosecuting an action 
m person, who does an act, which an attorney or counsellor is therein
for bidden to do 
§ 78. An attorney or counsellor shall not, directly or indirectly, advise concerning, aid, or take any part in, the defense of an action or 
special proceeding, civil or criminal, brought, carried on, aided, advo­
cated, or prosecuted, as Attorney-General, district-attorney, or other 
public prosecutor, by a person with whom he is interested or connected,
either directly or indirectly, as a law partner; or take or receive, di­
rectly or indirectly, from a defendant therein, or other person, a fee,
gratuity, or reward, for or upon any cause, consideration, pretense,
understanding, or agreement whatever, either express or implied, hav­
in~ relation thereto, or to the prosecution or defense thereof. 
§ 79. An attorney or counsellor, who has brought, carried on, .aided,
advocated, or prosecuted, or bas been in anywise connected with, an 
action or special proceeding, civil or criminal, as Attorney-General,
district-attorney, or other public prosecutor, shall not, at any time there- 
after, directly or indirectly, advise concerning, aid, or take any part
in, the defense thereof; or take or receive, either directly or indirectly,
from a defendant therein, or other person, a fee, gratuity, or reward,
for or upon any cause, consideration, pretense, understanding, or agree­
ment, either express or implied, having relation thereto, or to the prose­
cution or defense thereof. 
§ 80. An attorney or counsellor, who violates either of the last two sections, is guilty of a misdemeanor; and, on conviction thereof, shall
be punished accordingly, and must be removed from office by the su­ 
preme court. 
§ 81. This article does not prohibit an attorney or counsellor from
defending himself in person, if prosecuted either civilly or criminally. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
GJDQJUL 'PROVISIONS COlfCBRlflNG OBllTAl1' MnnSTBRIJ.L 0FJ'ICBR8, OONnCTBD WITH
TBB ADXllfl8TRATIOlf 011' JUSTICB i J.lfD 8PBCIAL PROVISIONS CONCBRNINO 0.JrJ'IOBBB
01' THAT DKSCRtPTIOlf, ATTACHBD TO Two OB XOBB CouaTS. 
880'l'IO• 82. Qualifications of stenographer.
88. General duty of stenographer ; notes, when to be filed.
84. N otea, bow preserved ; when Wtitten out.
85. Stenographers to furnish gratuitously copies of proceedings, to judge.
86. To furnish like copies to parties, d.ist1ict-attorney and Attorney-Gen- 
eral ; compensation.
8'7. Theee sections applicable to &88istant stenographers.
88. Supervisors to provide for compensation, etc., of stenographers.
89. County clerk to appoint special deputy to attend courts.
90. County judge to appoint crier.
91. Clerk of Dutchess county to be crier in that county.
92. When sheriff", constable, etc .• to act as crier.
98. Attendants upon courts in New York city.
94. Interpreter for courts of record in Kings county.
95. Attenda.nte and meseentrers. how appointed in Kings county.
96. Duties of persons appointed under last section.
97. She1iff'. when directed, to require constables, etc., to attend courts.
98. Id., when not direeted,
99. Penalty for neglect of officer to at'tend court. 
§ 82. Each stenographer, specified in this act, is an officer of the
court or courts, for or by which be is appointed; and, before entering 
upon the discharge of his duties, must subscribe the Constitutional oath
of office, and file the same in the office of the clerk of the court, or, in
the supreme court, in the office of the clerk of the county where the term
lits, or the judge resides, by which or by whom he is appointed. A 
person shall not be appointed to the office of stenographer, unless he is 
skilled in the stenographic art.
§ 83. Each stenographer, specified in this act, must, under the di- 
rection of the judge, presiding at or holding the term or sitting which
he attends, take full stenographic notes o( the testimony, and of all 
other proceedings, in each cause tried or beard thereat, except when
the judge dispenees with his services in a particular cause, or with re- 
spect to a portion of the proceedings therein. The court, or a judge
thereof, may, in its or bis discretion, upon or without an application
for that purpose, make an order, directin~ the stenopapher to file with
the clerk, forthwith or within a specified time, the original stenographic
notes, taken upon a trial or bearing; whereupon the stenographer must
file the same accordingly. 
§ 84. The original stenographic notes, taken by a stenographer, are 
part of the proceediugs in the cause ; and, unless they are filed, pursnant to an order, made as prescribed in the last section, they must be 
carefully preserved by the stenographer, for two years after the trial
or bearing; at the expiration of which time he may destroy the same.
If the stenographer dies, or bis office becomes otherwise vacant, before
the expiration of that time, they must be delivered to his successor in
office, to be held by him with like effect, as if they had been taken by
him. They must be written out at length by the stenographer, if a
judge of the court so directs, or if the stenographer is required so to do,
~y a person entitled by law to a copy of the same, so written out.
Unless such a direction is given, or such a requisition is made, the
11tenographer is not bound so to write them out. 
§ 85. Each stenographer, specified in this act, must, upon request,
furnish, with all reasonable diligence and without charge, to the judge
holding a term or sitting, which he has attended, a copy, written out
at length from his stenographic notes, of the testimony and proceed­
ings, or a part thereof, upon a trial or hearing, at that term or sitting.
But this section does not affect a provision of law, authorizing the
judge to direct a party or the parties to an action or special proceeding, or the county treasurer, to pay the stenographer's fees for such a 
~PY·
§ 86. Each stenographer, specified in this act, must likewise, upon 
request, f uruish, with all reasonable diligence, to the defendant in a
criminal cause; or a party, or his attorney in a civil cause, in which he 
has attended the trial or hearing, a copy, written out at length from
his stenographic notes, of the testimony and proceedings, or a part 
thereof, upon the trial or hearing, upon payment, by the person requiring the same, of the fees allowed by law. If the district-attorney or
the Atton1ey-General requires such a copy, in a criminal cause, the
stenographer is entitled to his fees therefore; but he must furnish it,
upon receiving a certificate of the sum to which be is so entitled;
which shall be a county charge, and must be paid by the county treas­
urer, upon a certificatt, like other county charges. 
§ 87. The provisions of the last five sections are also applicable to
assistant-stenographer, now in office, or appointed or employed, 
pursuant to any provision of this act; except that the stenographic
notes, taken by an assistant-stenographer, must, if he dies or his office 
becomes otherwise vacant, be delivered to the stenographer, to be held
by him with like effect, as if they had been taken by him. 
§ 88. The board of supervisors of each county must provide for the
payment of the sums chargeable upon the treasury of the county, for
the salary, fees, or expenses of a stenographer or assistant-stenographer;
and all laws relating to raising money in a county, by the board of 
supervisors thereof, are applicable to those sums.
§ 89. Each count\ clerk may, from time to time, by an instrument 
d
in writing, filed in is office, appoint, an at pleasure remove, one or 
more special deputy-clerks, to attend upon any or all of the terms or
sittings of the courts of which he is clerk. Each person so appointed
must, before he enters upon the duties of his office, subscribe, and file 
in the clerk's office, the constitutional oath of office; and he poesesses
the same power and authority as the clerk, at any sitting or term of 
the court which he attends, with respect to the business transacted
thereat. 
§ 90. No person holding the office of clerk, deputy-clerk, special
deputy-clerk, or assistant in the clerk's office, of a court of record or of
the surrogate's court, within either of the counties of New York or
Kin~s, shall hereafter be appointed, by any court or judge, a referee,
receiver or commissioner, except by the written consent of all the parties to the action or special proceeding, other than parties in def1:1.uli
for failure to appear or to plead. 
§ 91. The county judge of each county, except Kings and Dutchess,
from time to time, may appoint, and at pleasure remove, a crier for 
the courts of record held in his county ; who is entitled to a compensation fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. The clerk of the county
of Dutchess, or in his absence the deputy-clerk, must act as crier ai
each term of a court of record held in that county'. He is entitled 
therefore to a compewsa.tion, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. 
§ 92. A sheriff, deputy-sheriff, or constable, attending a. term of a
eonrt of record, must, when required by the court, act as crier therein; 
and he is not entitled to any additional compeusation for that service.
§ 93. The d · · f h 
lP • e JU ges, or a ruajority o t em, of each of the following
n~med courts, to wit: the supreme court within the first judicial dis- 
trict ; the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York · 
d th
. t f th . f N Y k f . . ' 
an e superror cour o e city o ·ew or , rom time to tune, may 
appoint, and at pleasure remove, such attendants upon the court of
which they are respectively members, inclnding, where the justices of
the supreme court make the appointment, the circuit court, and court 
of oyer and t.erminer, as they think necessary for the due transaction
of the business thereof; not exceeding f2ur g.tteudaJlis for each part, 
and four for the general term. 
§ 94. The board of supervisors of the county of Kings may appoint
an interpreter, to attend the terms of the courts of record, except the 
eouutv court, held in tha.t county, at which issues of fact are triable ;
who s·hall bold his office during good behavior. 
§ 95. The following judges, to wit: the justices of the supreme court
for the second judicial district, residing in Kings county, or a majority!;~~~~­ 
of them; the judges of the city court of Brooklyn, or a majority of
them; the county judge of Kings couuty; and the surrogate of Kings 
eounty ; · may designate how many attendants and messengers, for the
appointment of ·whom no provision is otherwise made by law, are
required to attend upon the terms and sittings of the courts, of which 
they are respectively members; including, where the justices of the
supreme court make the designation, the circuit court and court of
oyer and terminer. Notice of each designation must be given to the
sheriff of Kings county, by the clerk of the court. The sheriff must
thereupon appoint as many qualified persons, to fill those offices for 
each court, as the judges thereof have designated. The number of 
those officers may, from time to time, be increased or diminished, and
new appointments may be made, in like manner. A person so appointed
may be removed from· office, by the judge of the court to which he is
urigned; or, if he is assigned to the supreme court, or the city court
of Brooklyn, by a majority of the judges; and the sheriff shall not
re-appoint, for the same court, a person so removed. 
§ 90. Each of the persons, appointed as prescribed in the last section,
mosi attend, from day to day, the terms and sittings, within the county 
of Kings, of the court to which he is assigned, to preserve order, and 
to perform whatever services may be required of him, by t:11.e judge
presiding thereat. 
§ 97. The sheriff of each county, except New York and Kings, must,
within a reasonable time before the sitting, in his county, of a special 
term of the supreme court, or a term of the circuit court, county court, 
. r d te . rt f . tif . iti d
court o oyer an rmmer, or cou o sessions, no y, m wn mg an 
personally, as many constables of his county, as he has been directed 
to .notify, by the court, or the judge who is to hold or preside at the 
term, to appear and attend upon the term, during its sitting. 
§ 98. If .such a direction has not been given by the court or the
judge, the sheriff' may in like manner notify 9S many constables, as 
he deems necessary, for the purpose specified in the-last section.
§ 99. Each constable seasonably notified, as prescribed in the last 
two sections, must attend the term accordingly; and for each day's
neglect, he may be fined by the court, at the term which he was notified to attend, a sum not exceeding five dollars. 
CHAPTER II. 
POWERS, DUTIES, AND LIABILITIES OF A SHERIFF, OR 
OTHER MINl8TERIAL OFFICER, IN THE EXECUTION
OF THE PROCESS OR OTHER MANDATE OF A COURT OR
JUDGE, IN A CIVIL CASec. 
DA.TBS GENERALLY.
TITLE I.-PROVISION8 RELATING TO THE EXECUTION OP CIVIL KA..N• 
TITLE 11.-PROVIBIONB RELATING TO THB EXECUTION, BY A. 8BERIPP,
OP A. MANDA.TB A.GA.INST THE PERSON. 
TITLE 111.-APPLICA.TION OP THB PORBGOING PROV1810N8 TO TBB PRO­ 
CEBDINGB OP A. CORONER.
TITLE IV.-PoWERB, DUTIBB, AND LIABILITIES OP AN mco111NG A.ND OUT­ 
GOING 8HBRIPP, REBP.ECTIVBLY, TOUCHING TBB IIA.TTBB8
INCLUDED IN THIS CHA.PT.BR. 
TITLE I.
Prcmiliom ,.61,ating to t1UJ e:ucution of ciml mandate, gtlMf'all11. 
8BcTio• 100. Sheriff to tumish certain minute.
101. Copy of process, etc., to be delivered when served.
102. Bhel'iff' to execute process, etc.; may retum by mail.
108. Penalty for neglect in special proceedings.
104. Sheriff may summon the power of the county, to overcome 
resistance.
105. Names of resisteJ'B to be certified.
106. Punishment for refusing to aesist. 
107. Governor may order out military.
108. Trial of claim of title by third pe1'80D, to property aeized bf 
sheriff.
109. Expenses, bow paid. 
§ 100. A sheriff, to whom a mandate of any deecription, is delivered
to be executed, must, without compensation, give to the person deliver­ 
ing the same, if required, a minute in writing, signed by the sheriff,
specifying the names of the parties, the general nature of the man­
date, and the day and hour of receiving the Mme. 
§ 101. A sheriff, or other officer, serving a mandate, must, upon the
request of the person served, deliver to him a copy thereof, without 
compensation.
§ 102. A sheriff, or other officer, to whom a mandate is directed and 
delivered, must execute the same according to the command thereof,
and make return thereon of bis proceedings, under his hand. For a
violation of this provision, he is liable to the party aggrieved, for the
damages sustalned by him ; in additiQn. W ~.!l.Y.fine, or other punishment
or proeeeding, authorized by law. A mandate directed and delivered to a 
sheriff" may be retnmed, by depositing the same in the post-office,
properly incloeed in a poet-paid wrapper, addressed to the clerk, at the 
place where hie office is situated; unless the officer, making the return 
in the name of the sheriff, resides in the place where the clerk's office 
is situated.
§ 103. A 8heriff, or other officer, to whom is delivered, for service or 
execution, & mandate, authorized by law to be issued, by a judge or
other officer, in a special proceeding, who willfully neglects to execute 
the same, may be fined by the judge, in a sum not exceeding twentyftve dollars, and is liable to the party aggrieved for his damages sustained thereby. 
§ 104. If a sheriff', to whom a mandate ie directed and delivered,
flnds, or has reason to apprehend, that resistance will be made to 
the execution thereof, he may command all the male persons in his
county, or as many as he thinks proper, and with such arms as he 
direct.s, including any military organization armed and equipped, to 
assist him in overcoming the resistance, and, if necessary, in arresting
and confining the resisters, their aiders and abettors, to be dealt with 
according to law.
§ 105. The sheriff must certify to the court, from which or by whose 
authority the mandate was issued, the names of the resisters, their
aiders and abettors, as Car as be can ascertain the same, to the end
that they may be punished for their contempt of the court. 
§ 106. A person, commanded by a sheriff' to assist him, 88 prescribed
in the last section but one, who, without lawfnl cause, refuses, or 
neglects to obey the command, is guilty of a misdemeanor. 
§ 107. If it appears to the Governor, that the power of a county will
not be sufficient, to enab1e the sheriff thereof to serve or execute the
process or other mandates, delivered to him, he mnst, on the application
of the sheriff', order such a military force, from 'another county or
counties, as is necessary. 
§ 108. Where it is specially prescribed by law, that a sheriff must,
or may, in bis diseretlon, empanel a jury to try the validity of a claim 
or title to, or of the right of posseesion of goods or effects, seized by
him by virtue of a mandate in an action, interposed by a person not a
party to the action, the trial must be conducted in the following man- 
ner, except as otherwise specially prescribed by law:
1. The sheriff must, from time to time, notify 88 many persons to 
attend, as it is necessary, in order to form a jury of twelve persons,
qnalifl.ed to serve as trial jurore in the county court or the county, or, in
the city and county of New-York, in the court of common pleas for that
city and county, to try the validity of the claim, 
2. Upon the trial, witnessee may be examined, in behalf of the
claimant, and of the party, at whose instance the property claimed
was taken by the sheriff'. For the purpose of compelli~ a witness to 
attend and testify, the sheriff, upon the application of either party to
the inquisitioi£ must issue a subpama, 88 prescribed in section eight. 
linndred andfty-four of this act, and with like effect; except that a
warrant to apprehend or to commit a witness, in a case specified in section eight hundred and fifty-five or section eight hundred and
fifty-six of this act, may be issued by a judge of the court in which
the action is brought, or by the county judge, or, in the city and
county of New-York, by a judge of the court of common pleas for that 
city and county.
S. The sheriff or under-sheriff" must preside upon the trial. A 
'Fitness, produced by either pa.rty, must be sworn by the presiding 
officer, and examined orally in the presence of 'the jnry. A witness,
who testifies falsely upon such an examination, is guilty of perjury in
a like case, and is punishable in like manner, as upon the trial of a. 
civil action.
§ 109. Upon such a trial there are no costs; but the fees of the sheriff', 
jurors, and witnesses must be taxed, by a judge of the court, or the
county judge of the county, or, in the city and county of New-York, by
a judge of the court of common pleas for that city and county, and
must be paid as follows : 
1. If the jury, by their verdict, find the title, or the right of posses­
sion to the property claimed, to be in the claimant; by the party at 
whose instance the property was taken by the sheriff.
2. If they find adversely to the claimant, with respect to all the 
property claimed ; by the claimant.
8. If they find the title, or the right of possession to only a. part of 
the property claimed, to be in the claimant; each party must pay bis
own witnesses' fees; and the sheriff's and jurors' fees must be paid,
one-half by each party to the inquisition. 
Before notifying the jurors, the sheriff may, in his discretion. require
each of the parties to the controversy to deposit with him such reason­
able sum, as may be necessary to cover bis legal fees, and the jurors'
fees. The sheriff must return to each party the balance of the sum 
so deposited by him, after deducting the fees, lawfully chargeable to 
that party, as prescribed in this section. . 
Pf'OtnlionB f'sf,aMng to ths ~' bg a ahmff, of a mandal.l against tM 
person. 
AltTIOLB 1. An-eetin{, conveying to jail, and committing a prisoner.
. 2. Ja.ils; j&1l discipline; and regulations concernmg the confinement and 
care of prisoners. 
TITLE II. 
8. Temporary jails, and temponry removal of prisoners from j&ll.
4. Ja.il liberties; escapes. . 
6. Action upon and asaignment .of a bond for j&il liberties. 
ARTICLE FIRST • 
.AlumsTllfG, COlfVB'lllfQ TO JA.IL, .IJID CoJOUTTllfG .l PJU80BBL 
8JIO'l'loir 110. Prisoner, bow kept.
111. Suppo'rtof prisoner in Kings county. 
112. Id. ; in other counties.
113. Charges for food, ete., when prohibited.
114. Also for wa.iting for prisoner.
115. Ra.tes of charges for lodging, etc. 
116. Prisoner may send for necessaries.
117. Charges for rent, etc., prohibited.
118. Prisoner how conveyed to ja.il through another county.
ll9. Officer or prisoner not liable to a.rrest. 
§ 110. A person arrested, by virtue of. an ordet of arrest, in an 
action or special proceeding brought in a court of record ; or of an 
execution issued upon a. judgment rendered in a. court of record; or 
surrendered in exoneration of his bail; must be safely kept in custody, 
in the manner prescribed by. law, and, except as otherwise prescribed
in the next two 'sectlous, at his own expense, until he satisfies the
judgment. rendered .against him, or is discharged according to law, 
§ 111. In the county of Kings, when the sheriff has actually con-.Ba.Pport
6.ned in jail a prisoner so arrested or surrendered, he must serve upon
the plaintiff's attorney, as.prescribed by law for the servioe of a. paper
upon an attorney in an aetion, a. written notice, stating tbat he has 80 
confined the . prisoner, and that the plaintifff is required to make the
payments specified in this section, in. default w'kereof the prisoner will 
be discharged. Within. three days after service of the notice, or six
days, if the service is by mail, the plaintifff' must pay to the sheriff the
sum of twenty-fl ve dollars, for the support of the prisoner for the first
twenty days, after his actual confinement in jail, unless in the mean- 
time be is discharged or admitted to the jail liberties. At or before
the expiration of each subsequent period of twenty days, during which
the prisoner has been so confined, the plaintifff must pay a like sum 
tQ the sheriff'~ for the prisoner's support during the ensuing twenty
day~. If a payment required by this section is not made, the prisoner
must be discharged. The sheriff must apply all the money so paid, to
the support of the prisoner, unless be is admitted to the jail .liberties
or discharged; in which case be must refund to the plaintifff 'a attorney
a ratable portion of the last payment, according to the period of time,
during which the prisoner was 80 confined .. 
§ 112. In any county except Kings, if a prisoner, actually confined
in jail, makes oath before the sheriff, jailor, or deputy-jailor, that he is 
unable to support himself during bis imprisonment, his support is a
county charge. · 
§ 118. A sheriff' or other officer shall not charge a person, whom he
has arrested, with any sum of money, or demand, or receive from him 
money, or any valuable thing, for any drink, victuals, or other thing,
furnished or provided for the officer, or for the prisoner, at any tavern,
ale-house, or public victualing or drlnking-house. 
§ 114. A sheriff or other officer. shall not demand or receive from a
person, arrested by him, while in- bis custody, a gratuity or reward, 
upon any pretense, for keeping the prisoner out of jail; for going
with him or waiting for him to find. bail, or to.agree with his adversary ; or for any other purpose. 
§ 115. If a person arrested is kept in a house other than the jail of
the county, the officer arresting himvor the person in whose custody 
he is, shall not demand or receive from him any greater sum, for lodging, drink, victuals, or any other thing, than bas been theretofore pre­
scribed by the court of sessions of the county; or, if no rate bas been
prescribed by the court of sessions, than is allowed by a justice of the
peace of the same town or city, upon proof that the lodging or other
thing was actually furnished, at the request of the prisoner. And
such an officer or person shall not, in any case or upon any pretext,
demand or receive compensation for strong, spirituous, or fermented 
liquor, or wine, sold or delivered to the prisoner. 
§ 116. A prisoner so kept in a house, may send for and have beer,
ale, cider, tea, coffee, milk, and necessary food, and such bedding,~~~= 
linen, and other necessary things, as he thinks fit, from whom be
pleases, without detention of the same or any part thereof by, or pay- 
ing for the same, or any part thereof to, the officer arresting him, or
~he pel'80n i~ whose custody be Is.. 
§ 117. A sheriff', jailor, or other officer, shall not demand or receive
money, or any valuable thing, for chamber rent in a jail ; or any fee, 
compensation, or reward, for the commitment, detaining in custody,
release, or discharge of a prisoner, other than the fees expre88ly 
allowed therefore by law. 
§ 118. A sheriff or other officer, who bas lawfully arrested a prisoner,
may convey his prisoner through one or more other counties, in the
ordinary route of travel, from the place where the prisoner was ar­
rested, to the place where be is to be delivered or confined. 
§ 119. A prisoner so conveyed, or the officer having him in custody,
is not liable to arrest in any civil action or special proceeding, while
passing through another county. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
JAILB; JAIL Dl8CIPLl10I J ilD RBGULATIONS OONOBRNI1'G 'l'IDI Colfll'lllBIIB1'T ill> 
C.AJUI O.P PKl801'JIB8. 
8BOTI01' 120. Jail in New York city.
121. Ja.ils in ot.ber eounaes,
122. Either of several jails may be used.
128. Civil and criminal prisoners to be kept sepal'&te.
124. Males and females to be kept separate.
125. Penalties.
126. Ja.il physician.
127. Removal of sick prisonen.
128. Sale of liquor in jails.
129. Permit, when ~anted.
130. Penalties for violation.
131. Service of papers on prisoner.
132. Sheriff' to permit aooees for that purpoee.
133. Prisoners under United States process.
134. Sherifl" answerable for their custody • 
§ 120. The building, now used as a jail in the city of New York, for
the confinement of prisoners in civil causes, shall continue to be the 
jail of the city and county of New York, for the confinement of such
persons; and the sheriff of the city and county of New York shall have
the custody thereof, and of the prisoners in the same. 
§ 121. The buildings, now used as the jails of the other counties of
the State, shall continue to be the jails of those counties respectively,
until other. buildings have been designated or erected for that purp<>8e,
according to law ; and the sheriff of each county shall have the custody
of the jail or jails of his county, and of the prisoners in the same. 
§ 122. The sheriff of a county, in which there is more than one jail,
may confine a prisoner in either ; and may remove him from one jail 
to another, within the county, whenever he deems it necessary for his
safe keeping, or for bis appearance at court. 
§ 123. A prisoner, arrested in a civil cause, must not be kept·in a
room, in which any prisoner, detained on a criminal charge or eonvie­
tion, is confined. 
§ 124. Male and female prisoners must not be put in the same room;
except that a husband and his wife may be put or kept together, in a
room wherein there are no other prisoners. 
§ 125. A sheriff, or other officer, who willfully violates any of the
foregoing provisions of this title, forf eits to the person aggrieved, 
treble damages. He is also guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall he
punished accordingly. A conviction also operates as a forfeiture of his 
oiice. 
§ 126. The board of supervisors of each county, except New York,
must appoint some reputable physician, du1y authorized to practice
medicine, as the physician to the jail of the county. If there is more
Dian one jail they must appoint a physician to each. The common
council of the city of New York must appoint a similar physician, to
the jail of that city and county. The physician to a jail bolds his 
. office at the pleasure of the board which appointed him, except in the
county of Kings. In that county, the term of his office is three years. 
§ 127. H the physician to a jail, or, in case of a vacancy, a physician
acting as such, and the warden or jailer, certify in writing, that a
pri.soner, confined in the jail in a civil cause, is in such a state of bodily
health, that his life will be endangered, unless he is removed to a
hospital for treatment, the county judge, or, in the city and county of
New York, one of the ju~es of the court of common pleas, must, upon 
application, make au order, directing the removal of the prisoner to a
hoepital within the county, designated by the judge; or, if there is
none, to such nearest hospital as the. judge direets; that the prisoner
be kept in the custody of the chief officer of the hospital, until he has
sufficiently recovered from his illness, to be sa.f'ely returned to the jail ; 
that the chief officer of the hospital then notify the warden or jailor,
and that the latter thereupon resume custody of the prisoner. If the
prisoner actually escapes, while going to, remaining at, or returning
from the hospital, a new execution may be issued· against his person,·
if he was in custody by virtue of an execution ; or, if be was in custody
by virtue of an order of arrest, a new order of arrest may be granted,
upon proof by affidavit of the facts specified in this section, without 
other proof, and without an undertaking.
§ 128. Strong, spirituous, or fermented liquor, or wine, shall not, on 
any pretense, be sold within a building used and established as a jail.
Spirituous, fermented or other liquor, except cider, and that quality of
'beer called table-beer, shall not be brought into a jail for the use of a
person confined therein, without a written permit by the physician to
the jail, which must be delivered to and kept by the keeper thereof,
specifying the quantity and kind of liquor which may be furnished,
the name of the prisoner for whom, and the time during which the
same may be furnished. 
§ 129. Such a permit shall not be granted, unless the physician is
satisfied, that the liquor allowed to be furnished is necessary for the
health of the prisoner, for whose use it is permitted; and that fact
must be stated in the permit. 
§ 180. A person who brings into or sells in a. jail, strong, spirituous,
fermented, or other liquor, or wine, contrary to the foregoing provisions 
of this article ; or a sheriff, keeper of a jail, assistant-keeper, or an
officer, or person employed in or about a jail, who knowingly suffers
liquor or wine to be sold or used therein, contrary to this article, is
guilty of a. misdemeano~slia-U-6e punished accordingly. A conviction also operates as a forfeiture of his office. 
§ 131. A sheriff or ja.ilor, upon whom a paper in an action or special
proceeding, directed to a prisoner in his custody, is lawfully served, or 
to whom such a paper is delivered for a prisoner, must, within two
~s thereafter, deliver the same to the prisoner, with a note thereon of
the -time of the service thereof upon, or the receipt thereof by him. 
For a neglect or violation of this section, the sheriff' or jailor, guilty 
thereof, is liable to the prisoner for all damages occasioned thereby.·
§ l32. Subject to reasonable regulations, which the sheriff may 
establish for that purpose, a sheriff, jailor, or other officer, who has the
custody of a prisoner, must permit such access to him as is necessary,
for the personal service of a paper in an action or special proceeding, 
to which the prisoner is a party, and which must be personally served. 
§ 133. A sheriff must receive into his jail and keep a prisoner, committe to the same, by virtue of civil process 1SBue by a court o
record, instituted under the authority of the United States, until he is
discharged by the due course of .the laws of the United States, in the 
same manner as if he was committed by virtue of a.mandate in a civil
action, issued from a. court of the State, The sheriff may receive, to
.his_QWA ~ the money payable by the United States for the use of . 
tlieJail~ - - 
§ 134. A sheriff or jailer, to whose ja.il a prisoner is committed, as
prescribed in the last section, is answerable for his safe keeping, in ·
the courts of the United States, according to the laws thereof. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
TJUntoJwly JAILS, .um TBIIPOURY RIUlovAL OP PBISOnu DOil J.0.: 
8BCTiolr 135. When jail becomes unfit, ete., another to be designated.
136. Designation, bow annulled. 
137. Copy of designation to be served on the sheriff", etc. ·
188. Prisoners a.lread7 upon jail liberties. .
189. Jail liberties to prisoner, who becomes entitled thereto, before removal. 
140. Id.; to prisoners removed. .
141. When designation to be revoked, etc.
142. Copy of revocation to be served on eherur J aherlif'e duty theren.. 
143. Removal of prisoners-in case of fire.
144. What officer to ad in case of absence, .ete, 
§ 135. If there is no jail in a county ; or the ja.il becomes unfit or
unsafe for the confinement of some or all of the prisoners, or is de­ 
stroyed by fire or otherwise ; or if a pesfilential disease breaks out in
the jail, or in the vicinity of the jail, .and the physician to the jail 
certifies that it is likely to endanger the health of any or all of the
prisoners in the jail; the county judge, or, in the city and county of
New York, the chief-judge of the court of common pleas, must, by an
instrument in. writing, Bled with the clerk of the county, designate
another suitable place within the county, or the jail of a coutigu­
ous county, for the confinement of some or all of the prisoners, as the 
case requires, Tne place so designa.ted thereupon becomes, to all
intents and purposes, except as otherwise prescribed in this article, the
jail of the county for which it has been so designated, and for the pur­
poses expressed in the instrument designating the same. 
§ 136. The designation may be modified or revoked, by the judge
making the same, by a like instrument in writing, filed with the clerk 
of the county.
§ 137. The county clerk must serve a copy of the designation, duly 
certified by him, under his official seal, on the sheriff and keeper of
the jail of a contiguous county so designated. The sheriff of that
county must, upon the delivery of the sheriff' of the county for which
the designation is made, receive into his jail, and there safely keej 
all persons who may be lawfully confined therein, pursuant to this article ; and he is responsible for their safe keeping, as if he was the 
sheriff of the county for which the designation, is made.
§ 138. U a. prisoner has been admitted to the liberties of the jail of 
the county, for which the designation is made, he must, notwithstand- 
ing, remain within those libertles ; but he may be removed by the
sheriff, to whom he has given bond for the liberties, to the jail or other
place 80 designated, and confined therein, in a case, where the sheriff
might coufine him in the jail of his own county. 
§ 139. If a person, who is arrested, before or after the designation, 
by the sheriff of the county for which the designation is made, becomes
entitled, after the designation, and, before his removal, to the liberties
of the jail, he must be admitted to the liberties ef the jail of that
county, as if the designation had not been made; but he may be 
removed by the sheriff to the jail, or other place, 80 designated, and
confined· therein, in a case, where the sheriff might confine him in the 
jail of his own county.
§ 140. If a. person confined in or removed, te the- jail of a contiguous 
county, designated as prescribed in this article, becomes entitled to the 
liberties of the jail, the sheriff' of that county must admit him to: the 
jail liberties, as if be had been originally arrested by that sheriff, on 
a mandate directed to him.
§ 141. When a jail is erected for the county, for whose use the desig- 
nation was made,' or its jail is rendered fit and safe for the confinement 
of prisoners, or the reason for the designation of another jail or place
has otherwise ceased to be operative, the designation must be revoked, 
as .J>rescribed in this article. 
§ 142. The county clerk must immediately serve a copy of the rerocation, duly certified by him under his official seal, upon the sheriff of 
the same county ; who must remove the prisoners belonging to his
custody, and confined without his county, to his proper jail. If a 
prisoner has been admitted to the jail liberties in the other county, be 
must also be removed; and he is entitled to the liberties of the jail of
the county, to which he is removed, without a new bond, as if be had
been originally admitted to the jail liberties in that county; andthe 
bond given by him applies accordingly to those liberties.
§ 143. If, by reason of a jail, or a building near a. jail, being on fire, 
there is reason to apprehend that some or all of the prisoners confined
in the jail, may be injured, or may escape, the sheriff or keeper of the
jail may, in bis discretion, remove them to some safe and cenvenient
place, and there confine them, until they can be safely returned to the
jail; 01, if the jail is destroyed, or so injured, that it is unfit or unsafe 
for the confinement of the prisoners, until a designation is me.de, as
prescribed in section one hundred and thirty-five of this act. 
§ 144. If the county judge, or the chief-judge of the court of eommoa 
ple!L8 f~t; t~e c~ty and county. of N ~w-York, is absen.t or una.bl~ .to ·9:ctj 
or if his office 1s vacant, a. designatlon, or the revocation or modification
thereof, as prescribed in this article, may be made, in any county, 
except New-York, by the special county judge or the district attorney,
or in the city and county of New-York, by any judge of the court of 
common pleas •. 
TITLE LIBJIJlT018 I Eecu•.
8.anos 145. Jail libertiee in certain counties. 
146. Id.; in other counties.
147. Id.; how laid out. 
148. Copy to be kept posted in Jail. 
149. Who admitted to liberties. 
150. Bond to be executed by pl'UIOner; its content&
11>1. For whom bond to be held.
152. Prisoner to be committed when Blll'etJ is insufficient
158. SWTender of prisoner by his sureties. 
154. How surrender made.
165. Wha.t deemed and what not deemed an eacape. 
156. When court may order prisoner out of aherii''1 CUBtod:,. 
157. Prisonen committed for contempt.
158. Sheriff"& liability for escape.
159. Penalty for connivance at escape by a sheriff, etc. 
§ 145. The.6fiedollowito·ng.tare the liberties of the jail for each of the
conn es spect , wt : 
For the city and county of New-York, the whole of that city and
county. 
For the county of Onondaga, the whole of the city of Syracuse.
For the county of Monroe, the whole of the city of Roch~ster.
For the county of Erie, the whole of the city of Buffalo.
For the county of Dutchess, the whole of the city of Poughkeepsie.
For the county of Kings, the whole of that county.
For the county of Albany, the whole of the cit1, of Albany.
For the county of Jefferson, the whole of the city of Watertown.
For the county of Herkimer, the whole of the village of Herkimer.
For the county of Rensselaer, the whole of the city of Troy. 
§ 146. The liberties o! the jail in each of the other counties of the
State, as heretofore established, shall continue to be the liberties thereof, 
until they are altered, or new liberties are established, as prescribed by
law. 
§ 147. Where the liberties of a jail are altered or established, by
resolution of the board of sur.ervisors, as prescribed by law, a space 
of ground, adjacent to the jail, and not exceeding five hundred acres
in quantity, must be laid out as the jail liberties, in a square or rect­
angle as nearly as may be; but a stream of water, canal, street, or
highway, may be adopted as an exterior line, notwithstanding it is not
in a straight line, or it1 not at right an~les with the other exterior lines
of the liberties. A resolution establishing or altering jail liberties,
must contain a particular description of their boundaries; and as soon
as may be after its adoption, the boundaries must be designated by
monuments, Inclosures, posts, or other visible and permanent marks, at
the expense of the county. 
§ 148. The county clerk must, within one week after a resolution of
the board of supervisors, establishin~ or altering jail liberties, baa been 
filed in his office, deliver an exemplified copy thereof to the keeper of
the jail, who must keep the same exposed to public view, in an open
and public part of the Jail, and exhibit it to each person admitted to
the liberties of the jail, at the time of his executing a bond for that 
purpose. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
§ 149. A person in the cust.ody of a sheriff', by virtue of an order of 
arrest; or of an execution in a civil action; or in consequence of a surrender in exoneration of his bail; is entitled to be admitted to the lib- 
erties of the jail upon executing a bond to the sheriff, as prescribed in
the next section. 
§ 150. The bond must be executed by the prisoner and one or more
sufficient sureties, residents and householders or freeholders of the
county, in a penalty at least twice the sum in which the sheriff' was re- 
qnired to hold the defendant to bail, if he is in custody under an order of 
arrest, or has been surrendered in exoneration of his bail, before judament; or directed to be collected by the execution, if be is in custoay
under an execution ; or remaining uncollected upon a ju~eut against
him, if he has been surrendered after judgment; conditioned that the
person so in custody shall remain a prisoner, and shall not, at any time
or in any manner, escape or go without the liberties of the jail until
discharged by due course of law. 
§ 151. A bond so taken is held for the indemnity of the sheriff' taking it, and of the party at whose instance the prisoner executing it is 
confined.
§ 152. If a sheriff', who has taken such a bond, discovers that a surety 
therein is insufficient, he may commit the prisoner who executed it to 
eloee confinement in the jail, until another bond, with good and su.fficient sureties, is off'ered. 
§ 158. One or more of the sureties, in a bond given for the liberties
o( a jail, 19ay surrender the principal, at any time before judgment is
rendered against them in an action on the bond ; but they are not exonerated thereby, from a liability incurred before making the surrender. 
§ l54. The surrender must he made as follows, The surety or sureties making it must take the principal to the keeper of the jail, who 
mllSt, upon his or their written requisition to that effect, take the principal into his custody, and indorso upon the bond given for the liberties,
an acknowledgment of the surrender; and also, if required, give the
10rety or sureties a certificate, acknowledging the surrender. 
§ 155. The going at large, within the liberties of the jail in which
be is in custody, of a prisoner who has executed such a bond, or of a 
prisoner who would be entitled to the liberties upon executing such a
bond, is not an escape. But the going a.t large, beyond the liberties, 
by a prisoner, without the assent of the party at whose instance be is
in custody, is an escape ; and the sheriff in whose custody he was, has
the same authority to pursue and retake him, as if he bad escaped
from the jail. Buch an escape forfeits the bond for the liberties, if
any; subject to the provisions of the next article of this title. 
§ 156. Where a person, who has been indicted for a criminal offense,
ii held by & sheriff, by virtue of a mandate in a civil action or special 
proceeding, the court, in which the indictment is pending, may make
an order, requiring the sheriff' to bring him before the court; where-~~ 
upon the court may make such disposition of the prisoner, as to it
seems proper. The sheriff''.a ·fees and expenses, in 8Q doing,__~ ~ 
county charge of the county wherein the court is sitting.
§ 157. A prisoner, committed to jail QJ)QD c'l"Clr.888 for contempt, or 
committed for misconduct in a case prescribed ylaw, must be actua11y
confined and detained within the jail, until he is discharged by due
course of law, or is removed to another jail or place of confinement, in 
a caae prescribed by law. A sheriff or keeper of a jail, who suffers 
r, 
such a prisoner to go or be at large out of bis jail, except byvirtue of
a writ of habeas corpus, or by the special direction of the court com­
mitting him, or in a case specially prescribed by law; is liable to the
party aggrieved, for his damages sustained thereby, and is guilty of a
misdemeanor. If the commitment was for the non-payment of a sum
of money, the amount thereof, with interest, is._tbe.IJleMure of dam&J::es. 
§ 158. Where a prisoner, in a sheriff's custody, goes or is at large be­
yond the liberties of the jail, without the assent of the party at whose
Instance he is in custody, the sheriff is answerable therefore, in an
action against him, as follows : 
1. If the prisoner was in custody by virtue of an order of arrest,
or in consequence of a surrender in exoneration of bis bail, before
judgment, the sheriff is answerable to the extent of the damages sus­
tained by the plaintifff. 
2. If the prisoner was in custody by virtue of any other mandate, or
in consequence of a surrender in exoneration of bis bail, after judg­
ment, the sheriff is answerable for the debt, damages, or sum of money,
for which the prisoner was committed. 
§ 159. A sheriff or other officer, who demands or receives a reward,
gratuity, or other valuable thing, to procure, assist, connive at, or per­ 
mit an escape of a prisoner, in his custody, is guilty of a. misdemeanor,
and shall be punished accordingly. A conviction also. operates as a 
forfeiture of his office, and disqualifies him forever thereafter from
holding the same. 
ARTICLE FIFTH. 
AO'l'IOll' 1JP01' .UD AssIGNKBlff 01' .l J3o1'1> :l'OB JilL LIBBn'DIII. 
S~o:ir 160. Defence in action by sheriff on bond.
161. Judgment against sheriff to be evidenced against sureties, etAl.
162. Summary judgment for sheriff'.
163. Requisites of application therefore.
164. Such judgment when stayed. Same ; when vacated. 
165. Judgment against sheriff is evidence of damages. 
166. Assignment of bond.
167. Action on bond by assignee; damages recoverable.
168. Such assignment bars action against sheriff.
169. Defence in action by assignee.
170. Stay of proceedings where assignment is not ta.ken.
171. Defence of sheriff' in action for escape. 
§ 160. In an action brought by a sheriff on a bond for the jail liber
ties, it is a defense, that the prisoner voluntarily returned to the liber­ 
ties of the jail from which he escaped, or was recaptured by; or surrendered to the sheriff, from whose custody he escaped, before the
commencement of the action. The defendants may make that or any
other defense to the action, which might be made by the sheriff, to an
action against him for the escape. 
§ 161. But if judgment bas been rendered against the sheriff, in an
action brought for the escape, and due notice of the pendency of the
action was given to the prisoner and bis sureties, to enable them to 
defend the same, the judgment against the sheriff is conclusive evi­
dence of bis right to recover against the prisoner and bis sureties, to
whom the notice was given, as to any matter which was or might have
been controverted, in the action against the sheriff. 
§ 162. In an action brought by a sheriff' on a bond for the jail liberties, if it appears to the court, upon a motion made in behalf of the
sheriff, that judgment hes been rendered against him, for the escape 
of the prisoner, and that due notice of the pendency of the action
against him, was.given to the prisoner and. his sureties, to enable them
to defend the same, the court must order a summary judgment for ·the
plaintifff; and judgment must be entered accordingly, with costs. 
§ 168. But to entitle ·a sheriff' to move for such a· judgment, he must
have served a copy of his complaint, and given twenty days' notice of 
the motion.
§ 164. If it appears, on the hearing of the motion, that the defend- 
ants have· a meritorioos defense, which was not eontroverted in the
action against the sheriff',. and which by law could not have been so
controverted, the court may stay proceedings on the judgment, wit.h
such limitations and upon such terms, as it deems just, until a trial in
the action ; but the judgment must stand as e. security for the sheriff.
If the defense is established, the court must vacate the judgment, and 
'render judgment for the defendant.
§ 165. In an action brought by a sheriff' on a bond for the jail liber- 
ties, a jndgment against him for the escape of the prisoner, is evidence
of the damages sustained by him, as if it had been collected ; and he 
may recover his reasonable e.ttomey's and counsel fees, and other
e~ses in defending the action against him, as part of his damages. 
§ 166. If a bond for the jail liberties is forfeited, the party at whose
. instance the prisoner was confined, or, in case of bis death, his execu- 
tor or administrator, is entitled to an assignment thereof"; which must
be executed by the sheriff who took" the bond, or, in case of a. vacancy
in his office, by his uuder-eherlffcand acknowledged or proved, and 
"certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county. 
§ 167. The person to whom such an assignment has been made, may
-maintain an action on the bond, as assignee of the sheriff' taking the 
same, in a C88e where an action might be maintained by the sheriff'; 
and be ma.y recover the same damages for the breach of the -condltion, 
.. which he might have recovered in an. action ~inrst the sheriff, for the
escape. 
§ 168. -Ttle·acceptance of an asmgnment of such a bond, is a bar to
an action, by Ol' in1 behalf of the assignee, against the sheriff' Or other 
. officer maki.ng the same, for an escape-by the prisoner executing the
. bond, amonnting·to ·a. breach of the condition thereof, unless the escape 
was with the assent of the sheriff or other officer.
§ 169. In an action brought by the aesignee of the bond, the defend- 
an• may make·any defense, which he might make, if the action was
brought in the name·and for the benefit of the sheriff'. 
§ 170. If the person entitled to an assignment of a bond for the jail
libemes, in lieu of taking the same, brings an action against the sheriff' 
for the escape, the -cours may, except where the- escape was made with
the sheriff's assent, stay proceedings upon a judgment recovered against 
the sheriff, with such limitations e.nd upon such terms as it deems just,
until he bu bad a reasonable time to prosecute the bond, and collect
a judgment recovered thereon. 
§ 171. In an action against a sheriff' or other officer, for the escape
. of a priaoner, ii is a defense; thai the escape was without the assent 
of the-defendant; and that at the.oommeneement of the action, be had
the prisoner -within the .libertdes, .either by his voluntary retum, or by 
recapture. 
TITLE m. 
Sllcmo:s 17!.l. Duties of coroner when sheriff' is a party. 
173. Any one of the coroners may act. 
174. Arrest of sheriff' by coroner.
176. Sheriff'; how confined. .
176. Place of confinement to be deemed a jail. 
177. Sheriff' to be a.dmitt.ed to jail liberties ; liability of coroner for sheriff''•
escape. 
178. Coroner may prosecute, etc., bond for liberties.
179. Duties of coroner where sheriff' is plaintifff'. 
180. Such prisoner entitled to jail liberties, etc.
181. Eaca.pe of such prisoner. 
§ 172. In an action or special proceeding, to which the sheriff' of a
county is a. party, a coroner of the same county has a.11 the power, and 
is subject to all the duties of a sheriff', in a. cause to which the sheriff
is not a party; except as otherwise specially prescribed by law. 
§ 178. A mandate in a civil action or special proceeding which must
or may be executed by the coroners, or by a. coroner of a county, must 
be directed either to a particular coroner, or generally to the coroners of
that county. Where such a mandate is directed generally to the coro­
ners of a county, or requires them to do any act, it may be executed,
and a return thereto may be made and signed, by one of them; but
such an act or return does not atfect the others. 
§ 174. Where a. mandate, requiring the arrest of the sheriff' of the
county, is directed to a coroner, he must execute the same in the man­
ner prescribed by law, with respect to the execution of a similar man­
date by a. sheriff'; and he is authorized to take an undertaking on the
a.nest, or a bond for the jail liberties, to himself, in bis name of office,
in a like case, and in like manner, and with like etfect, as where such
a bond or undertaking may be taken by a sheriff'. 
§ l76. Where the actual confinement of a sheriff' by a coroner, on a
mandate, is required or authorized by law, he must be confined by the 
coroner, in a house situated within the liberties of the jail of the county,
other than the sheriff's house, or the jail, in the same manner as a
sheriff' is required by law to confine a. prisoner in the jail. 
§ 176. That house thereupon becomes the jail of the county, for the
use of the coroner; and each provision of law relating to the jail, or to an
escape from the jail, applies thereto, while the sheriff' is confined therein. 
§ 177. A sheriff so arrested must be admitted to the liberties of the
jail of the county, in a like case, and upon executing a like bond to 
the coroner, as prescribed by law for a prisoner in the sheriff's custody.
For an escape of the sheriff' from the liberties, the coroner is liable, in 
the same manner, and to the same extent, as a sheriff' for a similar
escape ; and he may make the same defense as a sheriff. 
§ 178. The coroner may prosecute a bond for the liberties taken by
him, and is entitled to all the rights, and subject to all the liabilities,
prescribed by law, with respect to a similar bond ta.ken by a. sheriff. 
The bond may be assigned by him, to the party at whose instance
the sheriff' was arrested ; and the same/roceedingB may be had there­ 
upon, as upon a bond ta.ken and assigne by a sheriff, in a similar cue. 
§ 179. A person arreated by a coroner, in an action or 8})8Cl&l proceedi~, in which the sheriff of the county is plaintifff, must be confined 
in the Jail of the county, in a cue where such a confinement is required
or authorized by law; but the coroner is not liable for an escape of the 
prisoner from the jail, after he has been confined therein. A person so
conftned must be kept and treated, in all respects, like a prisoner confined by the sheriff. 
§ 180. A person so arrested by a coroner, is entitled to be discharged,
or to the liberties of the jail, as the case requires, upon giving a bond 
or an undertaking to the coroner, in the like manner, and in a like
cue, in which a person arrested by a sheriff would be entitled to be so 
discharged, or to the liberties. The bond or undertaking so given,
must be in all respects similar to that required to be given to a sheriff;
and it has the like effect, and may be assigned and proceeded upon in 
like manner.
§ 181. A coroner is answerable for an escape of a prisoner, admitt.ed 
by him to the liberties of the jail, in the same manner and to the same
extent, as a sheriff, and may interpose a like defense. 
TITLE , du&a mad lialJilitia of an i~ing and otdgolng aluJril, re,p«:1- 
8BC'l"lo1' 181. Certificate to be fumiebed to new sheriff".
183. Powen of former 11beriff'; when to eesee.
184. Jd)s. procem, ete., to be delivered to new eheri1r.
185. Former sheriff' to encute instrument.
186. Former' 11herift' to execute certain process.
187. Certain orders to. be delivered to and returned by new sheriff". 
§ 182. Where a new Bheritr has been elected or appointed, and has
qualifted and given the security required by law, the clerk of the CO!J.Jljy 
mUBt furnish to the new sheriff a certificate, under'"li1sliana"iirulofficial 
eeal, stating that the person so appointed or elected, has BO qualified
and given seeurity. 
§ 183. Upon the commencement of the new sheriff'B term of office,
and the service of the certificate on the former sheriff, the 1atter'B powers 
as Bheriff cease, except as otherwise expressly prescribed by law.
§ 184. Within ten days after the service of the certificate, upon the 
former sheriff, he must deliver to hia succeMOr:
1. The jail, or if there are two or more, the jails of the county, with 
all their appurtenances. and the property of the county therein.
2. All the prisoners then confined in the jail or jails. 
3. All proeees, orders, commitments, and an other papers and doeu­
mentls, authorizing, or relating to the confinement or custody of a pris­
oner, or, if sneh a proeese, orde:r, or commitment has been returned, a
stat.ement in writing of the contents thereof, and when and where it 
WU returned. 
TITLE IV. 
iwlg, touching th6 mattera incltul«l in this chap!Hr. 
188. Delivery of_ prisoners, process, etc., how enforced. 
189. UndeM1heriJf, ete., when to compl7 with foregoing provieions. 
• 
A d .
4. · Il. man ates, then m his hands, except such as he bas fully exe- 
cuted, or has begun to execute, by the collection of money thereon, or
by a seizure of or levy on money or other property, in pursuance thereof. 
§ 185. At the time of the delivery, the former sheriff must execute
an instrument, reciting the property, documents, and prisoners 
-delivered, specifying particularly the process or other authority, by
which each prisoner was committed and is detained, and whether the
same has been returned or is delivered to the new sheriff. The instru­
ment must be delivered to the new sheriff, who must acknowledge, in
writing, upon a duplicate thereof, the receipt of the property, docu­
ments and prisoners, therein specified; and deliver such duplicate
and acknowledgment to the former sheriff. 
§ 186. Notwithstanding the election or appointment of a new sheriff',
the former sheriff must return, in his own name, each mandate which
he has fully executed ; and must proceed with and complete the exe­
cution of each mandate which he bas begun to execute, in the manner
specified in subdivision fourth of the last section but one. 
§ 187. Where a person, arrested by virtue of an order of arrest, is
confined, either in jail, or to the liberties thereof, at the time of assign­ 
ing and delivering the jail to the new sheriff, the order, if it is not the«
returnable, must be delivered to the new sheriff, and be returned bv
him at the return day thereof, with the 'proceedings of the former
sheriff and of the new sheriff thereon. 
§ 188. If the former sheriff neglects or refuses to deliver to his sue­
cesscr, the jail, or any of the property, documents or prisoners in his
charge, as prescribed in this title, his successor must, notwithstanding, 
take possession of the jail, and of the property of the county therein,
and the custody of the prisoners therein confined, and proceed to com­ 
pel the delivery of the documents withheld, as prescribed by law.
§ 189. If, at the time when a new sheriff qualifies, and gives the 
security required by law, the office of the former sheriff is executed
by his under .. sheriff, or by a coroner of the county, or a person specially
authorized for that purpose, he must comply with the provisions of this title, and perform the duties thereby required of the former sheriff. 
CHAPTER III. 
CIVIL JURISDICTION OF THE PRINCIPAL COURTS OF
RECORD; ORGANIZATION, MEMBERS, AND OFFICERS
THEREOF; Dl.8TRIBUT10N, AND Dl8PATCH OF BUSIN~
THEREIN. 
TITLE 1.-THB COURT OP APPEALS. 
TITLE 11.-THE SUPREME COURT, INCLUDING THE CIRCUIT COURTS. 
TITLE lll.-THB SUPERIOR CITY COURTS. 
TITLE IV.-THE MARINB cotrar oP TRE CITY OP NBw-YoRK. 
TITLE V.-THB COUNTY COURTS. 
TITLE I.
Tlld court of appeala. 
ARTICLB 1. JnriRdiction, and mode of exereising' the same; general powere; terma
and sittings. 
i. The clerk of the court.
8. The St.ate reporter ; publication and distribution of the reports. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
JUB18DICTIOlll, A.lfD MoDB OP. ll:XBRCl811'0 THJS 8.lllB; O'BlfBIUL PoWBB8; 1'BBxs .. um
S1TTIN08, 
'IBCl'lol'f 190. Cases in which court of ~peals has jurisdiction.
191. Exceptions and qualifications. 
192. Appeals from certain orders, how heard.
193. Court may make rules.
194. Remittitur; when judgment absolute to be rendered, and proceed- 
ings thereupon.
19ri. Second and subsequent 11.ppe&lff.
196. 'I'imea and places of holcling terms.
197. Court. may be held in any. building ; adjournment&
198. Officers to be appointed by court. 
§ 190. The conrt of appeals has exclusive jurisdiction to review,
npon appeal, every actual determination, made a.t a general term, by
the snpreme.conrt, or by either of the superior city courts, in either of
the following cases, and no others : 
1. Where a. final judgment has been rendered, in an action com­
menced in either of those courts, or brought there from another court;
and, upon such an appeal, to review an interlocutory judgment or in­
termediate order, involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the
final judgment. 
2. Where an order has been made in such an action, attecting a 
substantial right, and not resting in discretion, which either (first) in 
effect determines the action, and prevents a final judgment, or (second)
discontinues the action, or (third) grants or refuses a new trial, or
(fourt.h) strikes out a pleading, or part of a. plea.ding, or (fifth) decides
an interlocutory application, or a question of practice, or (sixth) deter­
mines a statutory provision of the State to be unconstitutional, and the
determination appears from the reasons given for the decision, or ~
necessarily implied in the decision. 
3. Where a final order, affecting a substantial right., has been made
in a. special proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action,
after judgment; and, upon such an appeal, to review any intermediate
order, involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the order appealed
from. 
§ 191. But the jurisdiction, conferred by the last section, is subjeet 
to the following limitations, exceptions, and conditions :
1. An appeal cannot be taken, from an order granting a new trial, 
on a case or exceptions, unless the notice of appeal contains an assent,
on the part of the appe1Jant, that if the order is affirmed, judgment
absolute shall be rendered against the appellant. 
2. An appeal cannot be taken, in an action commenced in a court of
a justice of the peace, or in the marine court of the city of New York, 
or in a district court of that city, or in the city court of Youkers, or in
a justices' court of a city. unless the court below allows the appeal, by
an order made at the general term which rendered the determination,
or at the next general term after judgment is entered thereupon. An
action discontinued because the answer set forth matter showing that
the tit.le to real property came in question, and afterwards prosecuted
in another court, is not deemed to have been commenced in the court
wherein the answer was interposed, within the meaning of this subdivision. 
3. An appeal cannot be taken from a jndgment, or from an order
~nting ~r refnsiu~ a new trial, except in an ac_t.ion or special. p~eed­ 
mg aff'ectmg the title to real property, or an interest therein, 1f the
matter in controversy, excluding costs, is less than five hundred dollars;
unless the court. below, by an order made at the general term which
rendered the determination, or at the next general term after judgment
is entered thereupon, allows the appeal, on the ground that a question
of law is involved, which on~ht to be reviewed by the court of appeals. 
If an appeal is taken, by the plaintifff, from a judgment rendered in
an action not founded upon a contract, the sum for which the complaint
demands judgment., or, if the action is to recover one or more chattels,
the value of the chattels, as stated in the complaint, is deemed to be
the amount of the matter in controversy, within the last subdivision,
unless the defendant has interposed a. counterclaim ; in which case the
counterclaim must be included, in determining the amount in con·
troversy. 
§ 192. An appeal from an order, under subdivision second of the last section but one, except an order which in effect determines the action
and prevents a final judgment, or discontinues the action, or grants or
refuses a new trial upon a case or exceptions, may be noticed for
hearing on a motion day, and beard as a. motion. 
§ 193. The court may from time to time make, alter, and amend, 
rules, not inconsistent with the Constitution or statutes of the State,
regulating the practice and proceedings in the court, and the admission 
of attorneys and counsellors at law, to practice in all the courts of record 
or \he State. 
§ 194. The judgment or order of the court of appeals must be re- 
mitted to the court below, to be enforced according to law. Upon an:;~:~
appeal from an order granting a new trial, on a case or exceptions, if 
the court of appeals determines that no error was committed in granting the new trial, it must render judgment absolute upon the right of 
the appellant ; and after its judgment has been remitted to the court
below, an aseeesment of damages, or any other proceeding, requisite to 
render the judgment effectual, may be had in the latter court.
§ 195. Upon a· second and each subsequent appeal, including a case 
where a former appeal has been dismissed for a defect or irregularity, 
the time of filing the return, upon the first appeal, determines the
place of the cause upon the calendar. 
§ 196. The terms of the court of appeals must be appointed to be
held, at such times and places 88 the court thinks proper, and coniinued as long as the public interest requires. 
§ 197. A term of the court may beappointed to be held in a building,
other than that designated by law for holding courts. A term may be 
adjourned from the place where it is appointed to be held, to another
place in the same city. One or more of the judges may adjourn 
term, without day, or to a day certain.
§ 198. The court may, from time to time, by an order entered in its 
minutes, appoint and remove its clerk, its reporter, and such attendants
u it deems necessary. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
THB CLBBX OF THB CotJRT. 
8Bario:s 1~. Clerk of the court of appeals to give bond; rooms for his office.
200. To appoint a deputy. Powers of deputy. 
201. May employ assistants in his office. Special deputy.
202. Is successor of former clerk of court of appeals. 
208. Money in custody of clerk to be deposited m bank.
004. Clerk to report to court of appeals concerning money. .
~. Amount deposited to be certified by cashier.
206. Court may order money to be invested; restrictions as to drawing 
money from bank.
207. Court may appoint person to examine accounts.
208. Court may ma.ke roles concerning money. 
§ 199. The clerk of the court of appeals, before entering upon the
duties of bis office, mnst subscribe and file the Constitutional oath of
office, aud must execute and file in the Comptroller's office a bond to 
the people of the State, in the penalty of twenty-fl ve thousand dollars,
with two sufficient sureties, approved by the Comptroller and conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of bis office. If the
bond is forfeited by a breach of its condition, the court of appeals must, 
by order, direct an action to be brought thereon. The money recovered 
must be applied, under the direction of the court of appeals, to indem1tlfy the persons aggrieved by the breach, in proportion to their respective losses, and to make good any other loss, occasioned by the breach.
The clerk must keep his office at the city of Albany, and the trustees 
.of the• Biate 1HaU · must assign him suitable· rooms ·· therein for. that 
purpose. 
§ 200. The clerk; by' a writin·~, nnder -his· hand and the seal of the
court, filed in his office, from time to time must appoint, and may at 
pleasure -remose, a deputy-clerk, who is entitled toa t1alary ,fixed and to 
be paid as prescribed by law. Before entering upon his duties, the
deputy-clerk must, subscrlbe and file-in the clerk's office the Constitu­
tiona.I oath of office.· While-the elerk is absent from his office, or from
the sitting of the court, or the office of- clerk is racant, the deputy-clerk 
has all ·the powers and .is subject to all the duties of the clerk.
§ 201. The clerk- may, with the approbation of the* in writ.ingof the 
judges of the court or a majority of them, employ as many assistants in
his office as are necessary. · He may from time to time appoint, and at 
pleasure remove,· his assistants .. Each assiRt.trnt. is entitled to a compensation, fixed and to be paid as-prescribed by law .. The clerk ma.y 
appoint one of his assistante as special deputy-clerk; who peeseseee, in
the absence of the - clerk and the deputy-clerk, the same .power and
authority as the clerk· at any sitting of the court which he attends,
with respect to the business transacted thereat. 
§ 202. All money, stocks, securities, bonds, mortgages and other
things in action, and other property, which were posseeeed by the last 
clerk of the; court of appeals, elected by the people, by virtue of his
office, have been transferred to, and have become possessed by and vested
in, the clerk appointed by the court, as the sueeeseor in office of the
last elected clerk, notwithstanding- the change in the mode of appoint­
ment to the office and in the tenure thereof. 
§ 203. All money now in the custody or under the control. of the
clerk, and all other money which may hereafter be paid to or received 
by him on account of a fund, or in a cause, must be deposited, until
invested e.s prescribed in this article, in such bank or banks as the court 
of appeals directs. Accounts thereof must be kept with the banks in
mauuer and form as the court directs. 
§ 204. On the first Tuesday of January, and on the first Tuesday
of July·trr each· yea.T,· the clerk mnst tratumrit to the chief-judge a state­ 
ment, verified by his affidavit; of all money then remaining in court or 
• hi h d hi h t if
m 18 an s, w ic mus speer y: 
1. The fund or the title of the cause in or on account of which each
sum of money was. paid. 
2. The party by whomit was•paid, and generally for what purpose.
S. The 'time of payment and the amount paid.
4. The bank in which it is deposited.
§ 205. The statement must be aocompe.nied with a certificate of the 
cashier of each bank in which a deposit is stated to have been made, 
1io file' effect that · the total amount. sta~d.·to ea· deposited is. actually in
the bank, placed .. to the credit -of the clerk, as clerk -0f the court of 
appeals, and not mingled with any other account. 
§ 206. The court may, by order, direct any-portion of the money to 
be invested in the public debt of the· State, or of the United Siates,
or in approved interest-bearing mortgages upon real property. It may 
likemanner direct any sum ofi money, or any security, ,o be trans­
ferred or disposed of, as the court thinks proper. The clerk ehall not 
invest any money, except pursuant ,to such ,a direction. Mooey deposited shall not- be drawn from the bank, except on a cheek, signed by
the clerk and oountersigned,by the ·cllief .. judge,. or, in his absence, by
an aesociate judge of the court. 
§ 207. The court may also, from time to time, appoint a suitable 
pi'?SOD to examine the accounts kept by, and the securities in the cus- 
tooy of the clerk, who shall be paid by the Comptroller for that service 
a reasonable sum, certified by the chief-judge.
§ 208. The court may aleo,from time to time, makesuch regulations 
concerning the money and securities speeified in- this article, making
deposits, keeping accounts and drawing money.ea it deems preperj- but 
each regulation so made mllf!t be entered in the minutes. - 
TITLE 8T.&.TB bPOBTJ:R; PoBLIC!.TIOll' ARD DurrRIKUTIOIII' <W 'l'BB REPOR'DI. 
8Bcno11 209. State reporter is the reporter of court of appeals.
210. His duty. 
211. Not to be interested in publication ; contract.a for publieation.
212. Copyright of reports.
213. Secretary of State to distribute report&. . . ·
214. Unreported decisions, etc., to be delivered by repenter to succeseor. •
215. Opinions, etc., not to be delivered, except, etc.
916. Certain opinirns to be deposited with clerk. 
§ 209. The reporter appointed by the court of appeals is styled the
State reporter; and each provision of a statute, wherein the State
reporter is mentioned, applies to the officer thus appointed. · 
§ 210. The State reporter must report every cause, determined in
the court of appeals, which the court directs him, or which the public
interest, in bis judgment, requires him to report. To enable him to
perform that duty, the judges of the court must deliver to him the
written opinions, rendered in each cause so determined. Each decision
of the court, which is reported, mnst be so reported as soon as practicable after it is made; and if the reporter neglects fuithfully to perform.
that dnty, it is the duty of the court to remove him from office. 
§ 211. The State reporter shall not have any pecuniary interest in
the reports ; but a contract for the publication thereof, under his supervision, must, from time to time, be made, in behalf of t~e people, by 
the State reporter, Secretary of State, and Comptroller, with the person
or parsons who agree to furnish to the Secretary of State, so many 
copies of each volume, as may be needed to enable him to comply with the
next section but one; and also ~ P'!blish and sel~ the reports, on terms 
the most advantageous to the pubhc,·regard bemg had to the proper
execution of the work, and at a price not exceeding three dollars for a
volume of not less than five hundred pages. Each contract, so entered
into, must provide for the publication of the reports, for three yea.rs
from the expiration of the time, specified for that purpose in the last
contract. If the State reporter, Hecretary of State, and Comptro1ler
unite in determining, that a contract has not been faithfully kept by
the person or pereons agreeing so to publish the reports, they may, by
an instrument in writing under their bands, filed in the office of the
Secretary of State, annul the same from .a time specified in the instrument; and thereupon they may enter into a new contract, for the
publication of the reports, for three years from the time so specified.
Before entering into a contract, the State reporter, Secretary of State,
and Comptroller must advertise for, receive, and consider propoeals for 
the publication of the reports. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
§ 212. Neither the State reporter nor any other person shall obtain a
copyright for the opinions contained in the reports; and the same mav 
be published by any person. But the copyright of the statements of 
facts, of the bead-notes, and of all other notes or references, prepared
by the State reporter, must be taken by, and shall be vested in the
Secretary of State, for the benefit of the people of the State. 
§ 213. Of the copies of each volume of the reports, furnished to the
Secretary of State, he must deliver one to the clerk. of each county, for
the use of the county, and deposit one in the office of the attorney- 
general, one with the clerk of the court of appeals, for the use of that
court, and three in the State library. 
§ 214. A State reporter must, on the appointment of hie successor,
deliver to him all papers in bis hands, pertaining to a cause which he 
has not reported, or which are not necessary to be retained by him, to
complete the publication of a. volume, which is then partly printed. 
§ 215. A State reporter, after the expiration of bis term of office,
shall not deliver a paper specified in the last section, or a copy thereof, 
to any person other than his successor in office, or the publisher of a
partly printed volume; except that a copy of such a paper may be 
furnished by him, during a vacancy in the office, to a judge of the
court, or to the attorney for a party to the cause to which it .relates. 
§ 216. The State reporter must deposit with the clerk of the court,
all opinions delivered to him, which are not to be reported, imme­
diately after the publication of the reports of the other cases, decided
at the same time. They must be properly filed and preserved, by the 
clerk. 
ARTICLE 1. Jurisdiction and powers; desiJDations of terms ; distribution of busi­
ness among the terms and Judges ; attendants upon the sittings ;
miscellaneous provisions. 
2. The supreme court reporter.
8. Stenographers. 
JuRT8DICTI01' A1'D PoWBRS ; DBSI01U.Tl01' OF TBRX8 ; Dl8TRIBUTI01' OF B081l'f&NI
.uroNtJ THB TBIUls AHD JuooBS; ATTB.lfDAlfT8 UPON TH& 81TT1Nos; M11CBLLAlfBOD6 
PaoVl810l.'f8. 
Th6 suprlYTM court, including the circuit court,.
TITLE II. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
SsCTioN 217. General jurisdiction of supreme court.
218. Supreme court may change place of trial of actions pending in other 
Cl>UMS. . 
219. Judicial departments t general terms.
220. Presiding and associate justices; how long to act.
~1. VacancieR; how tilled. 
222. Assignment of duties to justice whose designation is revoked.
223. Desi~ation, etc., to be filed wit.h Secretary of State. 
224. Presiding and associate justicea may act out of their department.a.
225. Times and places of holding general terms ; how appointed.
226. Appointment to be published.
2'27. Appointment may be made or filed after the prescribed time.
2'JS. When associate justice to preside, etc. 
1229.
Justice in place of one disqualified. 
bcno• 230. General term, held by two justices. Re-argument, etc.
231. When cause to be beard in another department.
232. Appointments of special terms, circuit courts, and court.s of oyer and 
terminer.
233. Publication of appointments.
2M. Governor may appoint extraordinary terms; justices to hold them.
235. General powers and duties of justices.
236. Governor may appoint in New York city, judge of other court to 
bold terms.
237. Govemor to designate justices to bold courts in certain casee.
238. Place of holding the terms.
239. Special terms a.d.Journed to chambers; trials thereat.
240. J udges of superior court of Buffalo may make orders.
241. What judges may perform duties of Justice at chambers.
242. Officers required to attend general term. Sheriff's duty.
248. Fees of such officers ; how paid. 
§ 217. The general jurisdiction in law and equity, which the supreme
eourt of the State possesses, under the provisions of the Constitution, 
includes all the jurisdiction, which was possessed and exercised by the
supreme court of the colony of New York, at any time, and by the
court of chancery in England, on the fourth day of July, seventeen
hundred and seventy-six; with the exceptions, additions, and limitations, created and imposed by the Constitution and laws of the State.
Subject to those exceptions and limitations, the supreme court of the
State has all the powers and authority of each of those courts, and
exercises the same in like manner. 
§ 218. The supreme court, upon the application of either party, may,
and, in a proper case, must make an order, directing that an issue of 
fact, joined in an action or special proceeding, pending in any other
court of record, except a superior city court, the marine court of the city 
of New-York, or a. county court, be tried at a circuit court in another
county, on such terms, and under such regulations as it deems just; and
thereupon the issue must be tried accordingly. After the trial, the
clerk of the county, in which it has taken place, must certify the minutes thereof; which must be filed with the clerk of the court, in which
the action or special proceeding is pending. The subsequent proceedings in the last mentioned court must be the same, as if the issue had
been tried therein. 
§ 219. The departments, into which the State is divided, for the purposes of or!fanizing and holding general terms of the supreme court,
are styled, m this act, judicial departments. There is a general term
of the supreme court in each judicial department, composed of a pre- 
siding justice and two associate justices, designated from the whole
bench of justices of the supreme court, as prescribed in the next two
eections. The justices so designated are styled in this act, general
term justices. 
§ 220. A presiding justice shall act as such, during his official term 
8.8 a justice of the supreme court, and an associate justice for five years
from the thirty-first day of December, next after bis designation; or 
until the earlier close of his official term. But the Governor may, at
any time, upon the written request of a general term justice, revoke 
bis designation.
§ 221. Within three months before a vacancy is to occur by lapse of 
time, or as soon after its occurrence as practicable, the Governor must
designate, from the whole bench or justices of the supreme court, 
another presiding or associate justice, as the case requires. The person 
so designated shall act as presiding or associate justice, for the period 
specified in the last section, When a vacancy occurs, for any cause
except lapse of time, the Governor must· designate a presiding or
associate justice, as the case requires. An associate justice, thus des­
ignated, shall act for bis predecessor's unexpired time, or until the
earlier close of his official term. 
§ 222. Where the Governor revokes the designation of a general term
justice, as prescribed in the last section but one, he may prescribe the 
duties to be performed by that justice, in holding court· hi any part of
the State, from the time of such revocation until the taking effect of
the next appointment of terms, as preseribed in section two hundred and 
thirty-two of this act, for the judicial department to which that justice
belongs. 
§ 223. A designation of a general term justice, or a revocation there­
of, must be in writing, and filed .in the office of the Secretary of State. 
The request of the justice whose designation is revoked, must be filed
with the revocation. 
§ 224. A presiding justice, designated fora judicial department, may
preside at a general term, held in another department, if the presiding 
justice of that department is absent, or disqualified from acting; and
an 8880Ciate justice may act as such, at a general term held in another
department, in place of an associate justice of that department, who is 
in like manner absent or disqualified. 
§ 225. On or before the first day of December, in the year eighteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and each second year thereafter, the general
term justices in each judicial department, or a majority of them, must
appoint the times and places for holding the general terms of the
supreme court, within their judicial department, for two years from the 
first day of January, of the year then next following. They must so
designate at least one general term in each year, to be held in each
of the judicial districts composing the department. 
§ 226. An appointment so made must be signed by the justices mak­
ing it, and filed on or before the fift.eenth day of December of the same 
year, in the office of the Secretary of State; who must immediately
thereafter publish a copy thereof in the newspaper printed at Albany,
in which legal notices are required to be published, at least once in
each week, for four successive weeks. The expense of the publication
is payable out of the treasury of the State. 
§ 227. If an appointment of general terms is not made or filed,
before the expiration of the time specified therefore in the last two sec­
tions, it may be m~e or filed at the earliest convenient time thereafter; 
and the terms appomted thereby may be held pursuant to the same,
after it has been published for the length of time, prescribed in the 
Iast section. 
§ 228. If a presiding justice is not present, at the time and place ap­
pointed for holding a. general term, the associate justice present, having 
the shortest time to serve, or, if two are present, who have the same
time to serve, the elder of them, must act as presiding justice, until a 
presiding justice attends. If only one general term justice is present,
he may select one or two justices of the supreme court, to bold with
him the general term, until two general term justices attend. 
§ 229. A geueral term may be held by two justices ; aud the concur­
reuce of two justices is necessary to pronounce a decision. If two do
not concur, a re-argument must be ordered. 
§ 231. Where au order for a re-argument has been made, as prescribed in the last section, and one of the general term justices of that 
judicial department is not qualified to sit in the cause, the order direct;...~:!'
ing the re-argument may, in the discretion of the general term, direct.hea~
it to t&ke place, and the.cause to· be decided, in another judicial department, specified in the order. And where two of the general term justices, in a. department, are not qualified to sit in a cause, to be heard
at the general term of ·that department, an order may be made.upon
notice; by the .other. general term justice, or at a. special term ,of the
court held in that department, direct.ing that the cause be heard and
decided in another judicial department, specified in the order. But
this seetion does not prevent the cause from being heard· and decided,
in the same judicial department, by two qualified justices, if an order,
directing ihe same to be .heard and decided .in. another department, bu 
not been made. 
§ 232. On or before the fmt day of December, in the year eighteen
hundred and seventy-seven, and every second year thereafter, the justi.ces of the supreme court; for each judicial department, or a majority 
of them, must appoint the times and places for holding the special
terms of the supreme court, and terms of the circuit courts and courts 
of oyer and terminer, within their department, for two years from the 
ftrst day of January of the year next following. 1£, for any reason,
such an appointment is not made before the. expiration of the time so, 
specified, it must be made at the earliest convenient time thereafter .
At least one special term of the supreme court, and two terms of the
circuit court, and of the court of oyer and terminer, must be appointed 
to be held in each year, in each county separately organized. Two or
more terms of the circuit oourt may be appointed ·to be held; and may
be held, at the same time, in the city and county of New York. 
§ 233. An appointment so made must be signed by the justices
ma.king it, and immediately filed in the office of the Secretary of State,
wbo must publish a copy thereof in the newspaper, printed at Albany,
in which legal notices are required to be published, at least once in
each week, for three successive weeks, before the holding of a term in
pursuance thereof. The expense of the publication is payable out of
Uie treasury of the State. 
§ 234. The Governor may, when, .in his opinion, the public Interest
so requires, appoint one or more extraordinary general or special terms 
of the supreme court, or terms of a circuit court, or court of oyer and
terminer, He must designate the time and place of holding the same, 
and name the justice who shall hold, or preside at each term, except e.
general term; and he must give uotice of the appointment, in such
manner as, in .. his judgment, the public interest requires. , . 
§ 235. Any justice of the supreme court has power to -sit at a gen- 
eral term, or to hold a special term of the supreme court, or a term of
the circuit court, or to preside at a term of the court of oyer and terminer, for the whole or any portion·of · tn.e term.; and to act upon any
bueinesa.which regularly comes 'before the term in which be is sitting;
except where he·is personally disqualified from sitting, in .a pa.rtionlM
action or special proceeding. Each · justice must, at all reasonable
times, .wben not engaged in holding court;· transaet snob judicial busi .. 
D888 as may be done out of !Couri. ,
§ 236. The Governor may, when in his opinion, the public interest 
80 requires, designate one or more judges of the superior court. of the
city of New York, or of the court of commor! pl~a.~ for the city a!1d 
county or New York, to hold terms of the circuit court, and special
terms of the supreme court, in that city. The designation m ust be in 
writing, and must specify e~cb te~, and the judge designated to hold
the same. A case or exceptions, ma cause tried at such a term, must 
be settled before the judge who held the same. + 
§ 237. If a general or special term of the supreme court, or a. term
of the circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer, duly appointed, is
in danger of failing, the Governor may designate one or more justices
of the supreme court, as the case requires, to preside at the term of
the court of oyer and terminer, or to hold the term of the supreme
court, or circuit court, in the absence of the justice or justices appointed
to _preside at or hold the same. 
§ 238. The place appointed within each county, for holdin~ a special
term of the supreme court, at which issues of fact are triable, or a 
term of the circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer, must be that
designated by statute, for holding the county or circuit court. 
§ 239. A special term of the supreme court may be adjourned to & 
future day, and to the chambers of any justice of the court, residing
within the judicial district, by an entry in the minutes; and then ad­
journed from time to time, as the justice holding the same directs. An
action triable by the court, without a jury, which was upon the calendar of the term before it was adjourned, may be tried at a term so ad­
journed, and held at chambers, by consent of both parties, but not
otherwise. In that case, the attendance of the clerk, the sheriff, the
crier, or a constable, is not required, unless the justice directs one or
more of those officers to attend. 
§ 240. Each judge of the superior court of Buffalo may, within that
city, make an order in an action or special proceeding, pending in the
supreme court, which a justice of the supreme court may make, out of 
court ..
§ 241. A jud~e of a superior city court, within his city, and a 
county judge, within bis county, possesses, and upon proper appllca­
tion must exercise, the power conferred by law, in general language, 
authorized to perform the duties of a justice of the supreme court at chambers, or out of court. · 
§ 242. A general term must be attended by the sheriff of the
county in which it is held, bis under-sheriff, or one of his deputies;
by two constables or police officers, notified by the sheriff; by a crier
for courts within the county; and by the county clerk, or his deputy,
or special deputy ; all of whom must act under the direction of the
court, or of the presiding justice. The sheriff of the county must
cause the room in which the general term is held to be properly heated,
ventilated, lighted and kept comfortably clean and in order. The court
may enforce the performance of that duty by the sheriff. The sheriff
must also provide the court with all necessary stationery, und minutes­
books, upon the written requisition of the court or of the justice pre­
siding at the term. 
§ 243. The fees of a crier, a sheriff, a constable, or a police officer,
for attending a general term, and all expenses incurred by a sheriff', in 
obedience to the last section, must be audited by the Comptroller, and
paid out of the treasury of the State. The fees and proper charges of
the clerk, for services rendered at or preparatory to a general term, and
not legally chargeable to an attorney or a party, are a county charge. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
TIDI 8UPJUDIB CoUBT RBPoBTBll. 
S.cr1011 244. Designation of supreme court reporter.
245. 1.'erm of office; how appointed and removed. 
246. Meeting for appointment or removal.
24'7. Special meeting for the same purpose. 
248. Papera and opinions to be ful'llished to the reporter.
249. Duty of reporter; no aalary to be paid to him. 
250. Price of the volumes of reports, 
§ 244. The reporter of the decisions of the supreme court is styled
the supreme court reporter; and each/rovision of a statute, wherein 
the supreme court reporter is mentione , applies to that officer. 
§ 245. The term of office of the supreme court reporter is five yee.rs
from the time of his appointment, and until his successor is appointed 
and qualifies. He must be appointed and may be removed, for cause,
by the general term justices of the supreme court, or a majority of such 
of them as attend at a convention, held as prescribed in the next two sections. An appointment or removal must be in writing; it must be
signed by the justices making it, and filed in the office of the Secre- 
tary of State ; otherwise it is of no effect.
§ 246. The general term justices of the supreme court must meet in 
convention, at the capitol in the cit.y of Albany, at noon of the day
when the term of office of the supreme court reporter expires, for the
purpose of appointing a supreme court reporter in his place. If that
day is Sunday or a public holiday, the convention must be held at the
same time and place, 011 the first day thereafter not being Sunday or a
public holiday. If an appointment is not made at such a meeting, it 
may be made at a special meeting of the convention, held as prescribed
in the next section. The supreme court reporter may be removed at 
such a special meeting.
§ 247. A special meeting of the convention, for the appointment or 
removal of a supreme court reporter, must be held at the capitol in the
city of Albany; but it may be adjourned to any other place. It may 
be called by a presiding justice, by writ.ten or printed notice stating
the object of the meeting, and served, personally or through the post- 
office, upon each of the general term justices, at least two weeks before
the time appointed therefore. If the object of the meeting is to consider
the question of the removal of the supreme court reporter, the notice
must be accompanied with a copy of the grounds, a11eged for the removal; and both must be served upon the supreme court reporter, personally, or by leaving them at his last place of residence, with some
person of suitable age and discretion, at least ten days before the time
ap~inted for the meeting. 
§ 248. In each cause heard, at a general term of the supreme court,
the attorney or counsel for each party must deliver to the clerk, for the
use of the supreme court reporter, a duplicate of each paper furnished
by him for the use of the court. The clerk must collect those papers
from the counsel; and immediately after the adjournment of the term,
he must transmit them, and certified copies of all the decisions, made
at that term, to the supreme court reporter, at the latter's expense.
Each judge who renders a written opinion in a cause decided at a general term, must transmit it, or a certified copy thereof, to the supreme 
court reporter, who must pay the expense of transmission, and also,
where a copy is transmitted, the expense of copying, not exceeding 
eight cents for each folio ..
§ 249. The supren ,e court reporter is not entitled to a salary. He 
must report and publish such ,of the decisions at the general or special
terms of the court, as be deems it for the public interest to have
reported. He must also report and publish the decision in a particular 
cause, which the court, at a general or special. term, specially directs
him to report. Not more than three volumes of his reports shall be
published in any one year. · He must prepare for each volume, and 
cause to be published therewith, the usual digest, head notes, tables of
contents, and index. 
§ 250. The supreme court reporter must cause the reports, published
as prescribed in the last section, to be kept constantly for sale to per­
sons within the State, at a price not exceeding two dollars and fifty
cents, for a volume of not less than seven hundred pages. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
8TJnfOGB.&.PHBB8. 
8BCTIOlf 251. StenographeJ'8 ia first district. ·
252. Stenographers for extra terms in New-York city.
253. Stenographers for oyer and terminer in New-York city.
254. Stenographer in Kings county.
255. His assistant.
256. Stenographers in other counties of second judicial district. 
257. Their salaries ; how paid.
258. Stenographers for the remaining districts.
259. Their fi&laries ; how paid.
260. Their expenses; how paid.
261. Actdition&l stenographer when two courts held &t. the same time.
262. Temporary stenographer. 
§ 251. The justices of the supreme court for the first judicial dis­
trict, or a majority of them, -must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, 
a stenographer for each term of the circuit court, and for each special
term of the supreme court, where issues of fact are triable, which con­
stitutes a separate part. Each stenographer so appointed is entitled 
to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must attend
all the sittings of the part, for which be is appointed. If the judge
requires a copy of any proceedings, written out at length from the
stenographic notes, be may make an order, directing one-half of the
stenographer's fees therefore, to be paid by each of the parties to the
action or special proceeding, at the rate of ten cents for each folio so
written out, and may enforce payment thereof. If there are two or
more parties on the same side, the order may direct either of them to 
pay the sum payable by their side, for the stenographer's fees; or it
may apportion the payment .thereof among them, as the judge deems
just. 
§ 252. The judge who holds, in the first judicial district, an extra­
ordinary term of the circuit court, or an extraordinary special term of the
supreme conrt, must appoint a stenographer for that term, who is enti- 
tied to a compensation, at the rate and in the manner prescribed by law
for the official stenographer. 
§ 258. The judge presiding at a term of the court of oyer and
terminer, held in and for the city and county of New-York, must detsig- 
nate a stenographer 0£ t.he. supreme court, to act as stenographer for
that term during its sitting, who is not entitled to any compensation 
in addition to his salary; except that, if a copy of any proceedings,
written out at length from the stenographic notes, is required for the 
use of the presiding judge or the district-attorney, the stenographer's
fees therefore are payable, on his certificate, as a. county charge. 
§ 254. The justices of the supreme court for the second judicial district, residing in the. county of Kings, or a majority of them, must 
appoint, and way at pleasure remove, a stenographer, to be attached 
to the supreme court, circuit court, and court.of oyer and terminer, in
and for the county of Kings. The stenographer so appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must
attend each term of the supreme court, at which issues of fact are
triable, and each term of the circuit court. and court of oyer and
terminer, held iu the county of Kings. 
§ 255. The stenographer; appointed as prescribed in the lastsection,
may, with the consent of the judge holdiug or presiding at a special 
term of the supreme court, or term of the circuit court, or court of oyer
and terminer, employ an assiataut-etenographer, to aid him in the discharge of. his duties at that term, whose compensation must be paid
by the. stenographer, and shall not become a county charge. 
§ 256. Ea.ch justice of the supreme court for the. second judicial district, who does not reside in the couuty of Kings, must appoint, and 
may at pleasure remove, a stenographer, who must attend, as directed
by the justice appointing him, the general and special terms of the 
supreme court, and the terms of the circuit court and court of oyer
and terminer, held in the counties of Suffolk, Queens, Richmond, Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, Dutchess, or Orange, and, when not thus
officially engaged, the stated terms of the county court, in each of those 
counties. 
§ 257. Each stenographer, appointed as prescribed in the last section,
is entitled to a salary fixed by law. To make up and pay the salaries,
the board of supervisors of each of the said counties must annually 
levy, and cause to be collected, as a county charge, a proportionate part
of the sum necessary to pay the same, to be fixed by the Comptroller
of the State, in accordance with the amount of the taxable real and
personal property in each county, as shown by the last annual assess­ 
ment-roll therein. The treasurer of each county must pay over the
sum so raised, to the Comptroller of the State, who must thereupon PJtY
the salary of each stenographer, in equal quarterly payments, under
the direction of the justice making the appointment. 
§ 258. The justdces of the supreme court, or a majority of them, for
each judicial district of the State, except the first and second, must 
appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a. stenographer of the supreme 
court in that district. The justices of .the supreme court for the third
judicial district, or a majority of them, may, in their discretion, 
appoint, and at pleasure remove, an additional stenographer, of the
supreme court in that district. Each stenographer, so appointed, is
entitled to a salary fixed by law, to be paid as prescribed in the next section. He must attend, within the judicial district, the terms of the
circuit courts and courts of oyer and termiuer, aud the special terms
of the supreme court, where issuee of fact are triable. 
§ 259. The clerk of the county, in which a term of a court. specified
in the last section. is held, must furnish the stenographer attending 
the same, with a certificate of the number of days the. term has been 
U h
in session. pon t e certifica~s so furnished, the supreme court, at a 
special term thereof held within the judicial district, may, not oftener
than once in six months, by order, apportion to each county in the
district, such a proportion of the stenographer's salary, as the number
of days during which one or more terms were in session in that county,
bears to the whole number of days, during which the terms were in
session in that district, since the last apportionment was made. Upon
the presentation of a certified copy of such an order, each county
treasurer must pay to the stenographer, from the court fund, or the
fund from which jurors are paid, the sum so apportioned to his county. 
§ 260. Each of those stenographers is also entitled to payment of his
actual and necessary expenses, while attending court, including station­
ery, and ten cents for each mile for his actual travel, between the place
of holding each term and his residence, going and returning, or from 
term to term, as the case may be. The amount thereof must be cer­
tified by the judge holding or presiding at the term, and must be paid,
upon bis certificate, by the treasurer of the county where the term is
held, from the court fund, or the fund from which jurors are paid.
But mileage shall not be computed beyond the bounds of the judicial
district, except where the usual line of travel, from one point to another
within that district, passes partly through another judicial district. 
§ 261. Where two or more terms, at which the stenographer would
be required to attend, by the provisions of section two hundred and 
fifty-eight of this act, are appointed to be held at the same time, the
justices of the supreme court, assigned to hold or preside at the same,
may designate the term at which the stenographer for the district mus!
attend, . and may employ an additional stenographer to attend each
other term. In that case, they must, by a certificate signed by them,
fix a reasonable sum for the payment of bis services and actual neces­
sary expenses, to and from, and while attending the term. The sum
so fixed must be paid by the treasurer of the county, upon the certifi­
cate, from the court fund, or the fund from which jurors are paid; and
the number of days, during which that term was in session, shall not
be taken into account, in ma.king an a.pportionmeut of salary, as pre­
scribed in section two hundred and fifty-nine of this act. 
§ 262. Where an official stenographer, or his assiatant, is not in
attendance, at a term of the circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer, 
or at a special term of the supreme court, where issues of fact are tri­
able, the judge holding or presiding at the term, may, in his discretion,
em_ploy a stenographer, who must be paid such a compensation, as the
judge fixes by his certificate, not exceeding ten dollars for each day's
attendance, and ten cents for each mile, for travel to and from his
residence, to the place where the term is held, together with a reason­
able sum for stationery. The sum so fixed is a charge upon the county,
in which the term is held, and the county treasurer must pay it, upon
the judge's certificate, from the court fund, or the fund from which
jurors are paid. If it was the duty of an official stenographer, or his
assistant, to attend the term, and it does not appear to the satisfaction
of the judge, that the failure to attend was excusable, the judge may,
in bis discretion, during or after the adjournment of the term, make 
an order that the sum so paid, or any part thereof, be deducted from
the salary of the official stenographer, and that the county have such
credit therefore, as justice requires. Such an order may be revoked by
the judge who made it, upon proof by affidavit, that the failure to
attend was excusable. 
ARTIcle 1. Provisions applicable to all the superior city courts.
2. Provisions exclusively applicable to the court of common pleas for the 
city and county of New-York, and the superior court of the city of
New-York. 
8. Provisions exclusively applicable to the superior court of Buff'alo.
4. Provisions exclusively applicable to the city court of Brooklyn. 
PRoVISI01'8 APPLIOABLB TO A.LL TB• SUPBRIOB CITY Comrrs. 
a.mow !a68. General jurisdiction of the superior city courts.
264. Domestic corporations, ete., when deemed residents, etc.
265. Where there are two or more defendants.
266. Jurif'diction to be presumed; want of jurisdiction matter of defense.
267. Jurisdiction, etc., to be co-extensive with that of supreme court.
268. Id.; in special proceedings out of court.
269. Actions, ete., may be removed into supreme court.
270. Where, and in what cases, order for removal to be granted. 
271. Appeal from order of removal.
272. Order to stay proceedings to procure removal.
273. Removal to supreme court, when Judges of city court cannot act. 
274. Removal from supreme court to city court, by consent. 
275. Duty of clerks when removal made.
276. Removal not to a.ff'ect validity of former proceedings, etc.
977. When county judge may make order.
278. Power to fiend process to any county.
279. Proceedings commenced before one judge may be continued before 
another.
280. Appointment of terms, etc.
281. General terms by whom held, etc.
289. Id. ; special and trial terms.
283. New records, etc., in place of those mutilated or injured.
284. Clerks and deputy-clerks. 
j85. Special deputy-clerks. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
§ 268. The civil jurisdiction of each of the superior city courts extends 
to the following actions and special proceedings, in addition to the
juriediction, power and authority conferred upon it, in a particular 
b
• 1 tat t • • 
TITLE III. 
Th8 ,uperio,- city C<YU,rl,a. 
ease, y specra s u ory prcvrsion :
1. To an action of ejectment; for the partition of real property; for 
dower; to foreclose a mortgage upon real property or upon a chattel
real ; to compel the determination of a claim to real property ; for
waste; for a nuisance; or to procure a judgment directing a convey­
ance of real property; and to every other action to recover, or to pro­
cure a judgment, establishing, determining, defining, forfeiting, annul­
ling or otherwise affecting an estate, right, title, lien or other interest
in real property or a chattel real. But jurisdiction attaches under this
mbdivision only where the real property to which the e.ction relates is
situated within the city where the court is located. 
2. To an action for any other cause, where the cause of action arose
within that city; or where the defendant is a resident of that city ; or
where the summons is personally served upon the defendant therein ;
or where the action is brought to recover a penalty, or for any other 
cause of action given by the charter, a by-law or an ordinance of
that city. 
3. To an action to recover damages for an injury to real property, or
a chattel real ; or for the breach of a contract, express or implied, re)at­
ing to real property or a chattel real; where the real property is situ·
ated within that city,or where the defendant is a resident of that city, or
where the summoua.is personally served. upon the defendant therein. 
: · 4 .. To an action to . recover a chattel ; to foreclose or enforce a lien
upon -personal property ; or t& recover damages for an injury to personal
property; where the property to which the action relates is situated
within that city at the time when the action is commenced. If the
property consists of one or more shares in the capital stock of a domestic
corporation or joint-stock association, whose principal place of buainees
is located or established· within that city, or of a debt due from, or
money, or a thing in action, in the posseesion or under the control of,
such e. co.rpon.tion or jQintretock aeeociation, it is deemed to be situated
within that city, within the meaning of this subdivision. 
5. To a judgment creditor's action ; where the judgment upon which
the action is founded was recovered in the same court. _ 
-6. -To an action .for any cause brought by a resident of the city
wherein the court is· located, against a natural person, who is not a
resident of the State. 
7. To an action brought by a resident of that city against a foreign
corporation, either (one) to recover damages for the breach of a contract,
express or impliedvoe a sum payable by the terms of a contract, express
or implied, where tbe contract was made, executed or delivered within
the State, or where the cause of action arose within the State; or (two)
where a warrant of attachment, granted in the action, has been actually
levied, within that city, upon property of the corporation ;' or (three)
where the summons is served by delivery of a copy thereof, within that 
city, ·to an offi<·er oft.be corporation, asfrescribed by law.
8. To the custody of the person an the care of the property, con­ 
currently with the supreme court, of a person residing in that cit.y, or
residing without the State and sojourning in that city, who is incompe­
tent to· manage his affairs by reason of lunacy, idiocy or habitual
drnnkenness ; and to any special proceeding which the supreme court
hns jurisdiction to entertain, for the appointment of a committee of the
person or of the property of such ,an Incompetent person, or for the sale
or other disposition of the real property, situated within that city, of a
person, wherever resident, who is so incompetent, or who is an infant;
or for the sale or other disposition of the property, or the voluntary dis­
solution oC a domestic corporation, whose principal place of business is
located or established within that city ; or for the sale or other disposi­
tion of the real property, situated within that city, of a domestic cor­ 
poration, wherever it is located.
9. To any other special proceeding which the supreme court has 
jurisdiction to entertain, where the person against whom it is brought
is a resident of that city, or the mandate by which the special proceed­
ing is commenced is personally served upon him within that city, or all
the acts or omissions upon which it is founded were done or committed
within that city, or the subject thereof is situated within that city; or
where the special proceeding is brought for such a purpose, or under
such circumstances that the superior city court would have jurisdiction
of an. action for the like purpose, or under the like circumstances, by
the terms of subdivision first of this section. 
§ 264. For the purpose or determining the jurisdiction or a superior 
city court, in a case specified in the last section, a domestic corporation 
or joint stock association, whose principal place or business is estab- 
lished, by or pursuant to a. statute, or by its articles of association, or is
actually located, within the city wherein the court is located, is deemed 
a resident of that city; and personal service of a summons, made
within that city, as prescribed in this act, or personal service of a man- 
date, whereby a special. proceeding is commenced, made within that 
city, as prescribed in this act for personal service of a summons, is sufficient service thereof upon a domestic corporation, wherever it is
located. 
§ 265. Where an action or a special proceeding is brought against
two or more parties, and tbe jurisdiction of a superior city court
depends upon the residence of a party, within the city wherein the 
conrt is located; or personal service upon him, within that cit,y, of the
summons or the mandate for the commencement of the special pro­ 
ceeding; or the levying of a warrant of attachment within that city;
and jurisdict.iou is thus acquired as against one or more, but not as
against all of them, t.he jurisdiction, with respect to the others, is governed by the following rules: 
1. Where the action or special proceeding is founded upon a con­ 
tract, upon which two or more persons are jointly liable, and the court
has or acquires jurisdiction thereof, as against one of them, it has juris­
diction thereof as against all the persons so jointly liable. But this subdivision does not extend to a. case, where the liability is several, as
well as joint. 
2. Where an action or a special proceeding brought against a public
officer, together with one or more private persons, is founded upon an
official act or omission; or where an action or a special proceeding
broughtagainstacorporation, togetherwithoneor more natural persons, 
is founded upon an act or omission of the corporation ; and the court
has or acquires jurisdiction thereof, as against the public officer or the
corporation ; it has jurisdiction thereof as against all persons, who are
necessary parties to the complete determination of the controversy. 
3. Where it is not necessary to the complete determination of the
controversy, that all the parties thereto should be subjected to the juris­
diction of the court, the action or· special proceediug may be discon­ 
tinned or dismlssed, as to the parties over whom the court has not
jurisdiction, and proceed as to the others, as if they were the only par­
ties against whom it was brought. 
§ 266. The jurisdiction of a superior city court, in an action or a
special proceeding brought therein, must always be presumed. It is 
t
, th . l . t • h ti . th 
not necessary to se tor m a comp am 111 sue au ac ion, or m e
petition or other statement of the case in such a special proceeding, any 
of the jurisdictional facts specified in section two hundred and sixtythree of this act ; and where the defendant in the action, or the person
against whom the special proceeding is instituted, appears, the want
of jurisdiction, by reason of the non-existence or any of those facts, is
matter of def ence, and is waived by the appearance, unless it is 
pleaded in defense.
§ 267. Where a superior city eonrt has jurisdiction of an action or 
special proceeding, it posseesee the same jurisdiction, authority, aud
power, in and over the same, and in the course of the proceedings 
therein, whic!• the supreme court po.ssesses in a like cas~; and .it may
render any Judgment, or· grant either party any rehef, which the 
supreme court might render or grant in a like case, and may enforce
its mandates in like manner as the supreme court. And each ju~e 
of the superior city court possesses the same power and authority, m
the action or special proceeding, which a justice of the supreme court
possesses, in a like action or special proceeding, brought in the supreme
court. 
§ 268. Each judge of a superior city court also possesses the same
power and authority, in a special proceeding', which can be )awfully 
instituted before him, out of court, which a juetice of the supreme
court possesses in a like special proceeding, instituted before him in 
like manner.
§ 269. The supreme court may, by an order, made at any time after 
joinder of an issue of fact, and before the trial thereof, remove to itself
an action or a special proceeding pending in a superior city court, for 
the purpose of changing the place of trial or hearing thereof. Where
an order for a removal is made, as prescribed in this section, the place
of trial or hearing must be changed by the same order to another
county. A certified copy of the order must be filed in the office of the
clerk of the court, in which the action or special proceeding was com­
menced. Thereupon it is removed into the supreme eourt ; and the
subsequent proceedings therein must be the same, as if it had been
oriBi:nally brought in the supreme court. 
§ 270. An order for the removal of an action or special proceeding,
as prescribed in the last, section, can be made only upon notice, and
by a special term of the supreme court, where the motion might be 
made, if the action or special proceeding was pendin~ in the supreme
court, and brought in the county where the snpenor city court is
located ; and in a case, where an order, changing in like manner the
place of trial or hearing, would be granted, if the action or special
proceeding was pending in the supreme court. 
§ 271. An appeal from an order, made upon such a motion, must be
taken and heard in like manner, as if the action or special proceeding 
was pending in the supreme court, and triable in the county from which
the place of trial is changed. Such an appeal brings up t.o the ,z-eneral 
term, and thence to the court of appeals, if the order is appealable to 
that court, all questions which were before the special term, and the
appellate tribunal must dispose of the same, as if they were originally 
presented to it.
§ 272. An order to stny proceedings, for the purpose of affording an 
opportunity to make such an application for removal, may be made by
a. judge, authorized to make au order to stay proceedings, either in
the court where the action or special proceedin~ is pending, or in the 
RUfreme court, and with like effect, and under hke circumstances.
§ 273. If all the judges of a superior city court are, for any reason, 
incapable of Hitting upon the. trial of an action, or the hearing of a.
special proceedin~ pending therein, or if all, or all but one, of the
judges of a supenor city court are incapable of sitting upon the hear­ 
ing of an appeal therein, the judges of the court, or a majority of them,
must make and file in the office of the clerk of the court a certificate
of the fact. Thereupon the action or special proceeding is removed to
the supreme court; and the subsequent proceedings therein must be
the same as if it had been originally brought in the supreme court. 
§ 274. The supreme court, where the parties manifest in writing
their consent, must make an order directing that an action or special
proceeding, pending in that court and triable in a county where a 
81lperior city court is located, be removed to the superior city court, or,
in the city of New York; to either of those courts therein, as specified 
in the consent. A certified copy of the order must be filed in the office 
or the clerk of the court to which the action or special proceeding is
ordered to be removed. Thereupon it is removed aceordin~ly; and all
subsequent proceedings therein must be the same as if It had been
or~nally brought in the superior cit,y court. 
§ 275. Where an action or special proceeding is removed from one
court to another, as prescribed in this article, the clerk of the court 
from which it is removed must forthwith deliver to the clerk of the
court to which it is removed all papers filed therein, and certified 
copies of all minutes and entries relating thereto, which must be filed,
entered, or recorded, as the case requires, in the office of the last mentioned clerk. If the action or special proceeding is removed to the
supreme court, and the place of trial or hearing changed, the delivery
must be made to the clerk of the county in which the order of removal
direets the trial or hearing to be had. 
§ 276. The removal of an action or special proceeding, as prescribed
in this article, does not invalidate or in any manner impair, a process, 
provisional remedy, or other proceeding, or a bond, undertaking, or
rec~izance, in the action or special proceeding 80 removed i each of 
which continues to have the same validity and effect as if the removal
had not been made. Where bail has been given, the surrender of the
defendant in the court to which the action or special proceeding was
removed, has the same effect as a surrender in the court from which it
was removed would have had if the action or special proceeding had
remained therein. 
§ 277. In an action or special proceeding brought in a superior city
court, an order may be made without notice, or an order to stay pro- 
ceedings may be made upon notice by the county judge of the county
where the court ia situated, or of the county where the attorney for the 
applicant resides, in a case where a jud~ of the superior city court
~M make the same out of court, and with like effect. 
§ 278. A superior city court has power, in an action or special proceediog of which it has jurisdiction, to send its process and other man- 
dates into any county of the State, for service or execution, and to enforce
obedience thereto, with like power and authority as the supreme court. 
§ 279. A special proceeding, instituted before a judge of the superior court of Buffalo, or the city court of Brooklyn, or a proceeding 
commenced before a judge of either of those courts, out of court, in an
action or special proceeding pending in his court, may be continued, 
from time to time, before one or more other judges of the same court,
as prescribed by law, with respect to like proceedings, before a judge 
of a court or record in the city of New York.
§ 280. The judges of each superior city court, or a majority of them, 
must, from time to time, appoint the times for holding the ~eneral,
special and trial terms of their court. They must also e.ss1gn the 
judges to hold each or the terms, and desirate the trial terms at
which i88ues of fact are triable by a jury. general, a special, and 
· one or more trial terms, may be appointed to be held, and may be held,
at the same time. The judges, or a. majority of them, must also
appoint reasonable times, when a judge must attend at chambers, and
deiiignate the judge to attend for that purpose. Each appointment,
made as prescribed in this section, m~ be signed by the judges
making the sa.me, and filed· in the clerks office. A copy thereof must 
Gl 
be published in the newspaper printed in Albany, ia · whieh legal
notices are required to be published, and hi two newspapers prinf.ed
in the city where the conrt is located, at least once in each week· for
ihree successi ve .weeks, before a term is held by virtue thereof. : . 
§ 281. A general term of a superler city court must· be held by ai
least two judges. Two mnst concur to determine a cause; otherwise, 
it must be reheard; except that if the remaining judge or judges a.re 
disqualified to sit upon an appeal, ihe judgment or order appealed
from must be affirmed, unless a rehearing is directed. 
§ 282. A special term or a trio.I term of a superior city court moat be
held by one judge. , 
§ 283. When the chief-ju~e of a auperior city court certifies, that a
book of minutes, records, indiees, or dockets of judgments, in the offi.oe
of the olerk of the court, has become so mutilated or injured, that it 
cannot be . conveniently used or correctly examined, the clerk of the 
court muai cause a copy thereof to be made. The expense of making
the copy, not exceeding ten cents for each folio, is a charge, in the city
of New York, upon that city, and, in the city of Buffalo, or the city of
Brooklyn, upon the county where the court is located ; and it must be
paid by the comptroller of the city of New York, or the county treas­
urer, as the case requires, upon the certificate of the clerk, that the
copy was made pursuant to bis direction. The copy, when certified
by the clerk to be a correct copy of the original, has, presumptively,
the effect of the original. ·. The original must be preserved, and may
be referred to at any time, by the direcGon c-f a ju~e of the court. 
§ 284. Each superior city court bas a clerk, who 18 appointed, and
may be removed at pleasure, by the judges of the court, or a majority 
of them. Each.clerk, by a.writing under bis hand and the seal of the
court, filed in his office, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a
deputy .. clerk. The deputy-clerk bas all .the powere, and may perform
all the duties of the: clerk, when the office of clerk is vacant, or at the
clerk's office, when the clerk is absent therefrom, or at a term or
sitting of the court, which the deputy-clerk atiends. Each clerk and
each deputy-elerk must subscribe, and file in the clerk's offioe, .the Con­
stitutional oath of office; .a.nd is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be 
= prescribed by law poseeBBes,the same powers as the clerk, at a Bitting 
paid as prescribed by law.
§ 286. A special deputy-clerk of a superior city· court, appointed 88 
or term of the comt wb.ieh he attends, with , respeci to the business 
tn.D8acted thereat. 
TITLE '8 BXCLU~IVSLT APPLICAllLB TO TBB Comrr 01' OoJO(Olf ~ l'()Jl TBll 
CITY AND Cou!fn oP NBW You,• A1fD TB•. SuPBmoa CoUBT ol' TBB CITY OI' 
NBw Yoas:. 
8•crro1' 286.- Special juriediction, of the common pleae, 
· 287. Each court t.o.collllist of six judgeaJ caief·judRe.
~ Assistance, etc., in clerks' offlcee. 
289. Stenographers.
290. Stenographer for extra term. 
§ 286. In addition to the jurisdiction defl.ned in Metion1 two hundred
and lixtr-th!ee, · two hundred and aixty .. four and two hundred and 
mxty- ve of this act, the court of common pleas for the clt.y and county 
of New York, bas power and jurisdiction to vacate and set aside a
judgment, entered in any court held within that city and county, upon 
a forfeited recognizance, upon the terms and conditions specially prescribed by law for that purpose; ~ ·remit afine or forfeited recognizance, in a case where a county court can remit -the· same, and in like
manner ; and to entertain any special proceeding, which, in any
county except New York, may be instituted in the county court. 
§ 287. The court of eommon pleae·f'or·the ·city and co1111ty of New
York, and the superior eourt of the tity of' New York, consist of six· 
judges for each court; one of whom mn1t from time to time, as e. vacancy
occurs,

be appointed chief judge .of his court,' e.s prescribed in 
the Constitution. 
§ 288. The clerk of each of those courts may appoint and at pleasnre
remove, such special deputy-clerks and other assistants, as he deems 
necessary; but a special deput.y-elerk or an assistant, so appointed, 'is
not entitled to any compensation out of the treasury of the city of New
York, unless his compensation is fixed by law, or allowed pursuant to 
law.
§ 289. The judges of each of those courts, or a majority of them, 
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer for each
term of the court, for the trial of issues of fact, constituting a distinct 
part. Each stenographer so appointed is entitled· to· a salary, fixed
and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must attend all the sittings 
of the part for which he is appointed. If the [udge requires a copy
of any proceedings, written out at length from the stenographic notes,
he may make an order directing one-half of the stenographer's fees
therefore, to be paid by each of the parties to the action or special pro­
ceeding, at the rate of ten cents for each folio so written out, and may
enforce payment thereof. If there are two or more parties on the same
side, the order may direct either of them to pay the sum payable by
their side, for the stenographer's fees, or it may apportion the payment
thereof among them, as the judge deems just. 
§ 200. The judge who bolds an extraordinary trial term of either of
those courts, must appoint a stenographer for that term, who is subject 
to all the provisions of law relating to an assistant stenographer, and
is entitled to a compensation, at the rate and in the manner prescribed
by law for the official stenographer. 
§ 291. The judges of each of those courts, or a majority of them,
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, one erier for their court. 
. Each crier so appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid u
prescribed by law. He is not entitled to any other compensation. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
PBovis10Ns BXCLUSTVBLY .lPPLICABLB TO THB Sup11:a1oa Coua.r OI' BDl'l'.U.O. 
8BOTioll' 292. Additional jurisdiction.
· 29S. Id. ; in ~pecial proceedings. 
294. Exclusive powers in certain caeee.
295. Court to consist of three ju<l~es; chief-Judge.
296. N um her of general and trial terms.
297. Demurrers to be tried at general term. 
298. Clerk may charge fees. 
iliS 
8BOTIOlf 299. Deputy-clerk and special deputy-clerk.
800. Stenographer. 
801. Crier. 
802. Sheriff', eonstablea, etc., to att.end court ; special powers in contempt
caees, etc. 
303. A8Bessors to return jury list.
804. Drawing trial jurors.
805. Notifying trial juron; their fees.
806. Additional juron may be ordered. 
§ 292. In addition to the jurisdiction defined in sections two hun­
dred and sixty-three, two hundred and sixty-four, and two hundred
and sixty-five of this act, the jurisdiction of the superior court of
Buffalo extends to the following actions and special proceedings : 
1. To an action founded upon a contract, where the defendant, or, if
there are two or more defendants, where either of them, it1 a resident
of that city, or occupies a tenement, for the transaction of bis or their
ordinary business, in that city; or where the summons is served upon
either of them in that city; or where the contract was made in t.hat
city. 
2. To an action for any other cause, where the defendant, or, if there
are two or more defendants, where all the defendants proceeded against,
occupy a tenement in that city, for the trausaction of their ordinary·
business. 
8. To an action to recover damages against one or more common car­
riers, not being residents of the State, where the defendant, or, if there
are two or more defendants joirrt.ly liable, where one of them has prop­
erty in that city. 
4. To an action against a domestic corporation, which transacts its
general business in that city, or has an office or agency in that cit.y,
for the transaction of business; or against a foreign corporation, which
bas property in that city, or an agency therein. 
5. To an action or special proceeding against the city of Buffalo, or
an officer thereof. · 
§ 293. The court also possesses and exercises, within the <.ity of
Buffalo, in any matter which arises, or the subject whereof is located 
or situated within that city, jurisdiction, power and authority, concurrent and co-extensive with those conferred upon the supreme court, in
a like case, by any statutory provision. 
§ 294. The court also possesses exclusive jurisdiction and power as
follows: 
1. Where an action, commenced in a justice's court in the city of
Buffalo, bas been discontinued upon the delivery of an undertaking, .
because the title to real property came in question, it possesses exclu­
sive j nrisdiction of an action for the same cause, brought pursuant to
the undertaking. 
2. It has exclusive power to remit a fine imposed or a recognizance
eetreated by it. 
§ 295. The court consists of three judges; one of whom must, from
be d h f. ' dg 
time to time, as a vacancy occurs, appointe c ie -ju e, as pre- 
scribed in the Constitution. 
§ 296. At least four general terms and six trial terms of the court
must be appointed to be held in each year. 
§ 297. teAn issue of law in an action in the court must be tried ai the 
genera rm. 
§ 298. The clerk of the court is entitled, in addition to bis salary,
for any service performed by him, to the fee allowed by law to a
county clerk, for a similar service, performed in the supreme court, or 
the court of oyer and terminer.
§ 299. Where the deputy-clerk of the court dies, resigns, removes 
from the city, is removed from office, or becomes otherwise incapable
of acting, the clerk must appoint a deputy-clerk in his place. The
clerk, if the judges of the court, or a majority of them, deem it neces- 
sary for the proper transaction of its business, Crom time to time must
appoint, and may at pleasure remove, in the manner prescribed by law
for the appointment and removal of a deputy-clerk, a special deputyclerk, whose compensation must be paid by the clerk. 
§ 800. The judges of the court, or a majority of them, must appoint,
and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer of the court, who is enti- 
tied to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He must
aitend each term of the court, where issues of fact in civil or criminal
causes are triable. If the judge requires a copy of any proceedings,
written out at length from the stenographic notes, he may make an
order directing the stenographer's fees therefore, at the rate of six cents
for each folio so written out, to be paid as follows: 
1. In a civil action or special proceeding, by the party entitled to
costs upon the verdict, decision, or report; who may tax the sum paid 
therefore, as a disbursement.
2. In a criminal action or special proceeding, QY the county treasurer 
of Erie county, as a county charge. But, in such a case, the judge
may fix such a sum, not exceeding the rate specified in this section, as
he deems proper. 
§ 301. The judges, or a majority of them, from time to time must
appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a crier for the court, who is
entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. He is
not entitled to any other compensation. 
§ 302. The sheriff' of the county of Erie, or his under-sheriff, or a
deputy-sheriff, designated by him, and as many policemen of the city 
of Buffalo, as the court directs, must attend each term of the court.
A policeman, in attendance upon a term of the court, may, under the 
direction of the judge presiding at or holding the term, notify talesmen or additional jurors, and execute a mandate of the court, issued in 
a case of contempt, with like effect and in like manner as if he wa,, the
sheriff. But a policeman is not entitled to any fees, or other compensation, except bis salary, for a service performed by him, as prescribed 
in this section.
§ 303. The assessors of the city of Buffalo must, in the month ,)f May 
in each year, make out, return, and file with the clerk of the eourt, a
list of not less than six hundred residents of that city, not exempt from
jmy duty, qualified to serve as trial jurors in the court. For t·hat purpose, the assessors may, in their discretion, associate the clerk of the
court with them. The court, at any term thereof, may, from time to
lime, make an order, directing the assessors to make out and file,
within a time specified in the order, a new list of jurors, or a list of
l.4y number of additional jurors; and it may punish an omission to 
obey such an order, as a contempt.
§ 304. At least fourteen days before the time appointed for holding 
1, term of the court, where issues of fact in civil or criminal causes are
triable, the clerk of the court, in the presence of a judge thereof, must 
draw from the list so returned by the assessors, the names of thirty-six 
persons, or such other number 8.8 the court, at any term thereof, directs,
to serve 8.8 trial jurors. The drawing must be conducted 8.8 prescribed
by law, for the drawing of trial jurors by a county clerk, exeeptthat
notice thereof is not necessary. A list of the names of the persona
drawn must be certified by the clerk and attending judge, and deliv­
ered to the sheriff of Erie county. 
§ 805. The sheriff must thereupon notify each of the persons 80 
drawn, as prescribed by law for notifying a juror drawn to attend & 
term of the circuit court. Before the first day of the term, the sheriff
must file the list with the clerk, accompanied with his return, specify­
ing who were notified, and the manner in which each person was
notified. The clerk must make the same disposition of the ballots1 
containing the names of the jurors who have served, of those who did
not appear, and of those who were discharged, as prescribed by law,
with respect to the circuit court. Each juror, attending a term of the
court, must be paid by the county of Erie, the same compensation as & 
juror attending the circuit court.
§ 806. At a term where issues of fact, in civil or criminal causes, are 
triable, the court may, in its discretion, direct additional jurors to be
drawn from any list returned by the assessors, and require the sheriff,
or a policeman in attendance upon the term, forthwith to notify. them
to attend ; and if a person so drawn cannot be found, the court may
cause his name to be returned to the box. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
PRovrstolfS EXCLUSIVBLY .lPPLIOABLB TO TBll CITY Cot1ll'1' O"I' BBoonnr. 
8Bo'l'Io1' 807. Court con&ista of three judges; chief-judge.
808. Court always open; number of trial terms. 
809. Appointment of deputy clerk and &SBist&nta to clerk.
810. Clerk may charge fees. 
SU. 8beri11', ete., to attend terms. 
812. Expenses to be a county charge.
813. Stenographers. 
§ 807. The city court of Brooklyn consists of three jud~es; one of
whom must, Crom time to time, as a vacancy occurs, be appomted chief­ 
judge of the court, as prescribed in the Constitution. 
§ 808. The court is alwaYB open for the transaction of any business,
for which notice is not required to be given to an adverse party. Ai
least ten terms thereof, for the trial of issues of law or of fact, must 
be appointed to be held in each year. .
§ 809. The judges of the court, or a majority of them, may appoint 
as many special deputy clerks and assistants in the clerk's. office as
they deem necessary. Each officer 80 appointed is entitled to aaal&ry, 
fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
§ 810. The clerk of the court is entitled, in addition to his salary, 
for any service performed by him, to the fee allowed by law to a county
clerk, for a similar service. 
§ 311. The sheriff of the county of Kings, his under-sheriff', or a. 
deputy-sheriff, designated by him, must attend each term or sitting of
the court. If & deputy sheriff is designated to attend he shall be 
entitled to the same compensation as is allowed by law to meseengera
and attendants upon said court, and shall be paid in the same manner.
The judge or judges holding the term may require more than one
depnty sheriff to attend should it, be deemed necessary. . 
§ 312. The expenses of the court are a county charge, and muat.b&
&llowed and pa.id in like manner as other county charges. 
§ 813. The judges of the court, or a majority of them, from time· to 
time mus app0111 , an may at p easure remove, one or two stenog- 
raphers, as they deem it necessary for the business of the court, Each
stenographer so appointed is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as
prescribed by law. He must attend each term of the court, where 
issues of fact in civil or criminal causes are triable. If two stenog­
raphers are appointed, the judges or the court must assign to each his
share of the business. A stenographer may, with the assent of the
judges of the con rt, or a majority of them,' appoint an assistaut-stenog­
rapher, to aid him in the discharge of his duties, whose compensation 
ii payable by the stenographer, and is not a county charge. 
TITLE IV. 
Ths maf'lns t'JOUf't of ths city of N ,..y ork. 
8Bcnoll' 814. Marine court & court of record.•
815. Jurisdiction. 
816. The last section limited.
817. Jurisdiotion in marine ca11888.
818. No power to naturalize aliens.
819. Removal of action to supreme courtlrom marine court.
820. Justices ; their general duties. ·
821. How suspended from office.
822. Chief-justice; how designated J his general dutiee, etc.
823. .J usticee may ma.ke rules.
~ Court when open; jwstioestodesignate terms; J10Utineof b1181De11!18a& 
the terms, etc.
825. Terms, where held ; publication of appolntmeht&.
826. Justices may ta.ke oaths, aclmowledgmenta, etc.
827. Orders, ete., how made.
828. Clerk, deputy-clerk and aaeistant&.
829. General duties of deputy-clerk.
830. Special deputy-clerks.
831. Clerk to account monthly for fees, and pay over the same.
Szt.a. 8tenograpbe1'8.,
833. Interpreter. 
834. Id. J penalty for mieconducl 
835. Court may appoint attendants, etc.
836. Interpreter and attendants not to receive fees.
837. Suspension of &n officer of the court.
838. What mandates may be es:eouted·without the elty.
889. Direction and esecution of mandates. · 
§ 314. The jurisdietion of the marine court of the city of New York
extends to the following cases : · 
1. An action against a natural person, or against a foreign or domes­
tic corporation, wherein the complaint demands· judgment for a sum
of money only, or to recover one or more chattels, with or without
da.maires for the taking or detention thereof. 
2. .!n action to foreclose or enforce a lien upon real property in the 
city of New· York, created, M prescribed by statute, in favor of a per­
son, who has performed labor upon, or furnished materials to be used
in the construction, alteration, or repair of a buildin~, vault, wharf,
fence, or other structure; or who has graded, filled m, or otherwise 
improved, a lot •of land, or the sidewalk or street in front of or adjoin­
ing a lot of land. 
3. An action to foreclose or enforce a lien, for a sum not exceeding
two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest, upon one or more chattels. 
4. The ta.king and entry of a judgment, upon the confession of one
or more defendants, where the sum, for which judgment is confessed,
does not exceed two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest from the
time of making the statement, upon which the judgment is entered. 
§ 316. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section is subjec\ to 
the following limitations and regulations :
1. In an action wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum 
of money only, the sum, for which judgment is rendered in favor of
the plaintifff, cannot exceed two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest,
and costs as taxed ; except where it is brought upon a bond or under­
taking, given in an action or special proceeding in the ea.me court, or
before a justice thereof; or to recover damages for a breach of promise
of marriage; or where it is a marine cause, as that expression is defined
in the next section. Where the action is brought upon a bond or other
contract, the judgment must be for the sum actually due, without re~
to a penalty therein contained; and, where the money is payable in
instalments, successive actions may be brought for the instalments, aa
they become due. 
2. In an action to recover one or more chattels, a judgD:1ent cannot
be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, for a chattel or chattels, the
aggregate value of which exceeds two thousand dollars. 
8. The court has not jurisdiction of an action commenced &.g!Linst an 
executor or administrator, in his representative cape.city. But thus subdivision does not prevent the court from continuing an action
against an executor or administrat.or, orfrom substituting an executor
or administrator in place of a defendant in an action, in a case where U
is prescribed in this act that a continuance or substitution may be made. 
§ 317. The following actions are styled in this act, marine causes,
and the court possesses the same jurisdiction of such an action, as the
supreme court of the State : · 
1. An action in favor of a person, belonging to a vessel in the mer­
chant service, agl:l,inst the owner, master, or commander thereof, for the
reasonable value of services, or for the breach of a contract to pay for
services, rendered or to be rendered on hoard of the vessel, during a
voyage, wholly or partly performed, or intended to be performed by it. 
2. An action in favor of or against a person, belonging to or on board
of a vessel in the merchant service, to recover damages for an assault,
battery, or false imprisonment, committed on board the vessel, upon the
high seas, or in a place without the United States. 
But this section does not confer upon the marine court authority to
proceed, as a court of admiralty or maritime jurisdiction. 
§ 318. The court has not, nor has either of the justices thereof, power
to naturalize an alien. 
§ 819. The supreme court, at a term held in the first judicial district,
may, by an order made at any time after joinder of an issne of fact, 
and before the trial thereof, remove to itself an action brought in the
marine court, for the purpose of changing the place of trial thereof.
Where an order for removal is made, as prescribed in this section, the
place of trial must be changed by the same order to another county,
and the subsequent proceedings therein must be the same as if the
action had been originally brought in the supreme court. The provis­
ions of sections three hundred and forty-four, three hundred and fort.y­
five and three bundred and forty-six of this act, apply to an application
to remove such an action, and to the proceedings upon and subeequeut 
to the removal, as if the marine court was specified in those sections in
place of the county court, and a justice thereof in place of the county 
judge. 
§ 320. The court consists of six justices, one of whom is the chiefjustice of the court. Each justice must perform hie share of the labors
and duties appertaining to the office. One of the justices must attend
at the chambers of the eourt, from ten o'clock in the morning until four
o'clock in the afternoon of each day, except Sunday, a public holiday, 
·or a day upon which the inhabitants of the city of New York generally
ref'rain from business. Each justice, while in the rooms of tlie court,
and not actually engaged in the performance of other official duties,
must act upon any application for bis official action, properly made to 
him. The justice, assigned to a trial term or a special term, must
remain in attendance, until the day calendar is disposed of, or for such
other time as is reuonable. 
§ 321. Where it appears presumptively, to the satisfaction of the
Governor, that a justice of the court has been guilty of corruption, or
other gross misconduct in office; or habitually neglects to perform bis
share of the labors and duties appertaining to the office ; or is incapable
of properly discharging the same; the Governor may, in his discretion,
make an order, suspending that justice from the exercise of the duties 
oC his office, and directing that his compensation cease. Such an order
must recite the grounds upon which it is made; and it remains in force,
unless it is sooner revoked by the Governor, until the final adjournment
of the next session of the Legislature ; or, if the Legislature is then in
session, until the final adjournment of that session. 
§ 322. The justices of the court, or a majority of them, must, from
time to time, as a vacancy occurs in the office of chief-justice, desi~nate 
one of their number to be chief-justice. A certificate of the designation, under the hands of the justices making the same, must be filed
in the office of the clerk of the court. The person so designated shall
be chief-justice during his term of office. The chief-justice has the 
like authority,. within the jurisdiction of the court, as a presiding justice of the supreme court; and when he.is present and is not disqualified, he must preside at a general term. 
§ 323. The justices of the court, or a majority of them, may, from
time to time,. establish rules of practice for the court, not inconsistent
with this act, or with the general rules of practice, established as prescribed in section seventeen of this act. The latter govern the practice
in the court, as far as they are applicable thereto. 
§ 324. The court is always open for the transaction of any business,
for which notice is not required to be given to an adverse party. The 
justices or the court, or a majority of them, from time to time must
appoint, and may alter, the times of holding general, special, and trial
terms or the court. They must prescribe the duration of the terms ;
designate the trial terms a.t which jurors a.re required to attend; and
assign the justice or justices to preside and attend, at each of the terms 
appointed. In case of the inability of a justice to preside or attend,
another justice may preside or attend in his place, Each trial and
special term must be held by one justice; and each genera.I term by at
least two justices. Two or more general, special, or trial terms may be
appointed to be held at the same time. The concurrence of two justices is necessary to pronounce a decision at a general term. If two do 
not concur, a re-argument must be ordered. The justices holding a
general term may order a re-argument, before themselves, or at a sub- 
sequent general term, of a. cause heard bythem, ut at a·previous general term. 
§ 825. Each term so appointed must be held at the city-hall in the
city of New-York, except that auxiliary or additional parte.: for the
transaction of any business speeitied in the appointment, may be held
elsewhere within the city of New-York, as designated in the appointment. An appointment must be published in two newspapers, pub­
lished in the city of New- York, at least once in each week, for three
successive weeks, before a term is held in pursuanee thereof. · 
§ 826. Each of the jusflcee may, within · the city of· New-York;
administer an oath, or take a deposition, or the acknowledgment o:r
proof of the execution of a written instrnment, and certify the same, in 
like manner and with like authority and effect, as a justice of the
supreme court. 
§ 827. In an action brought in the court, an order cannot be made,
or a warrant of attachment granted, by an officer, other than a justice
of the court; and each provision of this act, which empowers an officer,
other than a judge of the court in which an action is brought, to· make
an order therein, must be construed as being exclusive of an action
brought in the marine court. · 
§ 328. The court has a clerk, who is appointed, and may be removed,
at pleasure, by the justices thereof, or a ·majority of them. He must, 
by a. written instrument nnder his hand, filed in his office, appoint.
and may a.t pleasure remove three deputy-clerks, 'and not more than
ten assistants. The clerk is responsible for the faithful discharge of
his duty, by each deputy clerk and each assistant. The clerk, each
deputy-clerk, and each assistant, is entitled to a salary, fixed and to
be paid as prescribed by law. 
§ 329. The clerk, and also each depnty-clerk, before he enters upon
the duties of his office, must subscribe, and file in the office of the clerk
of the city and county of N"ew York, the Constitutional oath of office. 
The deputy-clerk has all the powers, and may perform· all the duties
of the clerk, when the office of clerk is vacant, or at the clerk's office,
when the clerk is absent therefrom, or at a term or sitting of the court
which the deputy-clerk attends. 
§ 380. The clerk may designate as many of his assistants, M the
justices of the court, or a majority of them, deem necessary, M special
deputy-clerks. Each special deputy-clerk possesses, in the absence of
the clerk and a deputy-clerk, the same powers '8.8 the clerk, at any
sitting vr term of the court which he attends, with respect to the busi­
ness transacted thereat. 
§ 331. The clerk must receive, for the use of the city of New York,
the fees allowed by law. He shall not perform any service, for which
a. fee is allowed by law, until the fee therefore is paid to him. He
must, on the first day of each month, or within three- days thereafter,
render to the comptroller of the city an account, under oath, of all fees
received, directly or indirect.ly, during the preceding month, by him,
or by a. deputy-clerk, or either of his assistants, for any official service;
and he must, at the same time, pay the same into the t.reasury of the
city of New York. When the return and payment are so made, the
clerk is entitled to receive his compensation, for the period included
in the return. He is not entitled tocompeusatlon for a period for which
he has not made his return and payment. 
§ 832. The clerk of the court must, appoint three stenographers of
the court, and may at pleasure-remove either of them.' The justices· 
Jhe 
ua t court, or- a majority of them, must, from time to time, aeeign 
each of the stenographers to duty at the trial terms. Each etenogra- 
pher is-entitled toa.salary,. fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law.
He must attend- ea.ch term to which he is assigned. 
§ 333. The- clerk of the court, .from time.to time, must appoint and, 
may at pleasure remove, an official interpreter of the. court, who is
entitled toa salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. Before 
eateriug, upen his effici~l duties, be mus, subscribe, and file in the 
office o( the clerk of the city and county of New York, the Constitu- 
tional oath of. office. . He must attend any. trial or special term of the
court, where his se1"Vices are required; and the justices of the court, or 
a majorit.y of. them, may, by order, regulate his attendance.
§ 334. If the official· Interpreter knowingly and willfully, f1J.lsely 
inierprets any evidence, matter ~ thing, -bet.ween a witness and the
court, ora justice tJiereof, in· the.eourse of an action or special proceed- 
ing, be is guilty of perjury.
§ 335. The clerk of the court must appoint, and may at pleasure 
remove, as many attendants upon the conrt as he deems necessary, not
exceeding thirteen; the justicee of the court, or a ma.jorit.y of them,
may regulate their attendance. . Each attendant is entitled to a ealary 
fixed and to be paid as prescribed by law. 
§ 336. The clerk, the deputy-clerk, an assistant to the clerk, the 
official interpreter, or an attendant, shall not receive any fee or compensation, except his salary, for any official service performed by 
him.
§ 337. A justice of the court may, by a~ !nst~ument under ~is hand,:~~~~';:,~ 
suspend a 'stenographer, 'or an officer specified m the last secuon, for a.
period not exceeding ten da.ys from the filing. thereof. . Such an iustru- 
ment must express the cause of the suspension; it must be filed in the 
office of the clerk of the eity and county of New York; and it may be
revoked, at any time before the expiration of the period of suspension,
by an instrument filed in like manner, under the baud of the justice
who executed the first instrument, or the hands of a majority of the
justices of. she court. · Where such an., instrnment has been revoked,
the officer shall not be· a.gain suspended for the same cause. 
§ 338. A mandate of the court can be executed only within the city 
of New York, except as follows: 
1. An execution upon a judgment rendered therein, for a. sum exceed- 
ing twenty-five dollars, may be issued out of the· court, tested in the 
name· of- the- iehief-jostice ·thereof, to the sheriff of any county, wherein
the judgment bas been duly docketed. 
2. A snbpeena may be served within either of the counties of Rich­
mond, Kings, Queens, or Westchester. 
3 e ' A warrantto apprehend a witness 'for a failure. to obey a subpoena,
may be executed by the sheriff of the city and county of New York,
or a marshal of that city, within either of those counties. 
4. An order dul!f made, .in an action pending in the court, requiring 
the performance of. an act. by a party thereto, or by an officer, may be 
aer.ved upon. a person .bound to obey the order, and his obedience thereto
may be required in any part of the State. 
Ci. An- order to show .cause, why a person should not be punished for
a oontempt of the court, may be served by any person in any part of 
1.he State.
6. A warrant to apprehend, and bring before the court, a person 
charged with such a contempt, may be executed by the sheriff of the 
I 
city and county of New York: ~r a marshal of that city, in any part
of the State. . 
§ 889. In an action brought in the court, an order of arrest, a we.rra.nt
of attachment, an execution, or a requisition to replevy a chattel, must
be directed to and executed by the sheriff'. Any other mandate, which 
must have been directed to and executed by the sheriff' of the city and
county of New York, if it issued out of the supreme court, may, where
it issues out of the marine court, be directed to and executed either by 
that sheriff', or a marshal of that city, named therein. A marshal is
entitled to the same fees as the sheriff, upon a mandate directed to
him, or upon the service of a summons; and each provision of law,
relating to the execution of a mandate by the sheriff, and the power
and control of the court over the sheriff executing the same, applies to 
the marshal. The retum of a marshal to such a mandate, or bis certi­
ficate of the execution thereof, or of the service of any paper served by
him, has the same force and effect as the like return and certificate of 
a sheriff. 
TITLE V. 
8IICl'l'IOlf 840. Jurisdiction.
841. Domestic corporation, etc., when deemed remdent, etc. 
849. Action, etc., wherein county judge is incapable to act.
843. Supreme court nia,y remove action, and change place of trial. 
844. Effect of order of removal ; appeal, etc.
845. Stay ofJroceedings. 
846. Remov of action not to impair prooees, etc. 
847. County court may send its proeeee to &ny county.
848. When jurisdiction, etc., co-extensive with supreme court. 
849. Power of county judge in special proceedings.
850. Fines and penalties ; bow remitted. . 
861. Restrictions upon power to remit.
85j, Notice of application, et.e.; costs to be paid on remission. 
863. FineB imposed by justices of the peace; how remitt.ed.
SM. Who may make orders. 
865. County court when open ; terms thereof.
866. Notice of appointment to be published.
557. Jurors, how drawn and summoned.
858. Stenographers for county courts. 
859. Stenographer for county court.a and surrogate's court in Kings county.
860. Id.; assistant-stenographer. 
861. Stenographer for county courts of Monroe and Livingston countiet1. 
§ 340. The jurisdiction of each county court extends to the following
actions and special proceedings, hL~dgiti~.n to, th~ jurisdiction, power, 
and authority, conferred upon a county court, in a particular ease, by
special statutory provision : 
t. To an action for the partition of real property ; fOT dower ; for
the foreclosure, redemption, or satisfaction of a mortgage upon real
property; or to procure a judgment requiring the specific performance
of a contract, relating to real property; where the real property, to
which the action relates, is situated within the county; or to foreclose
a lien upon a chattel, in a case specified in section seventeen hundred 
and th, i. rt.y-seven of this act, where the lien does not exceed one 
twl~.c\Dllar.s in amount, and the chattel is found within the county.
2. To an action in favor of the executor, administrator or assignee 
of a judgment creditor, or, in a proper case, in favor of the judgment
creditor, to recover a judgment for money remaining due upon a judgment rendered in the same court. 
8. To an action for any other cause, where. the defendant is, or, if
\here are two or more defendants, where all of them are, at the time 
of the commencement of the action, residents of the county, and
wherein the complaint demands judgment for a sum of money only,
not exceeding one tbo•1&&:tJd dollaes ; or to recover one or more chattels,
the aggregate value of which does not exceed one thousand dollars,
with or without damages for the taking or detention thereof. 
4. To the cust.ody of the person and the care of the property, con­
currently with the supreme court, of a resident of the county, who is
incompetent to manage his affairs, by reason of lunacy, idiocy, or
habitual drunkenness; and to every special proceeding, which the
supreme court has jurisdiction to entertain, for the appointment of a
committee of the person or of the property, of such an incompetent
person, or for the sale or other disposition of the real property, situated
within the county, of a person, wherever resident, who is so incompe­
tent for either of the causes aforesaid, or who is an infant; or for the
aale or other disposition of the real property, situated within the
county, of a domestic religious corporation. 
§ 341. For the purpose of determinintf the jnri8diction of a county
court, in either of the cases specified m the 188t section, a domestic 
corporation or joint-stock association, whose principal place of business 
is established, by or pursuant to a statute, or by its articles of 8880Cio.tion, or is actually located within the county, is deemed a resident of 
the county, and personal service of a summons, made within the county,
as prescribed in this act, or personal service of a mandate, whereby a 
special proceeding ie commenced, made within the county, 88 prescribed
in this act f or personal service of a summons, is sufficient service
thereof opon a domestic corporation, wherever it is located. 
§ 842. If the county judge is, for any cause, incapable to act in an
action or special proceeding, pending in the county court, or before
him, he must make, and file in the office of the clerk, a certificate of 
the fact; and thereupon the special county judge, if any, and if not
disqualified, must act 88 county judge in that action or special pro- 
ceeding. Upon the filing of the certificate, where there is no special
county judge, or the special county judge is disqualified, the action or
special proceeding is removed to the supreme court, if it is then pending in the county conrt; if it is pending before the county judge, it
may be continued before any justice of the supreme court within the
same judicial district. The supreme court, npon 'the application of
either party, made upon notice, and upon proof that t.he county judge 
is incapable to act in an action or special proceeding pending in the
county court, may, and if the special county judge is also incapable 
to act, must make an order removing it to the supreme conrt. Thereupon the subsequent proceedings in the supreme court must be the
same ae if it bad originally been brought in that court, except that an
objection to the jurisdiction may be taken, which might have been taken 
in the conn ty court. 
§ 343. The supreme court may, by an order, made at any time after 
JOmder of an 188Ue o act, an tore e ria ereo , remove 
itself an action, brought in a coun~ court, under subdivision second
or subdivision third of the last section but two, for the purpose of
changing the place of trial thereof. Where an ord~r for removal. ie 
made aR prescribed in this section, the place of tnal of the action 
must be changed by the Bame order to another oounty; and the sub- 
sequent proceedings therein must be -the 88.JD.e, as if the action bad
been originaliy brought in the supreme court. 
§ 344. An order of removal, made as prescribed in either of the last
two sections, takes effect upon the entry thereof in the office of the 
county clerk. Where the order directs that the action be tried in another county, the clerk with whom it is entered, must forthwith deliver 
to the clerk· of that county, all papers filed therein, and certified copies
of all minutes and entries relating thereto; which must be filed, en­
tered, or recorded, as the case requires, in the office of the last men­
tioned clerk. The provisions of section two hundred and seventy-one
of this act apply to an appeal taken from such an order. 
§ 845. An order to stay proceedings, for the purpose of affording an
opportunity to make the application for removal, may be made by the
county judge, or by a judge authorized to make such an order in the
supreme court, and with like effect and under like circumstances. 
§ 346. The removal of an action or special proceeding, as prescribed
in this title, ees not invali ate, or in any manner impair, a process,
provisional remedy, or other proceeding, or a bond, undertaking, or 
recognize.nee in the action or special proceeding so removed ; each· of
whion continues to have the same validity and effect, as if the removal
bad not been made. Where bail was given, the surrender of the
defendant in the supreme court has the same efftd, as a surrender in
the county court would have had, if the action or special proceeding
had remained therein. 
§ 347. A county court bas power, in an action or- special proceeding
of which it has jurisdiction, to send its process and other mandates into 
8.D.J..co.uJlcy' .of the State, for service or execution, and to enforce obe­
dience thereto, with iike power and authority as the supreme court. 
§ 848. Where a county court has jurisdiction of an action or a special
proceeding, it possesses the same jurisdiction, power and authority in
and over the same, and in the course of the proceedings therein, which
the supreme court possessee in a like case; and it may render any judg­
ment, or grant either party any relief, which the supreme court mi~ht
render or grant in a like case, and may enforce its mandates in like
manner as the supreme court. And the county judge possesses the
same power and authority, in the action or special proceeding, which a
justice of the supreme court possesses, in a like action or special pro­
ceeding, brought in the supreme court. 
§ 349. The county judge also possesses the same power and authority,
in a special proceeding, which can be lawfully instituted before him,
out of court, which a justice of the supreme court possesses in a like
special proceeding", instituted before him in like manner. 
§ 350. Upon the application of a person, who has been fined by a
court, or of a person whose recognizance has become forfeited, or of his
surety, the county court of the county in which the term of the court
was held, where the fine was imposed, or the recognizance taken,
may, except as otherwise prescribed in the next section, upon good
cause shown, and upon such terms as it deems just, make an order,
remitting the fine, wholly or partly, or the forfeiture of the recognizance,
or part of the penalty thereof; or it may discharge the recognizance.
U a fine so remitted has been paid, the county treasurer, or other officer,
in whoee hands the money remains, must pay the same, or the pa.rt
remitted, according to the order. 
§ 351. The last section does not authorize a county court, to remit
any part of a. fine, exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, imposed 
1 a co o oyer an termmer, or a cou o seasons, upon a convicijon for a criminal offense; or a fine, to any amount, imposed by a court 
npon an officer or other person, for an actual contempt of court, or for
disobedience to its process, or other mandate; or to remit or discharge
a recognizance, taken in its county, for the appearance of a person in
another county. In the latter case, the power of remitting or discharging the recognizance is vested in the county court of the county, in
which the person is bound' to appear. 
§ 352. An application for an order, as prescribed in the last section
but one, cannot be heard, until such notice thereof as the conrt deems 
reasonable, bas been given to the district-attorney of the county, and
unt-il be has bad an opportunity to examine the matter, and prepare to
resist the application. And upon granting such an order, the court
must always impose, as a condiction* thereof, the payment of the costs 
and expenses, if any, incurred in an action or special proceeding for 
the collection of the fine, or the penalty of the recognizance. 
§ 853. Where a person has been fined by a court of special sessions,IFinee
or by a justice of the peace, upon a conviction for an offense, and baf/f;s~T~~f 
been committed to jail for non-payment of the fine, the county conrf.~
of the county may make an order, remitting the fine, wholly or partly, 
and discharging him from his imprisonment. The power conferred by.'
this section must be exercised in the manner prescribed, and subject t<1,
the provisions contained, in the last tbree sections.
§ 854. In an action or special proceeding in a county court, an order 
may be made without notice, or an order to stay proceedings may 
be made upon notice, by a justice of the supreme court, OT by the
county judge of the county where the attorney for the applicant resides., 
in a. case where the county judge, in whose court the action or special·
proceeding is brought, may make the same, out of court; and with
like effect. 
§ 355. The county court is always open for the transaction of any
business, for which notice is not required to be given to an adverse 
party, except where it is specially prescribed by law, that the business
must be done at a stated· term. The county judge must, from time to 
time, appoint the times and places for holding terms of his court. At
least two terms, for· the trial of issues of law or of fact, must be appointed to be held in each year. Each term may confine as long as the 
county judge deems necessary. The county judge may, by a new
appointment, change the day appointed for holding a term, or appoint
one or more additional terms, or dispense with the holding of a term,
without affecting any other- term or terms theretofore appointed to be
held. Each term must be held at the place designated by statute for
that purpose; except that the county judge may, fmm time to time,
adjourn a term to any place within the county, for the hearing and
decision of motions and appeals, and trials and other proceedings
without a jury; and may appoint as many terms as he thinks proper
to be held, either at the court house or elsewhere in the county, for the 
same purpose.
§ 356. Each appointment, made as prescribed in the last section( 
must he filed in the county clerk's office, and a. copy thereof published;
at least once in each week, for three successive weeks before a t.erm is 
held, 'changed, Ol' dispensed with, by virtue thereof, in the newspaper 
in the city of Albany, in which legal notices are required to be pub- 
,lished, and also m at least one newspaper, published in the county, and
as many additional newspapers, published therein, as the county judge 
~prescribes. The expense of the publication is a. county charge.
§ 857. J nrors for the terms of the county court, at which issues of 
fact are triable by jury, and of the court of sessions, must be drawn
and notified in the same manner as for a term of the circuit court. 
§ 858. The board of supervisors of any county, except Kings, Livf te 
ingstou, and Monroe, may provide for the employment o a s nographer for the county court and court of sessions thereof, and must fix 
his compensation, and provide for the payment thereof, in the same
manner as other county expenses are paid. 
§ 359. The connty judge of the county of Kings, from time to time
must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, a stenographer, to be at­
tached to the county court, and the court of sessions, of the county of
Kings, who is entitled to a salary, fixed and to be paid as prescribed by
law. He must attend each trial of an issue of fact in the county court or 
court of sessions. The stenographer appointed as prescribed in this section, may, with the consent of the county judge, appoint an assist­
ant stenographer to aid him in the discharge of hit' duties, whose com­
pensation shall be paid by the stenographer, and is not a county charge. 
§ 360. The county judge and the surrogate of the county of Kings,
from time to time, must appoint, and may at pleasure remove, an in­ 
terpreter, to be attached to the county court, the court of sessions, and
the surrogate's court of the county of Kings. Before entering upon the
discharge of his duties, he must file in the county clerk's office the con­ 
stitutional oath of office, and an additional oath, which may be incor­
porated into the constitutional oath, to the effect that he will fully and
correctly interpret and translate each question propounded to a witne88
and each answer thereto. 
§ 861. The judge holding or rresiding at a term of the county court
or court of sessions, in either o the counties of Livingston, Niagara or 
Monroe, where issues of fact are triable, may employ a stenographer 
to take stenographic notes upon trials thereat, who is entitled to a com­
pensatio~, to be certified by the judge, not exceeding ten dollars for 
each days attendance, at the request of the judge. The stenographer's
compensation is a charge upon the county, and, in the counties of Liv­
ingston and Niagara must be audited, allowed and paid e.s other county
charges ; and in the county of Monroe must be paid by the county
treasurer on an order of the court, granted on the affidavit of the
stenographer and the certificate of the judge, that the services were 
rendered. 
TITLE I.-ACTION8 POR TUB RECOVBRY OP RBAL PROPERTY. 
TITLE 11.-ACTIONS OTHER THAN POR THB RECOVERY OP BBA.L 
PROPERTY. 
CHAPTER IV. 
LIMITATION OF THE TIME OF ENFORCING A orvn, 
TITLE III.-GBNBBAL PBOVI8ION8. 
REMEDY. 
TITLE I. 
Actions /or tM r6C<1'tJ6f11 o/ nal Pf'OP(lrlg. 
BIIO'l-lo• 882. 'When ·the people will not sue.
863. Action by grantee from the State.
864. Action after anulling Ietters patent.
366, 866. Seizin within twenty yea.rs, when neceseary, et.a.
867. Action after entry.
868. Possemrion, when presumed; occupation presumed t.o be under legal 
title.
869. Adverse poeeeseion under written instrument or judgment. 
8'70. Id. ; what constitutes it.
871. Adverse poseeseion under claim of title not written.
872. Id. ; what constitutes it.
873. Relation of landlord and tenant, as &ff'ecting adverse poeeesaion.
874. Right not affected by descent east.
875. Certain disabilities excluded from time to commence action. 
§ 962. The people of the State will not sue a person for or with re- 
spect to real property, or the issues or profits thereof, by reason of the
right or title of the people to the same, unless either: 
1. The cause of action accrued within forty years before the action
is commenced; or, 
2. The people, or those from whom they claim, have received the
rents and profits of the real property, or of some part thereof, within
the same period of time. 
§ 868. An action shall not be brought for or with respect to real
property' by a person elaiming by virtue of letters patent or a ~nt, 
from the people of the State, unless it might have been maintained by
the people, as prescribed in this title, if the patent or grant had not been
iseued or made. 
§ 964. Where letters patent or a 8'!'&nt of real property, issued or
made by the people of the State, are declared void by the determina- 
tion of a competent court, rendered upon an allegation of a fraudulent
suggestion or concealment, or of a forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance
ol & material fact, or wrongful detaining, or defective title; an action 
of ejectment, to recover the premises in question, may be commenced,
either by the people, or by e. subsequent patentee or grantee of the
same premises, his heirs, or assigus, within twenty years after the
determination is made ; but not after that period. 
§ 865. An action to recover real property, or the possession thereof,
cannot be maintained by a party, other than the people, unless the
plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor, was seized or possessed
of the premises in question, within twenty years before the commence­
ment of the action. 
§ 366. A defense or counterclaim, founded upon the title to real
property, or to rents or services out of the same, is not effectual, unless
the person making it, or under whose title it is made, or bis ancestor,
predecessor, or grantor, was seized or possessed of the premises in
question, within twenty years before the committing of the act, with 
respect to which it is made. ··
§ 867, An entry upon real prop~,ty is not sufficie~t or vaqd as & 
an.e~F1..:.claim, ulesa an action is commenced thereupon, within one year after
the ma16ng thereof, aud within twenty years after the time, when tl\e 
right to make it descended or accrued. · ·
§ 368. In an action to recover real property, or the possession thereof. 
thb person who establishes a legal title to the premises is presumed to
have been possessed thereof, within the time required by law; and 
the occupation of the premises, by another rerson, is deemed to have
been under and in subordination to the lega title, unless the premises 
have been held and possessed adversely to the legal title, fctf twent_r
years before the commencement of the action. 
§ 369. Where the occupant, or those under whom he claims, entered
into the possession of the premises, under claim of title, exclusive of 
any other right, founding the claim upon a written instrument, as
being a conveyance of the premises i11 question, or upon the decree or
judgment of a competent court; and there has been a continued occu­
pation and possession of the premises, included in the instrument,
decree, or judgment, or of some part thereof, for twenty years, under
the same claim; the premises sq included are deemed to have been held
adversely: except that where they consist of a tract, divided into lots,
the possession of one lot is n.ot deemed a. possession of any other lot. 
§ 370. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, bye. 
person claiming a ti~le, founded upon a written instrument, or a jud~­ 
ment or decree, land irt deemed to have been possessed and occupied in 
either of the f ollowing cases : 
1. Wlie~ it ha,, been usually cultivated or improved. 
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial Inclosure, 
3~ Wliere, although not inclosed, it bas been used for the supply of
fuel, Of of fen,ci.ng timber, either for the purposes of husbandry, or for
the ordinary use of the occupant. 
Where a. known farm or a single lot bas been partly improved, the 
portion of the farm or lot that has been left not cleared, or not inclosed, 
according to the usual course and custom of the adjoining country, is
deemed to bavQ been occupied for tlie same length of time, as the part 
improved and cultivated.
§ 371. Waere there has been aJ} actual continued occupation of 
premises, under a cl9JIJl of title, exclusive of any other right, but not
founded upon a written Instrument, or a judgment or decree, the prem­
ilses so actually occupied, and no others, are deemed tQ have been held 
adverrsely, 
§ 372. For the pu~ of constituting an adverse possession, by a 
person claiming title, not founded upon a written instrument, or a
judgment or decree, land is deemed to have been possessed and occu- 
pied in either of the following cases, and no others: 
1. Where it has been protected by a substantial Inclosure,
2. Where it has been usually cultivated dr improved. 
§ 373. Where the relation of landlord and tenant has existed between 
any persons, the. posse$8ioh df the tenant ls deemed the possession
of the landlord, until the expiration of twenty years after the ter- 
mination of the tenancy; or, where there has been ho written lease,
until the expiration of twenty years after the lBBt payment of rent; 
uotwjtbetavdiog that the tenant has acquired another title, or has 
claimed to hold adversely to his landlord. But this presumption shall
not be made, after the periods prescribed in this section. 
§ 874. The right of a person to the possession ofreal property is not 
impaired or affected, by a descent being cast, in consequence of the
death of a person in possession of the property. 
§ 375. If a person, who might maintain an action to recover real
property, or the possession thereof, or tnake an entry, or interpose a
defense or counterclaim, founded on the title to real property, dr to
rents or services out of the same, is, when bis title first descends, or 
his cause of action or right of entry first accrues, either: 
I. Within the age of twenty-one 'years; or, 
2. Insane; or, 
8. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction 
or a criminal offense, for a. term lees than for life ; 
The time of such a disability is not a part · of the tiine, limited in
this title, for commencing the action, or making the ent.ry, or inter­ 
posing the defense br counterclaim; except that the time so limited can­ 
not be extended more t.hg.p teP .~ter the disability ceaees, or 
after the death of the person so disabled.
TITLE  
ltlcmo• 3'76. When llatiRfaction of judgment presumed.
377. Effect of return of execution. 
378. How presumption raised. . . .
379. Limitation of action to redeem from a mortpce. 
380. Oth~r periods of limitation.
~1. Within twenty years. 
382. Within six yea.rs. 
183. Within three yean. 
884. Wi.thin two yea.rs. 
TITLE II. 
Actioiu otMr than /or lluJ ~ tJ/ ,tfal prtJp,r#r. 
885. Within one year. .
886. When cause of action &CC1"lleB on a eUl'J'ent aceotmt.
887. Action for penalty, etc., by any pel'BOD who will sue.
88&. A.c.tione not before provided for.
389. Actions by the people subject to the •me llmit&tiOll8. . . . . . .
890. Action *gainst a non-resid"ent, upon a demand barred b7 the Jaw ot 
bis residence. . 
flt. When ·i,ereon U.'ble, eic., di• 'trithbut the $tate. 
892. Cause of action accruing between the death of & testator or intestate, 
and the grant of letters.
893. No limitation of action on bank notes, etc.
894. Action against directors, etc., of banks.
895. Acknowledgment or new promise must be in writing. 
896. Exceptions, as to persons under dis&bilitiea.
897. Defence or countercla.im. 
§ 876. A final judgment or decree for a sum of mon~y, or directing
the payment of a sum of money, heretofore rendered 111 a surrogate's
court of the State, or heretofore or hereafter rendered, in a court of rec- 
ord within the United States, or elsewhere, is presumed to be paid and
satisfied, t!'.t.~r..thi e~pJra~ion of.._twenty years from the time, when the 
party recovering 1t was first entitled to a mandate to enforce it. This
presumption is conclusive; except as against a pel'8on, who, within
twenty years from that time, makes a payment or acknowledges au
indebtedness of some part of the amount recovered by the judgment or
decree; or his heir or personal representative; or a person whom he
otherwise represents. Such an acknowledgment must be in writing,
and signed by the person to be charged thereby. 
§ 377. If the proof of payment, under the last section, consists of
the return of an execution partly satisfied, the ad verse party may 
-show, in full avoidance of the effect thereof, that the alleged partial
satisfaction did not proceed from a payment made, or a sale of prop­ 
erty claimed, by him, or by a person whom he represents.
§ 378. A person may avail himself of the presumption created by 
the last section but one, under an allegation that the action was not
commenced, or that the proceeding was not taken, within the time 
therein limited.
§ 879. An action to redeem real property from a mortgage, with or 
without an account of rents and profits, may be maintained by the
mortgagor, or those claiming under him, against the mortgagee in 
possession, or those claiming under him, unless he or they have con­
tinuously maintained an adverse possession of the mortgaged premises,
for twenty years after the breach of a condition of the mortgage, or
the non-fulfilment of a covenant therein contained. 
§ 880. The following actions must be commenced within the follow­
ing periods, after the cause of action has accrued. 
381. .Withjn .t\Ven.ty years :
An action upon a sealed instrument. 
But where the action is brought for breach of a covenant of seizin,
or against encumbrances, the cause of action is for the purposes of this section only, deemed to have accrued upon au eviction, and not before. 
§ 382. Within sixyears :
1. An action upon a contract, obligation or liability, express or im- 
plied; except a judgment or sealed instrument.
2....An action t.o zeeorer lJPOn. .a liability create.d.lzy' statute ; except a 
penalty or forfeiture. .
3. An action to recover damages for an injury to property, or a per­ 
sonal injury ; except in a case where a different period is expressly
prescribed in this chapter. 
4. An action to recover a chattel. 
o. An action to procure a judgment, other than for a sum of money,
on the ground of fraud, in a case which, on the thirty-first day of De­
cember, eighteen hundred and forty-six, was cognizable by the court
of chancery. The cause of action, in such a case, is not deemed to 
have accrued, until the discovery, by the plaintifff, or the person under
whom be claims, of the facts constituting the fraud. . 
6. An action to establish a. will. Where the will has been lost, con ..
cealed, or destroyed, the cause of action is not deemed to have accrued,
nutil the discovery, by the plaintifff, or the person under whom he
claims, of the facts upon which its validity depends. 
7. An action upon a judgment or decree, rendered in a court not of.
record, except a decree heretofore rendered in a surrogate's court of the
State. The cause of action, in such a case, is deemed to have accrued,
when final judgment was rendered. 
§ 883. Within three years: 
1. An action' aga1nst· a sheriff, coroner, constable, or other officer, for
the non-payment of money collected upon an execution. 
2. An action against a <WMtP.ble, upon any other liability incurred
by him, by doing an act in his official capacity, or by the omission of
an official duty ; except an escape. 
8. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where the
action is given to the person aggrieved, or to that person and the peo­
ple of the State; except where the statute imposing it prescribes a
different limitation. 
4. An action against an executor, administrator, or receiver, or
againet the trustee of an insolvent debtor, appointed, as prescribed by
law, in a special proceeding instituted in a court or before a judge,
brought to recover a chattel, or damages for taking, detaining, or
injuring personal property, by the defendant, or the person whom he
represents. 
5. An action to recover damages for a personal injury, resulting from
negligence. 
§ 384, Wit'f.!ip, nv~. ye~a~:
1. An action to recover damages for libel, slander, assault, battery, 
or false imprisonment.
2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the people 
of the State. 
§ 385. Within one year :
1. An action against a sheriff or coroner, upon a liability incurred by 
him, by doing an act in his official capacity, or by the omission of an
official duty ; except the non-payment of money collected upon an
execution. 
2. An action against any other officer, for the escape of a prisoner,
arrested or imprisoned by virtue of a civil mandate. 
§ 386. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual,
. d d 
open, and current account, where there have been reciprocal eman s
between the parties, the eause of action is deemed to have accrued 
from the time of the last itein, proved in the account on either side. 
§ 387. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, given
wholly or partly to any person who will prosecute for the same, must 
be commenced within one year after the commission of the offense ;
and if the action is not commenced within the year by a private per- 
son, it may be commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf of
the people of the State, by the Attorney-General, or the district-attorney of the county where the offense was committed. 
§ 388. An action, the limitation of which is not specially prescribed
in this or the last title, must be commenced within ten years after the
cause of action accrues. 
§ 389. The limitations, prescribed in this title, apply alike to actions
brought in the name of the people of the State, or for their benefit, and 
to actions by private persons. 
§ 890. Where a cause of action, which does not -involve the title to 
or possession of real property within. the State, accrues against a per­
son, who is not .theu a resident of the State, an action cannot be brought 
thereon in a court of the State, against him or his personal represeuta­
tive, after the expiration of the time, limited., by the laws of his resi­ 
denee, for .bringing a. like action, except by a resident of the St.ate, 
and in one of the following cases : 
1. Where the ~use of action originally accnied in favo'r of a resi­
dent of the State. 
2. Where, before the expiration of the time so limited, the person,
in whose favor it originally accrued, was or . became a resident of Ute
State ; or the cause -of action was assigned to, and thereafter continu­
ously owned by, a resiclent of the State. 
§ 891. If a person, against whom a cause of action exists, dies with­
out the State, the time which elapees between his death, and the expira­
tion of eighteen months after the issuing, within the State, of letters 
~ta.m.entary or letters of administ.ra.tion, is not a part of the \ime
limited for the eommencemeat or an action therefore, against his execu­
tor or administrator. 
§ 802. For the purpose of com.puting the time, within which an
actien must be commenced in a court of the State, by an executor or 
administrator, to recover personal property, taken after the death of a 
testator or intestate, and before the iss.ui~ of letters testamentary or
letters of administration ; or to recover damages for taking, detaining 
or injuring personal property within the same period ; the letters are
deemed to have been issued within six years after the death of the tes­
tator or intestate. But where an action is barred by this section, any
of the next of kin, legatees, or creditors, who, at the time of the trans­ 
action upon which it might have been founded, was within the age of 
twenty-one years, or insane, or imprisoned on a criminal charge, may~
within five years after the cessation of 11uc1l a disability, maintain an
action to recover damages by reason thereof: in which he may recovee 
such sum, or the value of such property, as he would have received
upon the fi.naJ distribution of the estate, if an actlon had been seeson­ 
§ 394. This chapter does not affect an action against a director or
stockholder of a moneyed corporation, or banking a.seociation, to recover 
ably commenced by the executor or administrator. 
§ 398. Thia chapter does not affect an action to enforce the payment
of a bill, note, or other evidence of debt, issued by a moneyed corpora- 
tion, or issueti or put in circulation as meney. 
a penalty or forfeiture Imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law;
bnt such an aciloa must oe broll&'ht within three years after the cause
of action baa accrued. 
§ 395. An acknowledgment or promise, contained in a writing signecl 
by the party to be charged thereby, is the only competent evidence ()f
a new or continuing contract, whereby to take a ease out of the opera- 
tion of this title. 'But this section does not alter the effect of a. pay- 
ment of principal or interest. 
§ 396. If a person, entitled to maintain an action specified in thls title, except for a periaJty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other
officer for an escape, is, at the time when the cause of action accraee, 
either:
1. Within the age ot twenty-one years; or, 
2. Insane ; or. 
n 
8. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, o'I' in e~ecution upon conviction 
or a criminal offense, for a term less than for life;
The time of such a disability is not a. patt of the time, limited ii 
tliis title for commencing the action ; except that the titne so litnite
cannot be extended more than five years by any such disability, excep 
iafancy ; or, in any case, more than one ~a.r.a!t.~r the disability ceases.
§ 897. A ca~1s~ o! ac~ion, iijx>ii"wnich an action. cannot be maintained, 
as prescribed m thIS title, cannot be effectually interposed as a defense
or counterclaim. 
TITLE III.
General, pro,,isiom. 
8llorlo:w 898. When action deemed to be commenced.
899. Attempt 'to commence action in a court of record.
400. ld. ; in a court. not of record.
401. Exception, when defendant is without the 8tate. 
j()'J, Id. ; when a person, entitled, etc., dieti before limitation expire&
408. Id. ; when a person liable, etc., diee within the State.
404. In suits by aliens, time of rusabflity in case of war to be deducted.
405. Provision wbel-e judgment 'has been reversed.
406. Stay by injunction, etc., to be deducted.
407. Certain actions by a. principal, for miecondact <4 Ml agent, 'etc.
408. DiMbility must exiElt when ~ht accmee.
409. If several disabilities, no limitation until all removed,
410. Provision when the action cannot be maintained without a demand.
411. Provision in ·case of submission to a;rbitration.
412. Provision when action ie diecontinued1 etc., after answer. 
413. How objection taken, under this chapter.
4-14. Caeee te which this eh~ •'wli~. 
415. Mode of computing penods of limitation. 
§ 898. An action is commenced. against a delenaant, within the
ineaning of any provision ot this act, which limits the time for commencmg an action, when the -summons is served on Lim ; or, on a 
oo-defendant who is a joiBt contractor, or otherwise united in intereut 
with him.
§ 399. An attempt to commence an action, in a court of record, is 
equivalent to the commencement thereof against each defendant,
'Within the meaning of each provision of tbiB act, which limits the time
for commencing an action, when the summons is delivered, with the 
intent that it shall be actually served, to the sheriff', or, where the
sheriff is a party, to a coroner of the county, in which that defendant 
or one of two or more co-defendants, who are joint contractors, or otherwise united in interest with him, resides or la&t resided; or, if the
defendant is a corporation, to a like officer of the county, in which it is 
established by law, or wherein its general businesa is or was last transacted, or wherein it keeps or last kept, an office for the transaction of
business. But in order to entitle a plaintifff to the benefit of this section, the delivery of the summons to an officer must be followed, within 
6i.xty days after the expiration of the time limited for the actual com­
mencement of the action, by personal service thereof upon the defend- 
ant sought to be charged, or by the first publication of the summons, 
as against that defendant, pursuant to an order for service upon him
in that manner. 
§ 400. The last section, excluding the provision requiring a publication or service of the summons within sixty days, applies to an attempt 
to commence an action in a. court not of record. where the summons is
delivered to an officer authorized to serve the same, within the city or 
t.own wherein the person resides or the corporation is located, as speci­
fied in that section; provided that actual service thereof is made with 
due diligence.
§ 401. If, when the cause of action accrues against a person, he is 
without the State, the action may be commenced within the time lim­
ited therefore, after his return into the State. If, after a cause of action 
bas accrued against a person, he departs from and resides without the
State, or remains continuously absent therefrom for the space of one
year or more, the time of bis absence is not a part of thE, time, limited
for the commencement of the action. But this section does not apply
while a designation made as prescribed in section four hundred and
thirty, or in subdivision second of section four hundred and thirty.two
of this act remains in force. 
§ 402. If a person, entitled to maintain an action, dies before the ex­
piration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause 
of action survives, an action may be commenced by his representative,
aftAr the expiration of that time, aud within one year after his death. 
§ 408. The term of eighteen months after the death, within the
State, of a person, against whom a cause of action exists, is not a part 
of the time limited for the commencement of an action against bis
executor or administrator. If letters testamentary or letters of admin­
istration upon bis estate are not issued, within the State, at least six
months before the expiration of the time to bring the action, as extended
by the foregoing provision of this section, the term of one year after
such letters are issued, is not & part of the time limited for the com­
mencement of such an action. 
§ 404. Where a. person is disabled to sue in the courts of the State,
by reason of either party being an alien subject or citizen of a country
at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of the disa­
bility is not a part of the time limited for the commencement of the 
action. 
§ 405. If an action is commenced within the time limited therefore,
and a. judgment therein is reversed on appeal, without awarding a new 
trial, or the action is terminated in any other manner than by a voluntary discontinuance, a dismissal of the complaint for neglect to pros­ 
ecute the action, or a final judgment upon the merits; the plaintifff, or,
if he dies, and the cause of action survives, his representative may 
commence a new action for the same cause, after the expiration of the
time so limited, and within one year after such a reversal or termination. 
§ 406. Where the commencement of an action bas been stayed by
injunction, or by other order of a court or judge, or by statutory prohibi­ 
tion, the time of the continuance of the stay is not a part of the time,
limited for the commencement of the action. 
§ 407. Where an injury results from the act or omission of a deputy
or agent, the time, within which an action to recover damages by reason 
thereof, must be commenced by the principal, against the deputy or
agent, must be computed from the time, when a judgment against the 
principal, for the act or omission, is first recovered by the aggrieved
person; and & subsequent reversal or setting aside of the judgment 
does not extend the time. 
74 
§ 408. A person cannot avail himself of a disability unlesa it existed
when bis right of action or of entry accrued. 
§ 409. Where two or more disabilities co-exist, when the right of
action or of entry accrues, the limitation does not attach, until all are 
removed. 
§ 410. Where a right exists, but a. demand is necessary to entitle a
person to maintain an action, the time, within which the action must 
be commenced, must be computed from the time, when the right to
make the demand is complete; except in one of the following cases : 
t. Where the right grows out of the receipt or detention of money
or property, by an agent, trustee, attorney, or other person acting in 8, 
fiduciary capacity, the time must be computed from the time, when the
person, having the right to make the demand, has actual knowledge of.
the facts, upon which that right depends. 
2. Where there was a deposit of money, not to be repaid at a fixed
time, but only upon a special demand, or a delivery of personal prop­
erty, not to be returned, specifically or in kind, at a fixed time or upon
a fixed contingency, the time must be computed from the demand. 
§ 411. Where the persons, who might be adverse parties in an action,
have entered into a written agreement to submit to arbitration, or to 
refer the cause of action, or a controversy in which it might be available, or have entered into a written submission thereof to arbitrators;
and before an award, or other determination thereupon, the agreemeut
or submission is revoked, so as to render it ineffectual, by the death of
either party thereto, or by the a.ct of the person against whom· the
action might have been brought; or the execution thereof, or ihe
remedy upon an award or other determination thereunder, is stayed by
injunction, or other order procured by him from a competent court or
judge ; the time which bas elapsed, between the entering into the
written submission or agreement, and the revocation thereof, or the expiration of the stay, is not a part of the time, limited for the com­
mencement of the action. 
§ 412. Where a defendant in an action has interposed an answer, in
support of which he would be entitled to rely, at the trial, upon a de- 
fence or counterclaim then existing in his favor, the remedy upon which,
at the time of the commencement of the action, was not barred by the 
provisions of this chapter; and the complaint is dismissed, or the action
is discontinued, or abates in consequence of the plaintifff's death; the
time which intervened, between the commencement and the termination of the action, is not a. part of the time, limited for the commencement of an action by the defendant, to recover for the cause of action
so interposed as a defense, or to interpose the same defense in another
action brought by the same plaintifff, or a. person deriving title from or 
under him.
§ 413. The objection, that the action was not commenced within tlHow 
time limited, can be taken only by answer. The corresponding obje
tion to a defense or counterclaim can be taken only by reply ; exce 
where a reply is not required, in order to enable the plaintifff to rais 
an issue of fact, upon an allej,f&tion contained in the answer.
§ 414. The provisions of this chapter apply, and constitute the only 
rules of limitation applicable, to a civil action or special proceeding,
except in one of the following cases: 
1. A case, where a different limitation is specially prescribed by law,
or a shorter limitation is prescribed by the written contract of the 
2. A eal18e ot action or a defense which accrued before the first day
of July, eighteen hundred and forty-eight. The statutes then in force 
govern, with respect to such a cause of action or delence.
S. A-case, not included in the last subdivision, in which a person is 
entitled, when this act takes effect, to commence an action, or to insti­
tute a special proceedin~, or to take any proceeding therein, or to pur­
sue a remedy upon a Judgment, whete he commences, institutes, or
otherwise resorts to the same, before the expiration of two years after
this act takes effect; in either of which cases, the provisions of law ap­
plicable thereto, immediately before this act takes effect, continue to be 
so applicable, notwithstanding the repeal thereof.
. 4. A ease, where the time to commence an action has expired, when 
this act takes ~ft'ect.
The word, " action," contained in thi~ chapter, is to be construed, 
'fihen ~tis neceesa.ry sb to do, as including a special proceeding, or any
proceeding therein, or in. an action. 
§ 415. The peri?ds of littii~ationl pre~cribed by this chapter, excep~
as otherwise specially prescribed ttlereint must be computed from the
time of the accruing of the right to relief by action, special proceeding, 
defense, or otherwise, as the case requires, to the time when the claim
to that relief ie actually interposed by the party, as a plaintifft' or a de­
fendant, in the particulu action or special proceeding. 
CHAPTER V. 
COMMENCEMENT OF AND PARTIES TO AN ACTION. 
TITLE 1.-CQKKQC~J.NT OP All ACTION. 
TITLB II.-P .AJ\TIBI TO A.If AOTJ()lf. 
ARTICLB FIRST. 
'.l'ml Smqlon il)) .lOOO)Ql'AllYilfG PA.Pua: PIQl801U.L SnVIo.a mmmo~; APPat.la· 
UOJI OJr THB. DJQ'U~T. 
Siwno• '18. Action to be commenced by summons; time when court acquire8
· jurisdiction. 
'1'1, RequiaiHS of BUmmODL 
TITLE I, 
c~ of an Qetioa. 
Aa,TIOLB 1. The summons and accompanying papere; personal ~ce thereof a 
appean.nce of the defendant. '
I. 8ubetituteB for personal serviee i. special c..... 
418. Form of summena,
~9. Service of copy compla.int or notice with s~ous; consequence. el, 
fa.ilure.
420. Cases. where such service must be made, 
421. Appea1'8.llce of defendant.
ffi. When defend.Ant must answer at time of appearing. 
423. Notice of no personal claim ; eft'ect of service the~f.
424, Effect of voluntary appearance, 
425. Summons ; when andb1 whom served, Sheriff's duty.
426. How peffK?nal ser~ce o eumff!ODB made upon a nattll'al pe~. 
427, 428. Id. ; m cert&in ca.see of iatancy, or lunacy, et.c., no, JUdiciallJ'
deelared, 
429. Id.; when delivery of copy te lw;aatic dispensed with.
430. Designation, by a resident, of a person upon whom to serve a sum- 
mons during his abeence ; effect and revocation thereof.
431. How personal service of summons made upon a domea& corporation.
43'J. Id. ; upon a foreign corporation.
433. Service of process, et.c., to commence a special proceed.ing.
434. Proof ot service of summons, et.c. ; how made. 
§ 416. A civil action is commenced by the service of a summons.
But from the time of the granting of a provlsional remedy, the court
acquires jurisdiction, and has control of all the subsequent proceedings.
Nevertheless, jurisdiction thus acquired is conditional, and liable to be
divested, in a eaee where the jurisdiction of the eonrt is made depend- 
ent, by a special provision of law, upon some act, to be done after the
granting of the provisionel remedy. 
§ 417. The summons must contain the title of the action, specifying
the court in which the action is brought, the names of the parties to
the action, and, if it is brou~ht in the supreme court, the name of the
county in which the plaintifff' desires the trial; and it must be subscribed by the p1$.intift''s attorney, who. must add to h,is si~ature bis
ofiiee address, specifying ~ place within the State where there ~ a 
77 
pest-office, If in a city he must add the street, and street number, if
any, or other suitable designation of the particular locality. . 
§ 418. The summons, exclusive of the title of the action and the
subscription, must be substantially in the following form, the blanks
being properly filled : 
"To the above named defendant: You are hereby summoned to an­
swer the complaint in this action, and to serve a copy of your answer
on the plaintifff's attorney within twenty days after the service of this
summons, exclusive of the day of service ; and in case of your failure
to appear or answer, judgment will be taken agaiDBt you by default,'
for the relief demanded in the complaint. Dated ." The sum­
mons is deemed the mandate of the court. 
§ 419. A copy of the complaint may be served with the summons. 
H a copy of the complaint is not served with the summons, the plain­
tiff' cannot take judgment by default,~ application to the court, 
unless either the defendant appears, or a notice is served with the
summons, stating the sum of money for judgment will be ta.ken,
and the case is one embraced in the next section. 
§ 420. Judgment may be taken wit~out application to the court,
where the complaint sets forth one or more causes of action, each con­ 
sisting of the breach of an express contract to pay, absolutely or upon
a contingency, a sum or sums of money, fixed by the terms of the con­
tract, or capable of being ascertained therefrom, by computation only;
or an express or implied contract to pay money received or disbursed,
or the value of property delivered, or of services rendered by, to, or for
the use of, the defendant or a third person ; and thereupon demands
judgment for a sum of money only. This section includes a case,
where the breach of the contract set forth in the complaint, is only
partial; or where the complaintshows that the amount of the plaintifff's
demand baa been reduced by payment, counterclaim, or other credit. 
§ 421. The defendant's appearance mu.st be made by serving upon
the plaintifff's attorney, within twenty days after service of the
summons, exclusive of the day of service, a notice of ap_pearance, or a 
copy of a demurrer or of an answer. A notice or pleading, 80 served, 
must be subscribed by the defendant's attorney, who must add to his 
signature his office address, with the particulB.l'B prescribed in section
four hundred and seventeen of this act, concerning the office address
of the plaintifff's attorney. 
§ 422. A defendant, upon whom the plaintifff' baa served, with the
summons, a copy of the complaint, must serve a copy of bis demurrer 
or answer upon the plaintifff's attorney, before the expiration of the
time, within which the summons requires him to answer. If a copy of
the complaint is not 80 served, a notice of appearance entitles him only
to notice of the subsequent proceedings, unless within the same time
he demands the service of a copy of the complaint as prescribed in section four hundred and seventy-nine of this act. 
§ 423. Where a personal claim is not ma.de against a defendant, a
notice, subscribed by the plaintifff's attorney, setting forth the general
object of the action, a brief description of the property affected by it,
if it affects specific real or personal property, and that a personal claim
is not made against him, may be served with the summons. If the
defendant 80 served, unreasonably defends the action, coats may be 
awarded against him.
§ 424. A voluntary general appearance of the defendant is equiv- 
a.lent to personal service of the summons upon him. 
§ 425. The summons may be served by any person, other than ~
party to the action, except where it is otherwise specially prescribe 
by law. The plaintifff's attorney may, by an indorsement on the sum
mons, fix a time within which the service thereof must be me.de; i 
that case, the service cannot be made afterwards. Where a summons]
is delivered for service to the sheriff of the county, wherein the defend-:
ant is found, the sheriff must serve it, and return it, with proof of
service, to the plaintifff's attorney, with reasonable diligence. 
§ 426. Personal service of the summons upon a defendant, being a
natural person, must be made by delivering a copy thereof, within the 
State, as follows :
1. If the defendant is an infant, under the age of fourteen yea.rs, to!:'~~~=· 
the infant in person, and also to his father, mother or guardian; or,
if there is none within the State, to the person having the ca.re and
control of him, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is
employed. 
2. If the defendant is a person judicially declared to be incompetent
to manage bis affairs, in consequence of lunacy, idiocy or habitual
drunkenness, and for whom a committee has been appointed, to the
committee, and also to the defendant in person. 
8. If the action is against a sheriff, for a cause epeeifled in section
one hundred and :fifty-ei~ht of this act, by delivering it to the de
fendant in person, or to his under-sheriff in person, or at the office of
the sheriff,durin8: the hours when it is required by law to be kept open,
to a deputy-sheriff or a clerk in the employment of the sheriff, or other
person in charge of the office. 
4. In any other case,to the defendant in person.
§ 427. If the defendant is an infant of the age of fourteen years, or 
upwards, or if the court has, in its opinion, reasonable ground to
believe, that the defendant, by reason of habitual drunkenness, or for 
any other cause, is mentally incapable adequately to protect his rights,
although not judicially declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs, 
the court may, in its discretion, with or without an application therefore,
and in the defendant's interest, make an order, requiring a copy of the 
summons to be also delivered, in behalf of the defendant, to a person 
designated in the order, and that service of the summons shall not be
deemed complete, until it is so delivered. 
§ 428. In a case specified in subdivision first or second of section four
hundred and twenty-six of this act, where the court has, in its opinion, 
reasonable ground to believe, that the interest of the person, other than
the defendant, to whom a. copy of the summons has been delivered, is adverse to that of the defendant, or that, for any reason, be is not a fit per·
son to protect the rights of the defendant, it may likewise make an order, 
88 prescribed in the last section. In a case specified in subdivision seccond, the court may, 88 a part of the same order, or by a. separate order, 
made, in like manner and upon like ground, at any stage of the action,
appoint a special guardian ad litem to conduct the aefence for the
incompetent defendant, to the exclusion of the committee, and with
the same powers, and subject to the same liabilities, as a committee of 
Uie property. .
§ 429. Where the defendant bas been judicially declared to be 
incompetent to manage his affairs, in coneeq uence of lunacy' and it
appears satisfactorily to the court, by affidavit, that the delivery of a 
copy of the summons to him, in person, will tend to aggravate his disorder, or to lessen the probability of his recovery, the court may make 
79 
an order, dispensing with such delivery. In that case; a delivery of a
copy of the summons, to a committee duly appointed for him, i'5 suffl­
eient personal service upon the defendant. 
§ 430. A resident of the State, of full age, may execute, under bis
hand, and acknowledge, in the manner required by Jaw to entitle a 
deed to be recorded, a written designation of another resident of' thft
State, as a person upon whom to serve a summons, or any process or 
other paper for the commencement of a civil special proceeding, in any
court. or. before any officer, during the absence from the United Stat.es
of the person making the designation ; and may file the same, with
the written consent of the person so designated, executed and acknowl- 
edged in the same manner, in the office of tbe clerk of the county,
where the person making the designation resides. The designation
must specify the oc~upa~ion or other proper addition, a!1d the residen~ 
of the person makmg It, and also of the person designated : and 1i
remains in force during the perlodspecifled therein, if any; or, if no 
period is specified. for that purpose, for tbm~...:e1~- aft~r the filing
thereof. But it is revoked earlier, by. the death: or egar'mcompetency 
of either of the pal'ties thereto ; or by the filing of a revocation
thereof, or of the consent, executed and acknowledged in like manner.
The clerk must file and record such a designation, consent, or revo­
cation ; and must note, upon the record of the original designation,
the filin~ and recording c,f a revocation. While the designation
remains m force, as prescribed in this section, a summons, or any pro­
eess or other paper for the commencement of a civil special proceeding,
against the person making it, in any court or before any officer, may be
served upon the person so designated, in like manner and with like 
effect, as if it was. served personally upon the person making the des­
ignation, notwithstanding the return of the latter to the United States. 
§ 431. Personal service of the summons upon a defendant, being a
domestic corporation, must be made by delivering a copy thereof, 
within the State, as follows:
1. If the action is against the mayor, alderman,* and commonalty of, 
the city of New-York, to the mayor, comptroller, or counsel to the corporation. 
2. If the action is against any other city, to the mayor, treasurer,
counsel, attorney, or clerk; or, if the city lacks either of those officers,
to the officer performing corresponding functions, under another name. 
3~ In any other case, to the president or other head of the corpora­
tion, the secretary or clerk to the corporation, the cashier, the treas­ 
urer, or a director or managing agent.
§ 432. Personal service of the summon~, uPon a defendant, bei~g. a 
foreign corporation,_ must be made by delivering a copy thereof, within
the State, as follows : . . 
1. To the president, treasurer, or secretary; or, if the corporation
lacks either of those officers, to the officer performing corresponding 
functions, under another name.
2. To a person designated for t~e purpose .by a ~ting, u.nder t~e 
seal of the corporation, and the signa~ure ~f Its presi~ent, vice-presi­
dent or other acting bead, accompanied with the wntten consent of
the person designated, and filed in the office of the Secretary of State. 
The designation must specif~ a place, withi'f!- t~e ~ta~, ~ the ?ffice or
residence of the person designated; and, 1f 1t is within a city, the 
street, and street number, if any, or.other suitable designation of the
particular locality. It remains in force, until the filing in the same 
office of a. written revocation thereof, or of the consent, executed in
like manner; but the person designated may, from time to time,
change the place specified as his office or residence, to some other place
within the State, by a. writing, executed by him, and filed in like manner. The Secretary of State may require the execution of any instrument, specified in this section, to be authenticated as he deems proper,
and he may refuse to file it without such an authentication. An exemplified copy of a. designation so filed, accompanied with a certificate
that it has not been revoked, is presumptive evidence of the execution
thereof, and conclusive evidence of the authority of the officer exe- 
cuting it.
3. If such a designation is not in force, or if neither the person 
designated, nor an. officer specified in subdivision first of this section,
can be found with due diligence, and the corporation has property
within the State, or the cause of action arose therein; to the cashier,
a director, or a managing agent of the corporation, within the State. 
§ 433. The provisions of this article, relating to the mode of service
of a. summons, apply likewise to the service of Bny process or other
paper, whereby a special proceeding is commenced in a court, or before
an officer, except a. proceeding to punish for contempt, and except
where special provision for the service thereof is otherwise made by law. 
§ 434. Proof of service, as prescribed in this article, must be made
by affidavit except as follows· 
1. It the service was made by the sheriff, it may be proved by his
certificate thereof. 
2. If the defendant served is an adult, who has not been judicially
declared to be incompetent to manage his affairs, the service may be 
proved by a written admission, signed by him, and either acknowl­
edged by him, and certified in like manner as a deed to be recorded 
in the county, or accompanied with the affidavit of a. person, other
than the plaintifff, showing that the signature is genuine. 
· A certificate,. admission, or affidavit of service of a summons, must
state the time and place or service. A written admission of the ser­
vice of a summons, or of a paper accompanying the same, imports,
unless otherwise expressly stated therein, or otherwise plainly to be 
inferred from its contents, that a copy of the paper was delivered to 
the person signing the. admission. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
8UB8TITt7TB8 FOB PBB.801UL 8BRVIOB llf SPBCIAL C.UBS. 
8BOTI01' 485. Order for service of summons from supreme court, when defendant
not found, etc . 
. 436. How service must be made.
437. Papers to be filed ; proof of service.
438. Cases in which service of summons by publication, etc., may be 
ordered.
439. Papers upon which order for publication may be made.
440. By wham order may be made; eontents of order.
441. When publioa.tion must be commenced; when service deemed com­ 
plete.
442. Papers to be filed; notice to defendant. 
8BOrIO:S 448. Id. ; when service is made without the State.
444. Proof of service. 
446. Defenda.nt when allowed to defend. 
a-x eli.6f ~@~ 
§ 435. Where a summons is issued in '- HllfNme eourt, an orde:r
for the service thereof, upon a defendant residing within the State
may be made by the court, or a judge thereof, or the couuty judge of 
the county where the action is triable, upon satisfactory proof, by the
affidavit of a person, not a party to the action, or by the return of the 
sheriff' of the county where the defendant resides, that proper and
diligent effort has been made to serve the summons upon the defend­
ant, and that the place of his sojourn cannot be ascertained, or, if he 
is within the State, that he a.voids service, so that personal service cannot be made. · 
§ 436. The order must direct, that the service of the summons be
made, by leaving a copy thereof, and of the order, at the residence of 
the defendant, with a person of proper age, if upon reasonable appli­
cation, admittance can be obtained, and such a person found who will
receive it; or, if admittance cannot be so obtained, nor such a person ·
found, by affixing the same to the outer or other door oft.he defendant's
residence, and by depositing another copy thereof, properly incloscd
in a post-paid wrapper, addressed to him, at bis place of residence, in
the post-office at the place where he resides. 
§ 437. The order, and the papers upon which it was granted, must
be filed, and the service must be made, within ten days after the order 
is granted; otherwise the order becomes inoperative. On tiling an
affidavit, showing service according to the order, the summons is
deemed served, and the same proceedings may be taken thereupon, as
if it had been served by publication, pursuant to an order for that pur­ 
pose, made as prescribed in the next section.
§ 488. An order, directing the service of a summons upon a de­ 
fendant, without the State, or by publication, may be made in either
of the following cases : 
1. Where the defendant to be se:rved is a foreign corporation] or
being a natural person, is not a resident of the State ; or where, afte:r
diligent inquiry, the defendant remains unknown to the plaintifff, or
the plaintifff' is unable to ascertain whether the defendant is or is not 
a resident of the State.
2. Where the defendant, being a resident of the State, has departed 
the:refrom with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service
of a summons; or keeps himself concealed therein, with like intent. 
S. Where the defendant, being an adult, and a resident of the State,
has been continuously without the United States more than six months
next before the granting of the order, and bas not made a designation
of a person, upon whom to se:rve a summons in his behalf, as pre­
scribed in section four hundred and thirty of this act; or a designation
so made no longer :reme.ins in force ; or service upon the person so
designated cannot be made within the State, after diligent effort. 
4. Where the complaint demands judgment annulling a mar­ 
riage, or for a divorce, or a separation.
5. Where the complaint demands judgment, that the defendant 
be excluded from a vested or coutin~nt interest in, or lien upon,
specific real or personal property withm the State; or that such an
interest or lien in favor of either party be enforced, regulated, deftned
or limited; or otherwise affecting the title to such property. 
~ 
6. Where the defendant is a resident of the State, or a domestic eorporation ; and an attempt was made to commence the action against
the defendant, as required in chapter fourth of this act, before the
expiration of the limitation applicable thereto, as fixed in that chapter; and the limitation would have expired within sixty days next
preceding the application, if the time had not been extended by the
attempt to commence the action. 
7. Wbere the action is against the stockholders of a corporation, or
joint-stock company, and is authorized by a law of the State, and the
defendant is a stockholder thereof. 
§ 439. The order must be founded upon a verified complaint, showing o. sufficient cause of action against the defendant to be served, and
proof by affidavit of the additional facts required by the last section;
and also, where the application is made upon the ground that the de- 
f endant is a foreign corporation, or not a resident of the State, or in a
case specified in subdivision fourth, fifth or seventh of the last section,
that the plaintifff has been or will be unable, with due diligence, to
make personal service of the summons. 
§ 440. The order may be made by a judge of the court, or the
county judge of the county where the action is triable. It must
direct that service of the summons, upon the defendant named or
described in the order, be made by publication thereof in two news- 
papers, designated in the order as most likely to give notice to the
defendant, for a specified time, which the judge deems reasonable, not
less than once a. week for six successive weeks ; or, at the option .of the
plaintifff, by service of the summons, and of a. copy of the complaint
and order, without the State, upon the defendant personally, if he is
of full age, or an infant of the age of fourteen years or upwards; or, if
the defendant is a corporation, upon an officer thereof, specified in section four hundred and thirty-one or four hundred and thirtytwo of this act. It must also contain, either a direction that,
on or before the day of the first publication, the plaintifff deposit in
a specified post-office, one or more sets of copies of the summons,
complaint, and order, each contained in a. securely closed post-paid
wrapper, directed to the defendant, at a place specified in the order;
or a statement that the judge, being satisfied, by the afilda.vits upon
which the order was granted, that the plaintifff cannot, with reasonable
diligence, ascertain a place or places, where the defendant would
probably receive matter transmitted through the post-office, dispenses
with the deposit of any papers therein. 
§ 441. The first publication, in each newspaper designated in the
order, or the service upon the defendant, without the State, must be 
made within three months after the order is granted. For the purpose
of reckoning the time, within which the defendant must appear or answer, service by publication is complete, upon the day of the last pub-1"? 
lication pursuant to the order; and service made without the State is
complete, upon the expiration thereafter of a time equal to that prescribed for publication. · 
§ 442. Where service is ma.de by publication, the summons, complaint, and order, and the papers upon which the order was ma.de, must
be filed with the clerk, on or before the day of the first publica.tion ;
and a notice, subscribed by the plaintifff's attorney, and directed only
to the defendant or defendants to be thus served, substantiaJly in the 
following form, the blanks being properly filled up, must be subjoined
to, and published with the summons : 
"To : The foregoing summons is served upon you, by
publication, purSllant toan order of · ·· · · · "(naming the judge 
and his official title), "dated the day of· , 18 · , and
filed with the complaint in the office of the clerk of · at . " 
§ 448. Where service is made without the State, the papers specified
in the last section must be previously filed ; and a notice must be 
served with the summons, in all respects like the notice required by the
last section, except that the words, "without the State of New York," 
must be substituted for the words, " by publication." 
§ 444. Proof of the publication of the summons and notice must be
made by the affidavit of the printer or publisher, or bis foreman or prin .. 
cipal clerk. Proof of deposit in the post-office, or of delivery, of a paper
required to be deposlted or delivered by the provisions of this artiele,
must be made by the affidavit of the person, who deposited ot deliv­ 
ered it. , · · 
§ 445. Where the summons is served, pursuant to an order made ·as
prescribed in this article, a.nd the defendant so served does not appear,
he, or his representative, on application and sufficient cause shown, at 
any time before final jndgment, must be allowed to defend the action;
and, except in an action for divorce, or wherein the contrary is ex .. 
pressly prescribed by law, the defendant, or his representative, must, ·
in like manner, upon ~ood cause shown, and upon just terms, be allowed 
to defend, after final Judgment, at any time within one year after per ..
sonal service of written notice thereof; or, if such e. notice has not been
served, within seven years after the filing of the judgment-roll. If the
defense is successful, and the judgment, or any pa.rt thereof, has · been
collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be com­
pelled, as the court directs; but the title to property, sold, to a. pur­
chaser in good faitb,pursuant to a direction contained in the judgment,
or by vir+.ue of an execution issued upon the same, shall not be affected 
thereby. 
ARTICLE 1
bTICt.B 1. Parties genenlly. 
· · · i. , Partiee severally liable.
8. Partiee proeeeuting and defending aa poor pe1'l!IOIUlo 
. '- _ Infan;t plaintifffs and defendants. 
IJJaario:&: 446 •. Who m&y be joined as plaintifft's.
44'T. Id. ; 88 defendants. 
· 448. Parties united in interest, when to be joined ; when one or more mmr 
8' 
. Tl'fLJ II. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
P..urnu GBlfBR.ULT • 
· ne or defend fol'" the ·W'hole. , · • · · · · · -, 
449. Trustee or express trust, ete., may ~~e without perso~· be~~cially
/ interested. 
450. When married woman is a party. 
451. When defendant or bis name is unknown.
462. When court to decide coot.roversy, or to order other parties to be 
brought in. » 
453. Supplemental summons. 
1, 
§ 446. All persons h~ving an inie,~st In .the subject or'.the action,' a~~
in obtaining the judgment demanded, may be joined as plaintifff's, except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this act. · . 
§ 447. Any person may be made a defendant, who has or claims an
interest in the controversy, adverse. to the plaintifff', or who is a uecessary 
party defendant, for the complete determination or settlement of a question involved therein; except as otherwise expressly prescribed in this
act. 
§ 448. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
JDUSt be joined as plaintifff's or defendants, except as otherwise expressly
pret1eribed in this act. But if the consent of any one, who ought to be 
joined as a plaintifff', cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant,
the reason therefore being stated in the complaint. And where the 
question is one of a. common or general interest of many persons; or
where the persons, who might be made parties, are very numerous, and 
it may be impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more
m~ sue or defend for the benefit of all. 
§ 449. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party
in interest, except that an executor or administrator, a trustee of an 
express trust, or a person. expressly authorized by statute, may sue,
without joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is 
prosecuted. A person, with whom or in whose name, a contract is
made for the benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust, within
the meaning of this section. . . 
§ 450. In an action or special proceeding a married woman appears,
prosecutes, or defends, alone or joined with other parties as if she was
single. It is not necessary or proper to join her husband with her as a
party in any action or special proceeding affecting her separate property. 
§ 451. Where the plaintifff is ignorant of the name or part of the
name of a defendant, he may designate that defendant, m the sum- 
mons, and in any other process or proceeding in the action, by a
fictitious name, or by as much of his name BB is known, adding a. 
description, identifying the person intended. Where the plaintifff
demands judgment against an 'unknown person, he may designate that
pert:1on as unknown, adding a description, tending to identify him. In 
either case, the person intended is thereupon regarded as a defend.ant
in the action, and as sufficiently described therein, for all purposes, 
ineludin~ service of the summons, as prescribed in article second of
the last title. When the name, or the remainder of the name, or the
person, becomes known, an order must be made by the court, upon
such notice and such terms as it prescribes, that the proceedings
already taken be deemed amended, by the insertion of the true name,
in place of the flctitlous name or part of a name, or the designation 
as an unknown person ; and that all subsequent proceedings be taken
under the true name. 
§ 452. The court may determine. the controversy, as between the
parties before it, where it can do so without prejudice to the rights of
~tbers,. or ~y saying the.ii; rights ; ~ut where a complete determination 
of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, 
th di h
e court must 1~ct t em t.o. be brou~ht in. A~d where a pe~n, not 
a party to the action, has an mterest m the subject thereof, or m real
property, the title to which may in any manner be affected by the
judgment, and makes application to the court to be made a party, it
must direct him to be brought in by the proper amendment. 
§ 453. Where the court directs a new defendant to be brought in,
and the order is not made upon his own application, a supplemental 
summons must be issued, directed to him, and iu the same form 8.8 an 
original summons; except that, in the body thereof, it must require
the defendant to answer the original or the amended complaint, and
the supplemental complaint, or either of them, as the case requires.
And each provision of this chapter, relating to personal service, or a
substitute for personal service of an original summons, applies to such 
a supplemental summons. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
p ..lBTIB8 8BVBRALL Y LlilLll. 
8BCTI01' 454. Pereons liable for the Ra.me demand may be sued together.
455. Defendant so sued may apply for any relief.
456. Proceedings in actions agamst defendants severally liable.
457. Application of this a.rticle to defendants jointly liable. 
§ 454. Two or more persons, severally liable upon the ~ written
instrument, including the parties to a bill of exchange or ~womistiory 
note, whether the action is brought upon the instrument, or by a party
thereto to recover against other parties liable over to him ; may, all or 
any of them, be included as defendants in the same action, at the
option of the plaintifff. 
§ 455. The joinder of a person, as defendant in an action, with 
d hi 
another person, as prescribed in the last section, oes not affect 1S
right to any order or other relief, to which he would have beeu euti- 
tied, if he had been separately sued in the action. 
§ 456. Where a summons, issued agaiuet two or more defendants,
alleged to be severally liable, is served npon some, but not upon all of 
them, the plaintifff may proceed against those upon whom it is served,
as if they were the ouly defendants named therein. Where it is served 
upon all of them, the plaintifff may take judgment against one or
more of them, where he would be entitled to judgment, if the action 
was against him or them aloue. Where judgment is so taken, the
clerk must, upon the plaintifff's application, enter an order, directing
that the action be severed, and that the plaintifff may proceed against
the other defendants. In any subsequent proceeding, the plaintifff
may use, together with a certified covy of such an order, a copy of a
paper constituting a part of the judgment-roll, with like effect as if
it was the original. 
§ 457. The last three sections do not affect a defense or other objec- 
t1011 o a e en aut, growmg out o t e ar ure jom m e ac ion
two or more persons jointly liable; and, as regards the other parties 
to the action, persons jointly liable are regarded as one party, for every
purpose contemplated by those sections. 
TITLE II
8Jlorroir 458. Who may petition tor leave to prosecute 88 a poor person.
459. Contents of petition.
460. When and how leave granted.
461. Not lia.ble for costs and tees. 
462. When leave may be annulled.
4-63. Wben defendant may petition to detend 88 a poor person 
464. Contents of petition.
465. Proceedings thereon.
466. Appea.l, when pa.rty P.roeecut.es or defends 88 a poor person.
467. Coste in favor of petitioner. 
§ 458. A poor person, not being of ability to sue, who alleges that
be bas a cause of action against another person, may apply, hy peti-1~;!~
tion, to the court in which the action is pending, or in which it is 
Inten e to be brought, for leave to prosecute as a poor person, and to 
have an attorney and counsel assigned to conduct bis action.
§ 459. The petition must state:
1. The nature of the action brought, or intended to be brought. 
2. That the applicant is not worth one hundred dollars, besides the
wearing apparel and furniture, necessary for himself and his family,
and the subject-matter of the action. 
It must be verified by the applicant's affidavit, and supported by a.
certificate of a counsellor at Jaw, to the effect that he has examined the 
case, and is of opinion that the applicant has a good cause of action.
§ 460. The court to which the petition is presented, if satisfied of 
the truth of the facts alleged, and that the applicant has n good cause
of action, may' by order, admit him to rrosecute as a poor person, and 
assign to him an attorney and counse to prosecute his action, who
most act therein without compensation. 
§ 461. A person so admitted, may prosecute his action, without paying fees to any officer; and he shall not be prevented from prosecuting 
the same, by reason of bis being liable for the costs of a former action,
brought by him against the same defendant,* if judgment is rendered
against him, or his complaint is dismissed, costs shall not be awarded
against him. 
§ 462. If the person 80 admitted is guilty of improper conduct in the
prosecution of his action, or of willful or unnecessary delay, the court
may, in its discretion, annul the order admitting him to prosecute as a 
poor person; and he shall thereafter be deprived of all the privileges
conferred thereby. 
§ 463. A defendant in an action involving his right, title, or interest,
in or to real or personal property, may petition the court, in which the 
action is pending, for leave to defend the action as a poor person, and 
to have an attorney and counsel assigned to conduct bis defense.
§ 464. The petition must contain the same matters, respecting the 
ability of the petitioner, required to be contained in a petition for leave 
to prosecute as a poor person ; and it must be supported by a similar
ce·ttificate, relating to the defense. 
§ 465. The provislons of this article, relating to the order, to be 
made upon an application for leave to prosecute as a poor person, and
the proceedings subsequent thereto, apply to the order and subsequent 
proceedings, upon an application for Ieeve to defend as a poor person.
§ 466. An order, made as prescribed in this article, does not authorize 
the petitioner to take or maintain. '.an appeal, as a.. poor , person ; but
where an appeal is taken by the adverse party, the order is applicable, 
in favor of the -petltioner, as respondent in the appeal.
§ 467. Where costs are awarded in favor of a person, who bas been 
admitted to prosecute or defend as a poor person, as prescribed in this article, they must be paid over to his attorney, when eollected from 
the adverse party, and distributed among the attoraey and, counsel
assigned to the poor person, as the court directs, 
ARTICLE ·FOURTH. 
8&0'l'lo1' 468. Right of infant to bring action.
469. Guardian for infant plaintifff' must be appointed.
470. Application therefore.
471. Application for appointment of guardi&n for infant defendant.
472. Guardian, how appointed. Clerk, when to aet .. 
473. Guardian for infant defendant in certain real actions.
474. Guardian not to receive property until security given.
475. Security.
476. Last two·twctione not to apply to genera.I guardian.
477. Liability '-Of defendant's guardian for costs. 
§ 468. Where an infant has a. .right of action, he is entitled t.o main·
tain an action thereon ; and the Mme ,shall not be- deferred or delayed,
on account of bis infancy. 
§ 469. Before a summons is issued, in. the name of an infant plain ..
tiff, a competent and responsible person mnst be appointed, to appear
as bis guardiea for the purpose of the aetioo, who shall be responsible
for the costs thereof. 
§ 470. The guardian must be appointed upon the applieation of the
infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years, or upwards; or, if he is 
under that age, upon the application of his general or testament.ary
~ardian, if he has one, or of a relative or friend. If the application 
18 made by a relative or friend, notice· thereof must be, given to his
general or testamentary guardian, if. he has one; or, if he nM none, ·to 
the person with whom the infant resides. .
§ 471. An infant defendant must aleo appear by guardian, who must 
be a competent and responsible person, appointed upon the application
of the infant, if he is of the ~e of fourteen years, or upwards, and 
applies within twenty days after personal service of the summons, or
after service thereof is complete, as· prescribed in section four hundred
and forty-one of this.act; or, if he is under that age,. or neglects sot.
apply, upon the application of any other ·part,- ·to the action, or of a
relative or friend of. the infant · Where the application is made by·a
person, other than the infant, notice thereef most be given to ma 
¥.eneral or testamentary guardian, if he has one within· the State, or,
if he has none; to the infant himself, if be is of ihe age . of fourteeu
years, or upwards, and within the S~te;· or, if be is under that age, 
and within the State, to the person with whom he resides. 
§ 472. The court in which the action is brought, or a judge thereof,
or, if the action is bro~ht in the supreme court, the county judge of 
the county where the action is triable, may appoint a guardian ad litem
for an infant, either plaintifff' or defendant, as prescribed in this article. 
The clerk must act in that capacity for an infant defendant where
the court or the judge appoints him. No person, other than the clerk,
shall be appointed a. guardian ad litem, unless his written consent,
duly acknowledged, is produced to the court or judge making the
appointment. 
§ 478. Whete an infant ctefendant resides \tithin 'the eta.~, and is
temporarily absent therefrom, the court m~y, in its discretion, make
an order designating a person to be bis guardian ad litem, unless be, 
or some one in bis behalf, procures -eueh a guardian to be' appointed,
as prescribed in the last two sections, within a specified time after service of a copy of the order. The court must ipVe special directions in
the order, respecting the service thereof, which may be upon the infant.
The summons may be served by delivering a copy to the guardian so
appointed, with like effect as where a summons is served without the
state upon an adult defendant, pursuant to an order for that purpose,
granted as prescribed in section four hundred and thirty-eight of this
act; except that the time to appear or answer istwenty days after the
service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service. 
§ 474. Except in a case where it is otherwise specially prescribed by
law, a guardian, appointed for an infant, as prescribed in this article, 
shall not be permitted to receive money or property of the infant, other
than costs and expenses allowed to the guardian by the court, until he
has given sufficient security, approved by a judge of the court, or a
county judge, to account for and apply the same, under the direction
of the court. 
§ 475. The security must be a bond to the infant, in such penalty as
the judge directs, not less than twice the sum, or the value of the property, to be received, executed by the guardian and at least two sureties
approved by the judge, and filed in the office of the clerk. The infant,
or any other party to the action, may afterwards apply for an order,
directing a new bond to be given, with an increased penalty; or the
court may ·89 direct, of its own motion. · · 
§ 476. The last two sections do not apply to the general guardian of
the infant, whohas been appointed his guardian a.d litem, as prescribed 
in this article; but the court may, at any time, re~uire the general
guardian to· give additional security for the faithful discharge of his 
trust, before receiving money or property of the infant, tinder a judgment or order in ·the action. 
§ 477. A person appointed guardian, as prescribed in this article, fo'r
an infant defendant· in an action, is not liable for· the costs ·of the action, 
unless specially charged therewith by the order of the court, for perBOn&l m.i8conduct. 
TITLE 1.-THB CON8BCUTIVB PLBA.DING8 IN A.N ACTION.
11.-PROVISIONS GENERALLY .A.PPLICABLB TO PLB.A.DIBGS. 
AnloLB 1. Complaint.
~. Demurrer.
8. Answer •
•• Reply. 
CHAPTER VI. 
PLEADINGS IN COURTS OF RECORD, INCLUDING COUNTER­
CLAIMS. 
TITLE I. 
TluJ "°"'8CUti"6 pUKldinga in an aotion. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
Coll:PUillT. 
8BO'l'I01' 478. First pleadinJ to be complaint.
479. Copy complaint. when to be aerved.
480. Consequence of failure.
481. Compla.int what to contain,
482. When interlocutory and tin&l judgment may be demanded.
483. Causes of action to be separately stated.
484. What e&U8e8 of action may be joined in the same complaint. 
* 485. When cause of action deemed single. 
* 486. When alternative legal or equitable judgment may be demanded. 
§ 478. The first pleading, on the part of the plaintifff, is the complaint.
§ 479. If a copy of the complaint is not delivered to a defendant, ai
the time of the delivery of a copy of the summons to him, either within
or without the State, his attorney may, at any time within twenty days
after the service of the summons is complete, serve upon the plaintifff's
attorney a written demand of a copy of the complaint, which must be 
served within ·twenty days thereafter. The demand may be incorpo­
rated into the notice of appearance. But where the same attorney
appears for two or more defendants, only one copy of the complaint
need be served upon him ; and if after service of a copy of the com­
plaint upon him, as attorney for a defendant, he appears for another
defendant, the last defendant must answer the complaint, within twenty
days after he appears in the action. 
§ 480. If the plaintifft''s attorney fails to serve a copy of the complaint, as prescribed in the last section, the defendant may apply to
the court for a dismissal of the complaint. 
§ 481. The complaint must contain :
1. The title of the action, specifying the name of the court in which 
it is brought; if it is brought in the supreme court, the name of the
county, which the plaintifff' designates as the place of trial; and the 
names of all the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts, constituting each cause 
of action, without unnecessary repetition.
3. A demand of the judgment to which the plaintifff supposes him­ 
self entitled. 
§ 482. In an action triable by the court, without a jury, the plaintifff
may, in a proper case, demand an interlocutory judgment, and also a 
fi
na JU gmen , rs mgms mg em c ear y.
§ 483. Where the complaint sets forth two or more causes of action, 
the statement of the facts constituting each cause of action must be 
t d
be
d
Be[>ara e an num re . 
§ 484. The plaintifff may unite, in the same complaint, two or more
causes of action, whether they are such as were formerly denominated
legal or equitable, or both, where they are brought to recover as 
follows :
1. Upon contract, express or implied. 
2. For personal injuries, except libel, slander, criminal conversation,
or seduction. 
8. For libel or slander.
4. For injuries to real property.
5. Real property, in ejectment, with or without damages for the 
withholding thereof.
6. For injuries to personal property.
7. Chattels, with or without damages for the taking or detention 
thereof.
8. Upon claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by oper­ 
ation of law.
9. Upon claims arising out of the same transaction, or transactions 
connected with the same subject of action, and not included within one
of the foregoing subdivisions of this section. 
But it must appear, npon the face of the complaint, that all the
causes of action, so united, belong to one of the foregoing subdivislona
of this section; that they are consistent with each other; and, except
as otherwise prescribed by law, that they affect all the parties to the
action ; and it must appear, upon the face of the complaint, that they
do not require different places of trial. 
§ 487. The only pleading on the part of the defendant is either a 
demurrer or an answer. 
§ 488. The defendant m&.y demur to the complaint, where one or
more of the following objections thereto appear upon the face thereof. 
1. That the court has not jurisdiction of the person of the defendant
2. That the court has not jurisdiction of the subject of the action. 
'I. S. That the plalntiff has not legal capacity to · sue.
4. That there is another action pending between the same parties, 
for the same cause. · .. 
1,-s·'/"7 
..,._ 5. That there is a misjoinder of parties plaintifff~ :"t--.. Z..>:;;: · t"" ,/.(,.. '"hl·~
x 6. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defe ant • .41- ui...":'-t· -i. 
,c 7. That causes of action have been improperly united. ~._,~ •., S \\~: ',~ 
8. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to c titute.-ca.'
cause of action. 
§ 490. The demurrer must distinctly specify the objections to the
complaint; otherwise it may · be disregarded. An objection, taken 
under subdivision first, second, fourth or eighth of section four hun­
dred and eighty-eight of this act, may be stated in the language of the subdivision; au objection, taken under either of the other subdivisions,
must point out specifically the particular defect relied upon. 
§ 492. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or to one
or more separate causes of actio_n, stated therein. In the latter case, 
be mar answer the causes of action not. demurred to.
§ 493. The defendant may also demur to the reply, or to a aeparate 
traverse to, or avoidance of, a defense or counterclaim, contained in the
reply, on the ground that it is insufficient in law, upon the face thereof. 
§ 494. The plaintifff may demur to a counterclaim or a defense con­
sisting of new matter, contained in the answer, on the ground that it 
ffi ' t · 1 th f: th f 
18 msu cien m aw, upon e ace ereo .
§ 495. The plaintifff may also demur to a counterclaim, upon which 
the defendant demands an affirmative judgment, where one or more
of the following objections thereto, appear on the face of the counter­ 
claim : 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
D.BKl1BBBB. 
Bllono1' 487. Defendant must demur or &nawer.
488. When he mar demur 
* 489. The last section qualified.
490. Demurrer to complaint must 81'.)eCify grounds of objection. 
*491. Rule, if too many grounds of objection are specifted..
492. Demurrer to &11 or part of the compla.int; demurrer to p&ri, and 
answer to part. .
493. Defendant may demur to reply.
494. When plaintifff ms.y demur to answer. 
495. Demurrer to counterclaim, when defendant dem&nds an a.tllrmative 
judgment.
496. Demurrer to countercla.irn must specify ffflUDds ot objection. 
49'i. Amendments in certain cases alter decision of demurrer.
498. When objection may be ta.ken by answer.
499. Objection ; when deemed waived. 
[:°'ts ({t.,y,v. .... ,.~l.v 
0/3 
1 That the court has not jurisdiction of the subject thereof. .
2. That the def endant hau, not legal capacity to recover upon the 
same.
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties, 
for the same ca.use. · 
4. That the counterclaim is not of the character specifled in section
five hundred and one of this act. · 
5. That the counterclaim does not state facts sufficient to constitute 
a .cauee cf action. · ·
§ 496. A demurrer, taken under the last section, must distinctly 
specify the objections to · the connterclaim; otherwise it may be disregarded.. ~e mode of sp_ecifyin~ the objections is the same, as where 
a demurrer 18 taken to a 'complaint.
§ 497. Upon the decision of a demurrer, either at a general or special 
term, or in the court of appeals, the court may, in its discretion, allow
the party in fault to plead anew or amend, upon such terms as are 
just. If a demurrer to a complaint is allowed, because two or more
causes of action have been improperly united, the court may, in its
discretion, and upon such terms as are just, direct that the action be
divided into as many actions, as are necessary for the proper determination of the causes of action therein stated. 
§ 498. Where any of the matters enumerated in section four hundred
and eighty-eight of this act as grounds of demurrer, do not appear on 
the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer.
§ 499. If such an objection 1s not taken, either by demurrer or 
answer, the defendant is deemed to have waived it ;(exc~t the objection to the jurisdiction of tl1e court, or the objection that t e complaint 
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of ~oj:1_0 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
8Barlo1' 500. Answer ; what to contain.
· 601. · Counterclaim defined. 
602. Rules respecting the allowance of counterclahne. l
608. Judgment, when demand and countercla.im are eq1141 or unequal. J 
604. Id.; fot affirmative relief. · · · · · ·
. 605. Counterclaim, when defendant is sued in a representative capacity. 
IW6: Id. ; when plaintifff" is an executor or administrator.
607. Defendant may interpoee. several defenses or counterclaims; ml• 
rela.ting thereto. 
608. Partial defenses.
609. When defenda,nt to d_emand_~~atlve judgment. 
"610 . Eft"ect of improper demand of afflrmatiie judgment.
·r;1L When pleadings admit part <'f rlaintift"'s cla.im to be j118t, action may 
be served, etc.
GU. Ju~en~. where co~terclaim on,l;- i,t iu~rpo88dfor 181!11!1 than plain• 
tilt's claim.
618. Dila.tory defenses to be veritled. 
§ 500. The answer of the defendant mnet contain :
1~ A general or specific. denial of each material allegation of the 
~mpl~~n~ controverted. by the defendant, or of any knowledge or in- 
formation thereof sufficient to form a belief. ·
2. A statement of any new matter constit.nting a defense or counter­ 
elaim, in ordinary and concise lnn!l11!10'"· ,,•itlrn,,t l""Tlf'titinn. 
~ . 
§ 501. The counterclaim, specified in the last section, must tend in
some way, to diminish or defeat the plaintifff's recovery, and must be 
one of the following causes of action against the plaintifff', or, in a proper
case, against the person whom he represents, and in favor of the de­
fendant, or of one or more defendants, between whom and the plaintifff a
separate judgment may be had in the action: 
1. A cause of action, arising out of the contract or transaction, set
forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintifff's claim, or con­
nected with the subject of the action. 
2. In an action on contract, any other cause of action on contract,
existing at the commencement of the action. 
§ 502. But the counterclaim, specified in subdivision second of the
la.st section, is subject to the following rules : 
1. If the action is founded upon a contract, which has been assigned
by the party thereto, other than a negotiable promissory note or bill of
exchange, a demand, existing against the party thereto, or an assignee
of the contract, at the time of the assignment thereof, and belonging
to the defendant, in good faith, before notice of the assi~ment, must
be allowed as a counterclaim, to the amount of the plaintifff's demand,
if it might have been so allowed against the party, or the assignee,
while the contract belonged to him. . 
2. If the action is upon a negotiable promissory note or bill of ex­
change, which has been assigned to the plaintifff after it became due, a
demand, existing against a person who assigned or transferred it, after
it became due, must be allowed as a counterclaim, to the amount of the
plaintifff's demand, if it might have been so allowed against the
assignor, while the note or bill belonged to him. 
S. If the plaintifff is a trustee for another, or if the action is in the
name of a plaintifff', who has no actual interest in the contract upon
which it is founded, a demand against the plaintifff' shall not be allowed
as a counterclaim ; but so much of a demand existing agail18t the per­
son whom he represents, or for whose benefit the action is bronght, as
will satisfy the plaintifff's demand, must be allowed as a counterclaim,
if it might have been so allowed in an action brought by the person 
beneficially interested. 
§ 503. Where a counterclaim is eetabllehed, which equals the plain­
tiff''s demand, the judgment must be in favor of the defendant. Where 
it is less than the plaintifff's demand, the plaintifff must have J0udeient
for the residue only. Where it exceeds the plaintifff's demand, t e de- 
Cendant must have judgment for the excess, or so much thereof as is
due from the plaintifff. Where part of the excess is not due from the 
§ 504. In a· case not specified in the last section, where a counter­
laim is established, which entitles the defendant to an affirmative 
plaintifff, the jndgment does not prejudice the defendant's right to re­
cover, from another person, so much thereof as the judgment does not
cancel. 
[udgment, demanded in the answer, judgment must be rendered for
he defendant accordingly. 
§ 505. In an action against an executor or an administrator, or other
person sued in a representative capacity, the defendant may set forth, 
as a counterclaim, a demand belonging to the decedent, or other person
whom he represents, where the person so represented would have been
entitled to set forth the same, in an action against him. 
§ 506. In an action brought by an executor or administrator, in bis rep­
resentative capacity, a demand against the decedent, belonging, at the 
time of bis death, to the defendant., may be set forth by the defendant
as a counterclaim, as if the action had been brought by the decedent 
in his lifetime; and, if a balance is fouud to be due to the defendant,
judgment must be rendered therefore against the plaintifff, in his repre­
sentative capacity. Execution can be issued upon such a judgment,
only in a case where it could be issued upon a judgment, in an action
against the executor or administrator. 
§ 507. A defendant may set forth, in his answer, as many defenseirey~
or counterclaims, or both, as he has, whether the are such as were 
formerly denominated legal or equitable. Each defense or counterclaim must be separately stated, and numbered. Unless it is interposed as an answer to the entire complaint, it must distinctly refer to 
the cause of action which it is intended to answer. 
§ 508. A :pal'tial def'ence may be set forth, as prescribed in the last section; but it TIJBt be eyrceH~ §tated t,Q be a p,rtj11) .def~~ to the 
entire complaint, or to one or more separate causes of action, therein
set forth. Upon a demurrer thereto, tbe qne,tjgp i, whether it is 
sufficient for that purpose. Matter tending only to mitigate or reduce'
damages, in an action to recover damages for the breach of a promise 
to marry, or for a personal injury, or an injury to property, is a partial
defense within the meaning of this section. 
t
§ 500. Where the defendant deems himself entitled to an affirmativemend 
"ud~ent against the plaintifff, by reason of a counterclaim interposed
· h t d d h · dgm t ' h' 
y rm, e mus eman t e Jll en m 18 answer.
§ 511. Where the answer of the defendant, expressly or by not 
denying, admits a. part of the plaintifff's claim to be just, the court,
upon the plaintifff's motion, may, in its discretion, order that the action 
be severed ; that a judgment be entered for the plaintifff for the part
so admitted; and, if the plaintifff' so elects, that the action be con- 
tinned, with like effect, as to the subsequent proceedings, as if' it had
been originally brought, for the remainder of the claim. The order 
must prescribe the time and manner of the plaintifff's election. If the
plaintifff' elects to continue the action, bis right to costs upon the judgment is the same, as if it was taken in an action brought for only that
part of the claim. If the plaintifff does not elect to continue the action, 
costs must be awarded, as upon final judgment in any other cue.
§ 512. In an action upon contract, where the complaint demands 
judgment for a sum of money only, if the defendant, by his answer,
does not deny the plaintifff's claim, but sets up a counterclaim. amount- 
ing to less than the plaintifff's claim, the plaintifff, upon filing with the
clerk an admission of the counterclaim, may take judgment f'or the 
excess, as upon a default for want of an answer. The admission must
be made a part of the judgment-roll. 
§ 513. A defense, which does not involve the merits of the action,
shall not be pleaded, unless it is verified as prescribed in title second 
of this chapter. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
RBPLT. 
8BO'l'IOll' 514. Reply ; what to contain.
544. Judgment upon failure to reply. 
1>16. Cases where the court may require & replf. 
- 617. Plaintiff' may set forlh several avoidances in reply. 
§ 514. Where the ~er .contaias a counterclaim, the plaintifff',
if he does not demur, may reply to the · eonnterclaim. The reply
must contain a general er specific denial of each material allegation of
the counterclaim,. controverted by the plaintiff, or, of any knowledge
or information thereof sufficient to form a belief; and it may set forth
in ordinary and concise. language, without repetition, new matter not
inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a. defense to the counter­
claim. 
§ 515. If the plaintifff" fails to reply or demur to the counterclaim,
the defendant may apply, upon notice, for judgment. thereupon; and,
if the case requires it, a reference may be ordered, or a. writ of inquiry 
may be issued, as prescribed in chapter eleventh of this act, where the
plaintifff applies for judgment. 
§ 516. Where au answer contains new matter, constituting a defense
by way of a.v:oidance, the court may, in it.a discretion, on the defend­
ant's application, direot the plaintifff to reply to the new matter. In 
that case, the reply, and the proceedings upon failure to reply. are 
oubject to the same rules as in the case of a counterclaim.
§ 517. A reply may contain two or more distinct avoidances of the 
same defense or co.u~terclaim; but they must. be• separately stated and
numbered. 
TITLE
Prooisiom generally applicab/6 to pkading,. 
a.ario.s 518. Application and effect of this chapter.
519. Pleadings to be liberally construed. 
520. Pleadings to be subscribed r within what time t.o be served.
521. When defendant to serve copy answer on co-defendant.
522. Allegation not denied ; when to be deemed true. 
523. When pleading must be verified ; and when verification may be
omitted. 
524. Form and construction of certain allegations and denials in verified
pleadlngs. 
525. Verification : how and br. whom made.
526. Form of affidavit of verification. 
527. When verification may he confined to a counterclaim
528. ·Remedy for defective verification, or want of verification. 
529. When defendant not excused from verifying answer to charge of fraud.
530. Private statute; how pleaded.
631. Account; how pleaded. Hill of particulars. 
632. Judgments; how pleaded.
538. Conditions precedent; how pleaded.
634. Ins~ument for payment of money , how pleaded.
53.'>. Pleadings in libel and slander,
636. Pleading mitigating circumstances, in action for a wrong. 
637. Frivolous pleadings; how disposed of.
638. Sham defenses to be stricken out.
639. Material variances; how provided for.
640. Immaterial ,·0,1ia.nces ; how provided for.
641. What to be deemed a failure of proof.
642. Amendments of course.
643. Amended pleading to be served ; answer thereto. 
M4. Supplemental pleadings,
545. When a pleading may be excepted to ; mode and effect or excepting. 
546. Proceedings after exception.
•547, Determination upon the exception; costs; when theattorney maybe 
ordered to pay costs. 
§ 518. Thie chapter prescribes the form of pleadings in an action,
and the rules by which the sufficiency thereof is determined, except
where special provision is otherwise made by law. 
§ 519. The allegations of a pleading must be liberally construed,
with a view to substan ial justice between the parties. 
§ 520. A pleading must be subscribed by the attorney for the party.
A. copy of each pleading, subsequent to the complaint, must be served 
on the attorney for the adverse party, within twenty days after service
of a copy of the preceding pleading. 
§ 521. Where the judgment may determine the ultimate rights of
two or more defendants, as between themselves, a defendant, who
.requires such a determination, must demand it in his all8'!,.er, and
must, at lP.8.8t ten days before the trial, serve a copy of bis answer upon 
the attorney for each of the defendants, to be affected by the <let.erruination. The controversy between the defendauts shall not .delay a. 
J 
TITLE II. 
§ 522. Each material allegation of the complaint, not controverted
y the answer, and each material allegation of new matter in the an- 
judgment, to which the plaintifff is entitled; unless the court otherwise
directs. 
wer, not controverted by the reply, where a reply is required, must,
or the purposes of the action, be t.aken as true. But an allegation ot 
ew matter in the answer, to which a reply is not required, or of new
atter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party, 
y traverse or avoidance, as the case requires, 
§ 523. Where a pleading is verified, each subsequent pleading, ex­
cept a demurrer, or the general answer of an infant by bis guardian 
ad litem, most also be verified. But the verification may be omitted,
in a case where it is not otherwise specially prescribed by law, where
the party pleading would be privileged from testifying, as a witness, 
concerning an allegation or denial contained in the pleading. {A pleading cannot be used, in a criminal pros~~tion against the plL'rty, as 
proof of a. fact admitted or alleged ther~
§ 524. The allegations or denials in a verified pleading must, in form, 
be stated to be made by the party pleading. Unless they are therein
stated to be made upon t.be information and belief of the party, they
must be regarded, for all pnrposes, including ft. criminal prosecution, 
as having been made upon the knowledge of the person verifying the
pleading. An allegation that the party bas not sufficient knowledge 
or information, to form a belief, with respect to a matt.er, must, for the
same purposes, be regarded as an allegation that the person verifying
the pleading has not such knowledge or information. 
§ 525. The verification must be made by the affidavit of the party,
or, if there are two or more parties united in interest, and pleading 
together, by at least one of them, who is acquainted with the facts,
except as follows : 
1. Where the party is a domestic corporation, the verification must 
be made by an officer thereof.
2. Where the people of the State are, or a public officer, in their 
behalf, is the party, the verification may be made by any person ac- 
qnainted with the facts. 
8. Where the party is a foreign corporation ; or where the party
Is not within the county where the attorney resides, or,if the latter is
not a resident of the State, the county where he has his office, and
capable of making the affidavit; or, if there are two or more parties
united in interest, and plea.din~ together, where neither of them,
acquainted with the facts, is within that county, and capable of 
making the affidavit ~r ~ere the action or defense is founded upon
a written instrument payment of money only, which is in the 
J)088088ion of the agent or the attoJ:'1i::YJ:rr where all the material alle­
gations of the plea.din~ are wi personal knowledge of the 
agent or the attorney ; m either case, the verification may be made
by t~e agent of or the attorney for the party. 
§ 526. The affidavit of verification must be to the effect, that the
pleading is true to the knowledge of the deponent, except as to the 
matters therein stated to be alle~ed on information and belief, and that
as to those matters he believes 1t to be true. Where it is made by a
person, other than the party, he must set forth, in the affidavit, the
grounds of bis belief, as to all matters not stated upon his knowledge, 
and the reason why it is not made by the party.
lt8 
§ 527. Where the complaint is not verified, and the answer sets up
counterclaim, and also a defense by way of denial or avoidance, the 
affidavit of verification may be made to refer exclusively to the counterclaim. In that case, the last three sections are applicable to the affi- 
davit and the counterclaim, as if the latter was a separate pleading.
§ 528. The remedy for a defective verification of a pleading is to 
treat the same as an unverified pleading. Where the copy of a pleading is served without a copy of a sufficient verification, in a case where 
the adverse party is entitled to a verified pleading, he may treat it as
a nullity, provided he gives notice, with due diligence, to the attorney 
of the adverse party, that he elects so to do.
§ 529. A defendant is not excused from verifying his answer to 
complaint, charging him with having confessed or suffered a judgment, or executed a conveyance, assignment, or other instrument, or
transferred or delivered money, or personal property, with intent to 
hmder, delay, or defraud his creditors; or with being a. party or privy 
to such a transaction by another person, with like intent towards the
creditors of that person; or with any fraud whatever, affecting a right
or the property of another. 
§ 530. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it
is sufficient to designate the statute by its chapter, year of passage and title, or in some other manner with convenient certainty, without settin_g forth any of the contents thereof. 
§ 531. It is not necessary for a party to set forth, in a pleading, thet;ccounc
items of an account therein alleged; but in that case, he must deliver toifc~ed.
the adverse party, within ten days after a written demand thereof, a
copy of the account, which, if the pleading is verified, must be verified.
by his affidavit, to the effect, that he believes it to be true; or, if the:
facte are within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney for
the party, or the party is not within the county where the attorney
resides, or capable of making the affidavit, by the affidavit of the agent
or attorney. If be feiJs 89 tp dQ, he,~,pr.eclwied ~.giving.erldence 
oC the eccourt The court, or a judge authorized to make an order in
the action, may direct the party to deliver a further account, where the
one delivered is defective. The court may, in any case, direct a bill
of the particulars of the claim of either party to be delivered to the·
ad verse party. · 
§ 532. In pleading a judgment, or other determination, of a court
or officer of special jurisdiction, it is not necessary to state the facts
conferring jurisdiction ; but the judgment or determination may be 
stated to have been duly tpven or made. If that allegation is controverted, the party pleadmg must, on the trial, establish the facts
zonferrlng jurisdiction. 
§ 533. ln pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a
contract, it is not necessary to state the facts constituting performance; 
but the party may state, generally, that he, or the person whom he
represents, duly performed an the conditions on his part. If that a11e- 
ga.tion is controverted, he must, on the trial, establish performance.
§ 584. Where a cause of action, defense, or counterclaim, is founded 
upon an instrument for the payment of money only, the party may set
forth a copy of the instrument, and state that there is due to him
thereon, from the adverse party, a specified sum, which he claims. 
Buell an allegation is equivalent to setting forth the instrument, according to its legal effect. 
{}9 
§ 585. It is not necessary, in an action for, libel or slander, to state,
in the complaint, any extrinsic fact, for the purpose of showing the 
application to the plaintifff, of the defamatory matter; but the plain­
tiff may state, general1y, that it was published or spoken concerning
him; and, if that a~ation is controverted, the plaintifff must estab­
lish it on the trial. (Lo. such an action, the defendant may prove miti­
gating circumstances, notwithstanding that he has pleaded or attempted 
§ 586. In an action to recover damages for the breach of a promise
marry, or for a personal injury, or an injury to property, the defend­ 
to prove a justificatioti) 
nt may prove, at the trial, facts, not amountin~ to a total defense,
ending to mitigate or otherwise reduce the plaintifff's damages, if they 
e set forth in the answer, either with or without one or more defenses
the entire cause of action. A defendant, in default for want of an 
tanswer, may, upon a reference or inquiry to ascertain the amount of
,the plaintifff's damages, prove facts of that description. 
§ 537. If a demurrer, answer, or reply is frivolous, the party
prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice to the adverse party, of not 
less than five days, may apply to the court or to a judge of the court
for judgment thereupon, and judgment may be given accordingly. If
the application is denied, an appeal cannot be taken from the deter­
mination, and the denial of the application does not prejudice any of
the subsequent proceedings of either party. Costs, as upon a motion,
may be awarded upon an application pursuant to this section. 
§ 539. A variance, between an allegation in a pleading and the
roof, is not material, unless it has actually misled the adverse party 
§ 538. A sham answer or a. sham defense ma.y be stricken out by the
court, upon motion, and upon such terms as the court deems just. 
obis prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense, upon the merits.
f a party insists that he has been misled, that fact, and the particu­ 
ars in which he has been misled, must be proved to the satisfaction of
he court. Thereupon the court may, in its discretion, order the plead- 
ing to be amended, upon .such terms as it deems just.
540. Where the variance is not material, as prescribed in the last section, the court ma.y direct the fact to be found according to the evi­
dence, or may order an iJµme9ja.i_e__J).mend~!!t, without costs. 
§ 541. Where, however:1nea.Tiegatfonto ~.wnTch the proof is directed,
is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire
scope and meaning, it is not a case of variance, within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
§ 542. Within twenty days after a pleading, or the answer or de- 
murrer thereto, is served, or at a.uy time before the/eriod for answer­
ing it expires, the pleading may be once amende by the party, of
course, without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already
bad. But if it is made to appear to the court, that the pleading was
amended for the purpose of delay, and that the adverse party will 
thereby lose the benefit of a term, for which the cause is or may be 
noticed, the amended pleading may be stricken out, or the pleading
may be restored to its original form, and such terms imposed as the
court deems just. 
§ 543. Where a pleading is amended, as prescribed in the last sec­
tion, a copy thereof must be served upon the attorney for the adverse
party. A failure to demur to, or answer the amended pleading, within
twenty days thereafter, has the same effect as a like failure to demur 
to, or answer the original pleading. 
lOO 
§ 544. Upon the application of either party, the court may, and, in
a proper case, must, upon such terms as are just, permit him to make 
a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging material facts
which occurred after his former pleading, or of which he was ignorant
when it was made; including the judgment or decree of a competent
court, rendered after the commencement of the action, determining the
matters in controversy, or a part thereof. The party may apply for
leave to make a supplemental pleading, either in addition to, or in place
of, the former plea.ding. In the former event, if the application is
granted, a provisional remedy, or other proceeding already taken in
the action is not affected by the supplemental pleading; but the right
of the adverse party to have it vacated or set aside, depends upon the
ease presented by the original and supplemental plea.dings. 
§ 545. Irrelevant, redundant, or scandalous matter contained in ~Motion 
pleading, may be stricken out upon the motion of a person aggrieve
thereby. Where scandalous mat.ter is thus stricken out, the attorney, 
whose name is subscribed to the pleading, may be directed to pay th
costs of the motion, and his failure to pay them may be punished as a
oontempt of the court. 
§ 546. Where one or more denials or allegations,contained in a pleading are 80 indefinite or uncertain that the precise meaning or application 
thereof, is not apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made
definite and certain by amendment. 
CHAPTER VII. 
GENERAL PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN AN ACTION. 
TITLE 1.-AlmEBT, PBNDING THB ACTION, AND PROCBBDINGS THERE,
UPON. 
TITLE 11.-INJUNCTION. 
TITLE 111.-ATTA.CHMENT OP PROPBRTY. 
TITLE IV.-OrHER PROVISIONAL RBKEDIF.8; SBNBRA.L A.ND KISCltt.LA.•
l'iBOUB PROVIBIONS. 
TITLE I. 
Arr63t pending ths action, and proceeding, thertJUpon •
.ArnOLB 1. Cases where an order of arrest may be granted, and persons liable 
. to arrest.
2. Granting. executing, and vacating or modifying the order of arrest.
S. Discharging the defendant upon bail or deposit; justification of the 
bail and disposition of the deposit. 
4. Charging and discharging bail. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
CilBS WllBllB il OJmmt OP .AllRBST XA. Y BB OBANTBD, .. llfD PBB801'8 LIA.BLB TO AllBBST. 
SBorio• 548. No person to be arrested in civil proceedings, without an exprees
statutory provision. 
649. W!ien the right to arrest depends upon the nature of the action.
550. When the right to arrest depends partly upon extrinsic facts.
651, Order, when and where granted; when of right, and when discre- 
tionary.
G5i. Foreign judgment not to affect right to a.rrest. 
658. Women not to be arrested, except, etc. 
554. Idiot, lunatic, or infant under fourteen, not to be a.rrested. Discharge.
655. Persons sued in a representative capacity, not to be arrested. 
§ 548. A person shall not be arrested in a civil action, or special
proceeding, except as prescribed by statute. The writ of ne exeat is
hereby abolished. 
§ 549. A defendant may be arrested in an action, as prescribed in
this title, where the action is brought for eith.er of the following causes : 
1. To recover a fine or penalty.
2. To recover dam~es for a personal injury; an injury to property, 
including the wron ul taking, detention, or conversion of personal
property ; breach o a promise to marry ; misconduct or neglect in
office, or in a professional employment; fraud; or deceit. But this subdivision does not apply to a claim for damages in an action to
recover a chattel. 
S. To recover money, funds, credits, or property, held or owned by
the State, or held or owned, officially or otherwise, for or in behalf of
a public or governmental interest, by a municipal or other public cor­
poration, board, officer, custodian, agency, or agent, of the State, or of
a city, county, town, village, or other division, subdivision, department,
or portion of the State, which the defendant has, without right,
obtained, received, converted, or disposed of; or to recover damages
for so obtaining, receiving, paying, converting, or disposing of the same. 
4. In an action upon contract, express or implied, other than a
promise to marry, where it is alleged in the complaint that the defend­ 
ant was guilty of a fraud in contracting or incurring the liability.
lO'J 
Where such an allegation is ma.de, the plaintifff' cannot recover unless
be proves the fraud ; and a judgment for the defendant is not a bar to( 
a new action to recover upon the contract only.
§ 550. A defendant may also be arrested as prescribed in this title, 
in either of the following cases : 
1. In an action to recover a chattel, when the chattel, or a part there­
of, has been concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that it cannot be
f'ound or taken by the sheriff', and with intent that it should not be so 
found or taken, or to deprive the plaintifff of the benefit thereof.
2. In an action upon contract, express or implied, other than a 
promise to marry, where the defendant has, since the making of the
contract, or in contemplation of making the same, removed or disposed
of his property, with intent to defraud his creditors, or is about to
remQVe or dispose of the same, with like intent. 
8. In an action to recover for money received, or to recover property, 
or damages for the conversion or misapplication of property, where the
money was received, or the property was embezzled, or fraudulently
misapplied, by a public officer, or by an attorney, solicitor or counselor,
or by an officer or agent of a corporation or banking association, in
the. course of his employment, or by a factor, ~ent, broker or other
person in a fiduciary capacity. But this subdivlalon does not apply 
to an action to recover a chattel.
4. In an action wherein the judgment demanded requires the per­ 
formance of an act, the neglect or refusal to perform which would be 
punishable by the court as a contempt, where the defendant is not a
resident of the State, or, being a resident, is about to depart there­
from, by reason of which non-residence or departure there is danger
that a. jud8'!llent or an order requiring the perfonnance of the act will
be rendered ineffectual. 
§ 551. In a case specified in subdivision fourth of the last section, the
order of arrest can be granted only by the court; is always in its discretion; and may be granted or served, either before or after final
judgment, unless an appeal from the judgment is pending, upon which
security has been given, sufficient to stay the execution thereof. In
either of the other cases specified in the last two sections, the order
cannot be served after final judgment ; but it may be granted, where
a proper case therefore is _presented, at any time before final judgment. 
§ 552. The recovery of judgment in a court, not of the State, for the
same ca.use of action; or, where the action is founded upon fraud or 
deceit, for the price or value of the property obtained thereby ; dces
n(!t affect the right of the plaintifff' to arrest the defendant, as prescribed
in this title. 
§ 553. A woman cannot be arrested, as prescribed in this title, except in a case where the order can be granted only by the court; or
where it appears that the action is to recover damages for a willful
injury to person, character or property. 
§ 554. A lunatic, an idiot or an infant under the age of fourteen 
years, if arrested, may be discharged from arrest ae a privileged person
in the discretion of the court. The application for hie discharge may
be made, in his behalf, by a relative, or by any other person whom 
the court or judge permits to represent him, for the purpose.
§ 555. A person prosecuted in a representative capacity, as heir, 
executor, administrator, legatee, devisee, next of kb,, aesignee, or
trustee, cannot be arrested, If prescribed in this title, uuept for bis 
personal act.
108 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
GIUln'ING, BXBCll'1'11'G, ilD VA.CA.TING OR KODLF'YUJG THB 0BDBR OP .AJmB81'. 
8Bo'l'Iolll' 556. Order required for a.rrest ; how granted.
657. Proof necessary to procure order.
558. When order mar be granted; effect ot com:plaint subsequently made.
659. Security, upon order of &rre!lt made by a judge,
660. Id. ; upon order of arrest granted by the court.
661. Contents of the order ; to whom directed ; when to be executed.
662. Copies of papers to be delivered to defendant; originals to be filed.·
663. Arrest; how made.
664. General provision as to privilege from a.rrest; discharge of pri\-ileged 
person.
G65. Privilege of officers of courts.
666. Defendant arrested to have twenty days to answer. 
567. When application to be made to va.ca.te order of a.rrest, etc.
568. How and to whom application must be made;oppoeingit by newpNO~ 
*569, *570. Questions of fact a.risintr on the motion.
*b71. When prior motion not to preJudiee subse9uent motion. 
572. Supersedeas, unless defendant is charged m execution, etc. 
§ 556. An order for the arrest of the defendant, except as othenme
prescribed in section five hundred and fifty-one of this act, must be 
obtained from a judge of the court in which the action is brought, or
from any county judge. 
§ 557. The order may be granted, in a case specified in section five
hundred and forty-nine of this act, where it appears by the affidavit
of the plaintifff, or any other person, that a sufficient cause of action
exists against tho defendant, as prescribed in that section. It may
be granted, in a case specified in section five hundred and fifty of this 
act, upon the like proof that a sufficient cause of action exists against
the defendant, as prescribed in that section, and of the other matters,
extrinsic to the cause of action, specified in that section. The affi.
davit may also contain any statement, tending to determine the
amount of bail to be required. · 
§ 558. Subject to the provisions of the last preceding article, the
order may be granted at any time, after the commencement of the
action. It may also be granted, to accompany the summons. But at 
any time after the filing or service of the complaint, the order of a.rrest
must be vacated on motion, if the complaint fails to set forth a suffi- 
cient cause of action, as required by the last section.
§ 559. Except where the action is brought for a cause specified in subdivision third of section five hundred and forty-nine of this act, or
in a case where it is specially prescribed by law that security may be 
dispensed with, or the security to be given is specially regulated by
law, the judge, before he grants the order, must require a written un­
dertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with two sufficient sureties, to
the effect that, if the defendant recovers judgment, or if it is finally
decided that the plaintifff was not entitled to the order of arrest, the
plaintifff will pay all costs which may be awarded to the defendant,
and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not
exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which must be at
least equal to one-tenth of the amount of bail required by the order,
and not less than two hundred and fifty dollars. 
§ 560. Where the order can be granted only by the court, an under­
taking on the part of the plaintifff may be dispensed with. If it is re- 
quired, its form, and the security to be given thereupon, must be
h 
ibe
sue as the court prescn s. 
§ 561. The order must be subscribed by the plaintifff's attorney, and
except where it is granted by the court, by the judge. It may be 
directed, either to the sheriff of a particular county, or, generally, to~;;:~~~ 
the sheriff' of any county. It must require the sheriff' forthwith to 
arrest the defendant, if he is found within his county; to hold him to
bail in a specified sum; and to return the order, with his proceedings
thereunder, as prescribed by law. The plaintifff's attorney may, at his
option, by an indorsement upon the order, or, where it was granted
by the court, upon the copy thereof, delivered to the sheriff, fix a
time within which the defendant must be arrested. In that case, he
cannot be arrested afterwards under the same order. 
§ 562. The order of arrest, or, where it was granted by the court,
a certified copy thereof, subscribed by the plaintifff's attorney; and,
in either case, the papers upon which the order was ~anted, with 
the undertaking, if any; must be delivered to the sheriff', who, upon
arresting the defendant, must deliver to him a copy thereof. The 
papers, upon which the order was granted, with the undertaking, if
any, must be filed, with the order of arrest, or a certified copy thereof, at the time prescribed for filing the same, in section five hundred
and ninety or this act. 
§ 563. The sheriff' must execute the order by arresting the defendant, if he is found within his county, and keeping him in custody,
until discharged by law. • 
§ 564. This title does not abridge or affect a privilege from arrest given
by law, or a right of action for a breach thereof. A privile~ed person
is entitled to be discharged from arrest, where other provision is not
made therefore by law, by the court, or a judge thereof; or by the
county judge of the county, or a judge of a superior city court of the city~~:~
where the arrest was made. The order must be made, upon proof by
affidavit, of the fR.cts entitling the applicant to the discharge; and the
arrest and discharge are not a bar to a new arrest, after the privilege has
ceased. The court or judge may make the order without notice, or may
require notice to be given to the sheriff, or to the plaintifff, or to both, 
§ 565. An officer of a court of record, appointed or elected pursuant 
to law, is privileged from arrest, during the actual sitting, which he ia
required to attend, of a term of the court of which he is an officer, and
no longer; but an attorney or counsellor is not thus privileged, unless
be is employed in a cause, to be heard at that term. · 
§ 566. Excedit where an order of arrest can be granted only by the
court, a defen ant, arrested before answer, has twenty days after the
arrest, in wh!ch to answer the complaint; and judgment must be
stayed accordmgly. 
§ 567. Except where an order of arrest can be granted only by the
court, a defendant, arrested as prescribed in this title, may, at any 
time before final judgment, or, if he was arrested within twenty days
before final judgment, at any time within twenty days after the arrest, 
apply to vacate the order of arrest; or to rednce the amount of bail ; 
or to increase the security given by the plaintifff; or for one or more of
those forms of relief, together, or in the alternative. In a case where
the order of arrest can be granted 011ly by the court, a like application
may be made, at any time within twenty days after the arrest ; and an
application to increase the security given by the plaintifff, may be made 
at any time before final judgment. 
§ 568. An application, specified in the last section, may be founded
only upon the papers upon which the order was granted ; in which 
case, it must be made to the court, or, if the order was granted by a
judge out of court, to the same judge, in court or out of court, and
with or without notice, as be deems proper, and the application must 
be heard upon those papers only. Or it may be founded upon proof,
by affidavit, on the part of the defendant ; in which case, it must be 
made to the court, or, if the order was granted by a judge, out of court, 
to any judge of the court, upon notice ; and it may be opposed by new
proof, by a.ffidavit, on the part of the plaintifff, tending to sustain any
ground of arrest recited in the order, and no other, unless the defend­
ant relies upon a discharge in bankruptcy, or upon a discharge or ex­
oneration, granted in insolvent proceedings; in which case, file plain­
tiff may show any matter in avoidance thereof, which he might show
upon the trial. 
§ 572. Except in a case where an order of arrest can be granted only
by the court, if the defendant ie in actual custody, by virtue of an
order of arrest in the action, and the plaintifff neglects to enter judg­
ment in the action, within one month after it is in his power to do so;
or neglects to issue execution against the person of the defendant,
within three months after the entry of judgment; the defendant must,
on his application, made upon notice to the plaintifff, be discharged
from custody, by the court in which the action was commenced, or by
a judge thereof, within the county where the defendant is in custody ;
unless reasonable cause is shown why the application should not be
granted. A defendant discharged aA prescribed in this section shall
not be arrested upon an execution issued upon a judgment in the
action. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
DIBOllillGllfG Tllll DBFD»Alft' UPON BAIL OB DBPOSJT; Jum11c..&.TI011 OI' TBB B~ 
ill> DIBP081TIOJr 01' TBB l>BPOSIT. 
8Bo'l'lo• 678. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit. 
574. When defenda.nt may elect to give bail, etc., or bond for liberties. 
675. Undertaking of the bail; what to contain.
676. Examination of persons offered as bail.
677. Filing, etc., of papers; plaintifff's acceptance or rejection of b&iL
578. Notice of jUBtifie&tion; new undertaking, if other bail is given.
679. Qualifications or bail, .
680. Justification or bail.
581. Allowance of bail.
582. Deposit of money with sheriff'.
583. Payment of deposit into court by sheriff'.
684. SubetitutinJ bail for deposit.
585. How deposit disposed of.
586. When deposit to be paid to a third person.
687. Sheriff, when liable as bail; bis discharge from liability.
688. Proceedings on judgment against sheriff.
589. Bail liable to sheriff.
590. Filing papers if bail not given. 
§ 578. The defendant, at any time before he is in contempt, where
the order can be granted only by the court, or, in any other case, a.t 
any time before execution against his person, must be discharged from
arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon depositing the sum specified in 
the order of arrest. The defendant may give bail, or make the deposit, 
immediately upon his arrest, at any hour of the day or night; and bef
must have reasonable opportunity to see* for and to procure bail, beforel 
being committed to jail.
§ 574. Where the defendant is actually confined in the jail, by virtue 
of an order of arrest, and final or interlocutory judgment has been!":!:!~~
rendered against him in the action, but an execution against his person 
has not been issued, he may elect, either to give a bond for the liberties
of the jail, or to give bail or make a deposit, as prescribed in this article.
§ 575. The defendant may give bail, by delivering to the sheriff a. 
written undertaking, in the sum specified in the order of arrest, execnted by two or more sufficient bail, stating their places of residence
and occupations, to the following effect: 
1. If the order of arrest could be granted only by the court, that the
defendant will obey the direction of court, or of an appellate court,
contained in an order or a judgment, requiring him to perform the act
specified in the order; or, in default of his so doing, that he will, at all
times, render himself amenable to proceedings to punish him for the 
omission.
2. If the action is to recover a chattel, that the defendant will 
deliver it to the plaintifff, if delivery thereof is adjudged in the action,
and will pay any sum recovered against him in the action. 
3. In any other case, that the defendant will, at all times, render
himself amenable to any mandate, which may be issued to enforce a
flnal judgment against him in the action. 
§ 576. 1t is not necessary that the undertaking should be approved,
or accompanied with an affidavit of justification of the bail. But
the officer, taking the acknowledgment of the undertaking, must, if~
the sheriff so requires, examine under oath, to a reasonable extent, the
persons offering to become bail, concerning their property and their
circumstances. The examination must be reduced to writing, sub
scribed by the bail, and annexed to the undertaking. 
§ 577. Within three days aft.er bail is given, the sheriff must deliver 
to the plaintifff's attorney copies, certified by him, of the order of
arrest, retum and undertaking. The plaintifff's attorney, within ten 
dayd thereafter, must serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not
accept the bail ; otherwise he is deemed to have accepted them, and
the sheriff is exonerated from liability. 
§ 578. Within ten days after the receipt of the notice, the sheriff or
the defendant may serve upon the plaintifff's attorney, notice of the
justification of the same or other bail, specifying the place of residence
and occupation of each of the latter, before a judge of the court, or a 
county judge, at a. specified time and place; the time to be not less
than five nor more than ten days thereafter, and the place to be within
the county where one of the bail resides, or where the defendant was 
arrested. If other bail are given, a. new undertaking must be executed,
as _prescribed in section five hundred and seventy-five of this act. 
§ 579. The qualifications of bail are as follows: ·
1. Each of them must be a resident of, and a householder or free- 
holder within the State.
2. Each of them must be worth the sum specified in the order ol 
arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the judge,
on justification, may allow more than two bail to justify, severally, in 
107 
sums less than that specified in the order, if the whole j118tifl.cation is
equivalent to that of two sufficient bail . 
§ 580. For the purpose ·of justification, each of the bail must attend
before the judge, at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and 
be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff, touching his suffi­
ciency, in such manner as the judge, in his discretion, thinks proper.
The judge may, in his discretion, adjourn the examination from day
to day, until it is completed; but such an adjonmment must always
be to the next judicial day, unless by consent of parties. If required
by the plaintifff's attorney, the examination must be reduced to writ­
ing, and subscribed by the bail. 
§ 581. If the judge finds the bail sufficient, he must annex the
examination to the undertaking, indorse bis allowance thereon, and 
cause them to be filed with the clerk. The sheriff is thereupon exon­
erated from liability. 
§ 582. The defendant may, instead or giving bail, deposit with the
sheriff the sum specified in the order. "I'he sheriff must thereupon 
give the defendant a certificate of the deposit, and discharge him from
custody. 
§ 583. The sheriff must, within four days after the deposit, pay it
into court. He must take, from the officer receiving it, two certificates 
of the payment, one <,f which he mast deliver to the plaintifff, and the
other to the defendant. For a default in makin~ the payment, the
official bond of the sheriff may be prosecuted, as m any other case of
delinquency. 
§ 584. If money is deposited, as prescribed in the last two sections,
bail may be given, and may justify upon notice, at any time before 
the expiration of the right to be discharged on bail. Thereupon the
jjudge, before whom the justification is had, must direct, in the order
of allowance, that the money deposited be refunded to the defendant,
or his representative, and it must be refunded accordingly. 
§ 585. If money deposited is not refunded, as prescribed in the last section, it is, in a case where the order of arrest could be granted Qnly 
by the court, subject to the direction of the court, as justice requires,
before and after the judgment. In any other case, if it remains on
deposit, when final judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, it must be 
applied, under the direction of the court, in satisfaction of the judg­
ment; and the surplus, if any, must be refunded to the defendant, or
bis representative. If the final judgment is for the defendant, or the
action abates, or is discontinued, the sum deposited, and remaining
unapplied, must be refunded to the defendant or his representative. 
§ 686. At any time before the deposit is paid into court, the defend­
ant may deliver to the sheriff a written direction, to pay it to a third 
person, therein specified, in the event that the defendant becomes
entitled to a return thereof, but without expressing any other eontin- 
~ncy. The direction must be acknowledged or proved, and certified,
m like manner as a deed to be recorded; and the sheriff must deliver
it to the officer who receives the deposit, who must note the substance
thereof, with the entries of the deposit, in bis books, and upan the two
certificates of payment into court. The money thus deposited is
deemed the property of the third person, subject to the plaintifff's
interest therein, and subject to the rights of a creditor of the defend­
ant, where the direction was given for the purpose of hindering,
delaying, or defrauding creditors. The money, or the residue thereof,
must be paid to the third person, where, by the provisions or the la.st 
two sections, it is required to be refunded to the defendant, or bis
representative. 
§ 587. If, after the defendant is arrested, he escapes or is rescued,lsherUr
or the bail, if any, given by him, do not justify, when they are not~:e:i 
accepted, or if the sheriff' fails to pay the deposit into court as required;his
by section five hundred and eight.y-three of this act, the sheriff is~:o~S::.. 
liable as bail. But the sheriff' may, except in an action to recover afbility. 
chattel, discharge himself from liability, by the giving and justifica-1
tion of bail, as follows : 
1. If the case is one where the order could be granted onlf by thei 
court, at any time before the court directs the performance o the ac~
specified in the order. 
2. In any other case, at any time before an execution is issued
against the person of the defendant, upon a judgment in the action .. 
§ 588. If judgment is recovered atgainst the sheriff, upon bis liability as bail, and an execution thereon is returned wholly or partly
unsatisfied, the official bond of the sheriff may be prosecuted, as in 
any other case of delinquency. 
§ 589. The bail taken upon the arrest, unless they justify, or other
bail are given and justify, are liable to the sheriff for all damages'°
which he sustains by reason of the omission. 
§ 590. Within ten days after the defendant is arrested if he does
not give bail, or if he gives bail, within ten days after the just.iii.cation
of th:e bail, the sheriff must file with the clerk the order of arrest, or,
where it was granted by the court, the certified copy thereof delivered 
to him, with bis return thereupon indorsed, the papers upon which
the order of arrest was granted, and the undertaking given on the
part of the plaintifff. Where an order of arrest, directing the arrest
of two or more defendants, has been executed as to one or more, but
not as to all of them, the sheriff may file a copy of the order of arrest, 
instead of the original. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
CB.lllGIKG U1> DIBCRARGilfG BAIL. 
8&.""'l'Ioll' 591. When defendant ma.y be surrendered.
592. How sun-ender to be made ; exoneration of bail thereupon. 
593. Bail may an-est defendant.
594. VoluntaJ'y surrender ; exoneration of bail thereupon. 
595. Ri(hts, ete.s of eheriJf who is liable as bail.
696. Bail ; bow proceeded against.
597. Certain executions necessary before action against bail.
598. Duty of sheriff' on such executions.
699. Defences in action against bail.
600. Relief of bail where principal is imprisoned on criminal charge.
601. Bail exonerared by death, etc. 
§ 591. Except in an action to recover a chattel, the bail may surrender
the defendant in their own exoneration, or the defendant may sur- 
render himself in exoneration of the bail, before the expiration of the 
time to answer, in an action against them. The surrender must be
made to the sheriff of the county, where the defendant was arrested. 
§ 592. Where the bail surrender the defendant, the surrender must
be made in the following manner: 
1. They must take the defendant to the sheriff', and require him, in
writing, to take the defendant into his custody. 
2. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail must be delivered 
u.o 
to the sheriff', who must detain the defendant in his custody thereupon,
as upon the original mandate, and must, by a certificate in writing, 
acknowledge the surrender. Upon the application of the bail, made
upon notice to the plaintifff's attorney, and upon production of the
sheriff's certificate and a copy of the undertaking, a judge of the court,
or the county judge of the county where the action is triable, may make
au order, directing that the bail be exonerated. On filing the order
and the papers used on the application therefore, the bail are exonerated 
aecordingly. 
§ 593. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, ai
any place or at any time before they are finally charged, may them­ 
selves arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified
copy of the undertaking, may empower another person to do so ; and
one or more of the bail may thlll\ arrest and surrender the defendant,
although the others do not join with him or them, for that purpose. 
§ 594. Where the defendant surrenders himself in exoneration of hie
bail, he must present himself to the sheriff', and require the sheriff', in 
writing, to take him into custody, in exoneration of his bail. The
sheriff' must detain him accordingly, as prescribed in subdivision 
second of section five hundred and ninety-two of this act ; and, if
requested by the bail, at any time ai'ter the surrender, the sheriff must,
by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender. An order for
the exoneration of the bail may be procured, as prescribed in section
five hundred and ninety-two of this act. 
§ 595. Where the sheriff' is liable as bail, be has all the rights and
privileges, and is subject to all the duties and liabilities of bail; and
bail given by him, in order to discharge himself from liability, must 
be regarded as the bail of the defendant in the action. But this sec­
tion does not apply to an action to recover a chattel ; or to a case where
a defense arises to an action against the bail, in consequence of an act
or omission of the sheriff. 
§ 596. In case of faiJure to comply with the undertaking, the bail
may be proceeded against by action, and not otherwise. 
§ 597. An action may be brought, as prescribed in the last section,
in a case where the order of arrest could be granted only by the court, 
at any time after the bail have failed to comply with t.heir undertaking •
Where the undertaking was given in an action to recover a chattel, an
action may be brought thereupon, at any time after the retum, wholly
or partly unsatisfied, or an execution for the delivery of the possession
of the chattel, with respect . to which the order of arrest was granted.
In any other case, an action cannot be brought, as prescribed in the
last section, until the following requisites have been complied with : 
1. An execution, against the property of the defendant, must have
been i8sued to the sheriff of the county in which he was arrested, and
retumed by that sheriff', wholly or partly unsatisfied. 
2. An execution, against the person of the defendant, must have
been issued to the same sheriff, and by him returned, not less than
fifteen days after its receipt, to the effect that the defendant could not
be found within his county. 
§ 598. The sheriff must diligently endeavor to enforce an execution
issued and delivered to him, as prescribed in the last section, notwith­
standing any direction he may receive Crom the plaintifff' or his attorney, 
§ 599. In an action against bail, it is a defense, that an execution.
against the property, or against the person, of the defendant in the orig- 
inal action, was not issued, as prescribed in section five hundred and 
ninety-seven of this act; or that it was not issued in sufficient time to 
enable the sheriff' to enforce it; or that a direction was given, or other
fraudulent or collusive means were used, by the plaintifff or bis attorney,
to prevent the service thereof. 
§ 600. If the defendant in the ori~nal action, after his discharge 
OJ?<>~ bail, is imprisoned, e~tb~r within ~r ~itbout the State, upon. a
criminal charge, or a conviction of a criminal offense, the court, m 
which an action against the bail is pending, ma_y, before the expiration
of the time to answer, and upon notice to the adverse party, make such 
an order for the relief of the bail, as justice requires.
§ 601. Except in an action to recover a chattel, the bail must be 
exonerated where either of the following events occurs, before the expiration of the time to answer in an action against them : 
1. The death of the original defendant.
2. His legal dischar~e from the obligation to render himself amen­ 
able to the process, direction, or proceedings, with respect to which
the undertaking of the bail was made. 
8. His surrender to the sheriff" of the county where he was arrested, 
aa prescribed in this article.
Where either event occurs, after the commencement of the action 
against the bail, the court may, in its discretion, impose the payment 
of the plaintifff's costs and expenses, incurred after the return of the
execution against the person, as a condition of allowing the exonera­
ti.on. And the court may, by an order, made upon notice to the adverse
p'lrty, grant such further time as it deems just, after answer, for the
surrender of the original defendant. In that case, his surrender, within
the time so granted, has the same effect, as if it had been made before 
answer. 
ARTICLE 1. Ca.aee where an injunction may be grant.ed ; granting and service of an
injunction order. 
i. Security.
8. Vacating or modifying an injunction order. 
C.&IIU WJDIBJI il llflUlfCTIOJJ KAT BB GRJ.lM'BD; GBJ.1'Tl1'G llD 8BBvtCB 01' il
ilf.1U1'CTIOlf 0RDBB, 
89orJu• 602 Writ of injunction abolished, and order aubstituted.
603. Injunction, when the right thereto depends upon the nature of the 
action. 
Injunction.
TITLE II. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
6()4. Id.; when the right thereto depends upon extrinsic facts.
605. Restrictions upon injunctions to restrain State offlcere.
606. By whom injunction granted in other caeee.
607. Proof necessary to procure injunction.
608. At what tim~ the order may be granted. 
609. When notice required or not required. Injunction pending an appll•
cation. 
110. Order most recite grounds; eervice of order. 
·J 
§ 602. The writ of injunction has been abolished. A temporary in­
junction may be granted by order, as prescribed in this article. 
§ 603. Where it appears, from the complaint, that the plaintifff'
demands, and is enfiled to a judgment against the defendant,
restraining the commission or continuance of an act. the commission 
or continuance of which, during the pendency of the action, would
produce injury to the plaintifff, an injunction order may be granted to 
restrain it. The case, provided for in this section, is described in this
act, as a case where the right to an injunction depends upon the nature 
of the action.
§ 604. In either of the following cases, an injunction order may also 
be granted in an action :
1. Where it appears, by affidavit, that the defendant, during the 
pendency of the action, is doing, or procuring, or suffering to be done,
or threatens, or is about to do, or to procure, or suffer to be done, an
act, in violation of the plaintifff's rights, respecting the subject of the
action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, an injunction
order may be granted to restrain him therefrom. 
2. Where it appears, by affidavit, that the defendant, during the
pendeney of the action, threatens, or is about to remove, or to dispose
of his property, with intent to defraud the plaintifff, an injunction order
may be granted, to restrain the removal or disposition. 
§ 605. Where a duty is imposed by statute upon a State officer, 01 
board of State officers, an injunction order to restrain him or them, or
a person employed by him or them, from the performance of that duty, 
or to prevent the execution of the statute, shall not be granted, except
by the supreme court, at a general term thereof, sitting in the depart­
ment in which the officer or board is located, or the duty is required to
be performed ; and upon notice of the application therefore to the officer,
board, or other person to be restrained. 
§ 606. Except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, av
injunction order may be granted by the court in which the action is
brought, or by a judge thereof, or by any county judge; and where it 
is granted by a judge, it may be enforced as the order of the court. 
§ 607. The order may be granted, where it appears to the court or
judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or any other person, that suffi­ 
cient grounds exist therefore.
§ 608. The order may be granted to accompany the summons, or at 
any time after the commencement of the action, and before final jud­
ment. 
§ 609. The order may be granted, upon or without notice in the dis­
retion of the court or judge, unless the defendant has answered; in 
hich case, it can be granted only upon notice, or an order to show
cause. Where an application for an injunction is made upon notice,
or an order to show cause, either before or after answer, the court or
[udge may enjoin the defendant, until the hearing and decision of the 
pplication. 
§ 610. The injunction order must briefly recite the grounds for the 
injunction. Where it is granted by the court, it must be served by 
delivering a certified copy thereof; where it is granted by a judge, it
must be served by showing the original order, and delivering a copy
thereof. Service of the order, upon a corporation, may be made as
prescribed in this act, for making personal service of a summons upon
a corporation. (gopies of the papers, upon which the order was granted,
must be delivered with the copy of the orde~ 
TITLE X
8BO'rI01' 611. Security, on i,taying proceedings in &n action, before trial.
612. Id.; alter trial, and before judgment.
613. Id.; after judgment.
614. Money deposited may be paid over. 
§ 611. An injunction order shall not be jlranted, to stay the trial of
an action, in which the complaint demands judgment for a sum of
money only, after issue has been joined therein, unless the party apply- 
ing therefore gives au undert.akin~ to the party enjoined, with sufficient
anreties, to the effect, that he will pay to the party enjoined. or his
represeutative, all damages and costs, which may be recovered by him
in the action stayed by the injunction, not exceeding a sum, specified
in the undertaking; and, also, all damages and costs that may be 
awarded to him, in the action in which the injunction order is granted. 
§ 612. An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay proceediugs
in an action specified in the last section, after verdict, report., or decision, and before final judgment. thereupon, unless a sum of money,
sufficleut to cover the sum awarded by the verdict, report, or decision,
and the costs of U .. e action, is first paid, by the party applying for the
Injunction into tl.e court, i11 which his action is commenced, or au un­
dertaking for the payment thereof, with interest, is given, as prescribed
in this article. 
§ 613. An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay proceedings
upon a judgment for a sum of money, unless the following requisites 
are complied with, by the party applying therefore:
1. The full amount of the judgment, including interest and costs, 
must be paid by him, into the court in which his action is commenced;
or an undertaking in lieu thereof must be given, as prescribed iu this article. 
2. He must also give an undertaking, with sufficient sureties, to pay 
to the party enjoined, all damages and costs, which may be awarded
to him by the court, in the action in which the injunction order is
granted; not exceeding a sum, specified in the undertaking. 
§ 614. Money paid into court, as prescribed in the last two sections,
may be paid over, by the direction or the court, to the party whose pro- 
ceedings are st.ayed, npon his giving an undertaking to the people of
the Sr.ate, with sufficient sureties, in a sum fixed by the court, to pay 
the money and interest, or any part thereof, as directed in the order or
judgment of the court. 
§ 615. Where money so paid mto court has oeen paid over to the
pa.rty whoae proceedings are stayed, if the fiuu.l decision of the act.ion, 
in which the injnnction order is granted, is against the party obtaining
it, the court must give such directions, as justice requires, with respect
to cancelling the nndertakiug given by the succeesful part.y; making
perpetual the injunction staying collection of the judgment; and re­
quiring the judgment to be discharged of record. 
§ 616. An injunction order shall not be granted, to stay proceedings
in au action of ejectment, or for dower, after verdict, report or decision, 
unless the party applying therefore gives an undertaking. with sufficient
sareties, to pay to the party enjoined, or his representative, all damages 
and costs, not exceeding a sum specified in the undertaking, which
may be awarded to him, in the action wherein the injunction was
granted. 
§ 617. Where an undertaking is given, as prescribed in the last section, the damages to be paid, upon the vacating of the injunction order, 
or the decision of the action against the party obtaining it, include, not
only the reasonable rents and profits of the real property, recovered by
the verdict, report, or decision, but all waste committed upon the prop­
erty, after the granting of the injunction. 
§ 618. In a case, where money is required by the foregoing sections
lof this article, to be paid into court, the court or judge may dispense 
kvit,h the payment, and may require the party to give, in lieu thereof,
~n undertaking, wit.h two or more sureties, to pay the sum specified,
~ith Interest, as directed by the court. If an undertaking is required, 
ln addition to the deposit, both undertakings may be contained in the
same instrument, at the election of the party applying for the iujnnct.ion. 
§ 619. The foregoing sections of this article do not apply to a case,
where an injunction order is applied for, to stay proceedings in another
action, on the ground that a judgment, verdict, report, or decision
therein was obtained by actual fraud. In that case, the court or judge
granting the injunction order may dispense with the deposit of money,
or the execution of an undertakiug, except as prescribed in the next section. 
§ 620. Where special provision is not otherwise made by law for the
security to be given upon an injunction or er, the party applying
therefore must give an undertaking, executed by him or by one or more
sureties, as the court or judge directs, to the effect, that. the plaintifff
will pay to the party enjoined, such damages, not exceeding a sum,
specified in the undertaking, as he may sustain by reason of the injunc­
tion, if the court finally decides that the plaintifff was not entitled
thereto. 
§ 621. The foregoing provisions of this article do not affect any spe­
cial statutory provision, whereby security upon granting an injunction
order may be dispensed with, in a particular case, or the security to be
given in a particular case is otherwise regulated. 
§ 623. The damages, sustained by reason of an Injunction, may be 
ascertained and determined by the court, or by a referee, appointed by
the court, or by a writ of inquiry or otherwise as the court shall direct;
and the decision of the court thereupon, or an order confirming the
report of the referee, is conclusive, as to the amount of those damages,
upon all the persons who have executed the undertakiu~, unless it is
reversed upon appeal. The court may in its discretion, direct that the
sureties have notice of the hearing, or of an appeal, and may prescribe
the time and manner of giving them notice. · 
§ 624. Where the defendant enjoined was an officer of a corporation,
or joint stock association, or a bailee, agent trustee, or other represent- 
ative of another, and the damages sustained by him, are less than the
sum specified in the undertaking, the court or the referee may also 
separately ascertain and determine the damages sustained, by reason
of the injunction, by the corporation, association, or person, whom the
defendant represents, to an amount not exceeding the surplus of the
sum specified in the undertaking ; and those damages may be recovered in a separate action, brought as prescribed in the next section. 
§ 625. Where the damages have been ascertained by the decision ofctton 
the court, or the confirmation of a referee's report, as prescribed in the
last two sections, any person, entitled to the benefit of an undertaking,
executed pursuant to the provisions of this title, may bring an actio
thereon, without further leave of the court. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
VAOJ.TllfG OR JIODlll'YD'G Alf llJUNOTIOlf Olm&. 
8ac'l"1olf 626. Application to. vaca.te or modify, without notice.
627. Id. ; upon notice.
628. When prior motion not to prejudice subsequent application.
629. New undertaking may be required.
630. Verified answer to have the effect only of an affidavit. 
*631. When merite of action may be litigated.
*682. When merite not to be litigated. 
*6a3. Extrinsic questions of fa.ct to be determined. .
*634. Proof upon questions of fact. 
§ 626. Where the injunction order was granted without notice, the
party enjoined may apply, upon the papers upon which it was granted,
for an order vacating or modifying the injunction order. Snch an
application may be made, without notice, to the judge who granted the
order, or who held the term of the court where it was granted; or to
the general term of the court, it cannot be made witbout notice, to
any other judge or term, unless the applicant produces proof, by affidavit, that, by reason of the absence or other disability of the judge who
granted the order, the application cannot be made to him ; and that
the applicant wi11 be exposed to great injury, by the delay required for
e.n application upon notice. The affidavit must be filed with the clerk ;
and a copy thereof, and of the order vacating or modifying the injunction order, must be served upon the plaintifff's attorney, before that
order takes effect. 
§ 627. Where the injunction order was granted without notice, or
where it was granted upon notice, with leave to apply to vacate or 
modify it, the party enjoined may apply upon notice, to the Jud~e
who granted it, or to the court, at a. term where a contested motion 1& 
the action may be heard, for an order, vacating or modifying the
injunction order. Such an application may be founded upon the papers 
upon which the injunction was granted; or upon proof, by affidavit, on
the part of the defendant: or both. Where it is founded upon proof
on the part of the defendant, it may be opposed by new proof by a.flidavit, on the part of the plaintifff, tending to sustain the injunction. 
§ 628. The granting or denial of an application, made as prescribed
in the last section, founded only upon the papers upon which the in- 
junction order was granted, does uot prejudice a subsequent application, seasonably made, founded upon proof, by affidavit, on the part of
the defendant. And the granting or denial of either application does 
not prejudice a subsequent application, seasonably made, founded upon
the failure of a conplaint, which had not been made at the time of 
the former application, to set forth a cause of action, sufficient to entitle
the plaintifff to the injunction order, upon one or more grounds, recited
therein. 
§ 629. Upon the hearing of an application, upon notice, to vacate or
modify an injunction order, the court or judge may require a new
undertaking, in the same or in a different sum, to be given by the
plaintifff, with the like sureties, and to the like effect, as upon granting
an original order. The persons executing the new undertaking become
liable thereon; as if they had executed it upon the granting of the
original order. (!!le persons who executed the original undertaking
remain liable thereon, until the new undertaking is given and approved, 
and no long~ 
§ 630. Upon the hearing of a contested application for an injunction
order, or to vacate or modify such an order, a verified answer has the
effect only of an affidavit. 
AlmCLB 1. Cases where a warrant or attachment may be granted, and proceed·
fogs upon granting the same. 
2. Executing the warrant pending the action.
3. V acatintr or modifying the warrant ; discharging the attachment. 
4. Regulations where there are two or more warrant.a against the same
defendant. 
6. Proceedings after judgment; rights of parties and duties or the sheriff',
af'ter the warrant is vacated or annulled, or the attachment dis·
charged. 
TITLE 
CADS WHBBll J. WABBJ.rr OF ATTACHMBNT MAY BB GB.llTBD; llD P800BBDJlfG8
UPON GRANTING TBB SA.HB. 
8BCl'IoN 685. In what actions a warrant or attachment may be granted.
636. What must be shown to procure the warrant. 
637. Warrant in action against public officer, etc., for peculation.
688. When and by whom the warrant may be granted. 
, 689. Affidavits to be filed.
640. SeCUTity on obtaining warrant. 
641. Contents of warrant ; to whom directed.
642. Validiiy of undertaking. 
§ 635. A warrant of attachment ap-a.inst the property of one or more
defendants in an action, may be granted upon the application of the 
plaintifff, as specified in the next session,* where the action is to re­
cover a sum of money only as damages for one or more of the fol- 
lowing causes : 
TITLE III. 
Attachment of pr<>perty. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
1. Breach of contract, express or implied, ~
m'-~ rongf ul · conversion of personal property; · 
3. Any other injury to personal property, in consequence of negli~
gence, fraud, or other wrongful act. · 
§ 636. To entitle the plaintifff to such a. warrant, be must show, by
affidavit, to the satisfaction of the judge granting the same, as follows 
1. That one of the causes of action specified in the last section exists
again.st the defendant. If the action is to recover damages for breach
ol a contract, the affidavit must show that the plaintifff is entitled to recover a sum stated therein, over and above all counterclaims known 
to him.
2. That the defendant is either a foreign corporation or not a resi­ 
dent of the State ; or, if he is a natural person and a resident of the
State, that he has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his credit­
ors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed
therein with the like intent; or, if the defendant is a natural person,
or a. domestic corporation, that he or it has removed, or is about to re­
move, property from the State, with intent to defraud his or its credit­
ors; or has assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is a.bout to aasigu, dis­
pose of, or secrete property, with the like intent. 
§ 637. A warrant of attachment, against the property of one or more,
defendants in an action, may also be granted, upon the application of:~~~~ 
the plaintifff, where the complaint demands judgment for a sum of
money only; and it appears, by affidavit, that the action is brought to 
recover money, funds, credits, or other property, held or owned by the
State, or held or owned, officially or otherwise, for or in behalf of
public governmental interest, by a municipal or other public corporation,
board, officer, custodian, agency, or agent, of the State, or of a city,
county, town, village, or other division, subdivision, department, or
portion of the State, which the defendant has, without right, obtained,
received, converted or disposed of; or in the obtaining, reception, payment, conversion, or disposition of which, without right., he has aided
or abetted ; or to recover damages for so obtaining, receiving, paying,
converting, or disposing of the same; or the aiding or abetting thereof.
In order to entitle the plaintifff to a warrant of attachment, in a case
specified in this section, he must show, by affidavit, to the satisfaction
of the judge granting it, that a sufficient. cause of action exists against
the defendant, for a sum, stated in the affidavit. 
§ 638. The warrant may be granted by a judge of the court, or by
any county judge to accompany the summons or at any time after the 
commencement of the action, and before final judgment therein. Personal service of the summons must be made upon the defendant, agains 
whose property the warrant is granted, within thirty days after th
granting thereof; or else, before the expiration of the same time, ser
vice of the summons by publication must be commenced, or service
thereof must be made without the State, pursuant to an order obte.ine
therefore, as prescribed in this act; and if publication has been, or is 
thereafter commenced, the service must be made complete, by the con­ 
tinuance thereof. 
§ 639. The plaintifff procuring the warrant must, within ten day~A11ldavt~
after the granting thereof, cause the affidavits, upon which it was"° 
granted, to be filed in the office of the clerk. 
§ 640. The judge, before granting the warrant, must require a written undertaking, on the part of the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties, to 
the effect, that if the defendant recovers judgment, or if the warrant is
vacated, the plaintifff will pay all costs, which may be awarded to the 
defendant, and all damages, which he may sustain by reason of the
attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
must be at least two hundred and fifty dollars. But this section does
not apply to a case, where the action is brought for a cause specified in section six hundred and thirty-seven of this act, or where it is specially
prescribed by law that security may be dispensed with, or where the
security to be given is specially regulated by law. 
§ 641. The warrant must be subscribed by the judge and the plain­
tiff's attorney, and must briefly recite the ground of the attachment.
It may be directed, either to the sheriff of a particular county, or, generally, to the sheriff of any county. It must require the sheriff to
attach and safely keep, so much of the property, within his county,
which the defendant has, or which be may have, at any time before 
final judgment in the ac~· , as will satisfy the plaintifff 'a demand,
with costs and expenses. he amount of the plaintifff's demand must 
be specified in the warran , s stated in the affidavit, W arrants may 
be issued at the same time, to sheriffs of different counti~
§ 642. It is not a defense to an action upon an-m1'd'ei·taking, given 
, f h h h ~-..l 
upon ~antmg a warrant o attac meut, t at t e warrant was grantee,
jmproperly, for want of jurisdiction, or for any other cause. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
EXBCUTllfG TBB WARRANT, PBNDING TBB AOTI01', 
-SBCTIOll 643, Judge who granted w&rrant controls its execution; power of the court 
thereupon.
644. Sheriff must attach property of defendant.
645. What interest in real property may be attached.
646 Attachment of unpaid subscription to foreign corporation.
647 Id. ; interest in corporation.
648. Id. ; negotiable securities.
649. How property to he attached.
650. Certificate of defendant's interest to be famished.
651. Person refusing certificate m11.y be examined. 
6ti2. Rights of owner or master of vessel on which goods have been 
ship:ped.
653. Foregomg section not to apply in certain cases. 
'>54. Sheriff must make inventory.
655. Sheriff may maintain actions,
656. Perishable goods to be sold.
657. Claim of property ; how tried.
658. Proceedings, if claimant succeeds.
659. Finding, not to preJudice right of claimant.
660. Proceedings on claim to domestic vessel.
661. Appraisers to be sworn; valuation to be returned. 
662. Undertaking to be given.
663. Vessel ; when to be discharged.
664. When undertaking to be sued.
665. Defence in such an action: plaintifff's recovery 
666. Foreign vessel j how valued.
667. Notice thereof.
'}68. Plaintiff' to give undertaking with sureties.
669. Vessel; when to be discharged,
670. Terms on which debtor may claim vessel.
671, 672, 673. When vessel to be sold.
674. Sheriff to keep.property. 
Sam,o• 675. Sheriff' may be directed to pay money into court.
676. When be may be directed to release or deliver property.
677. Plaintiff may bring action in name of himself and the sheriff'.
678. How leave to bring such an action procured.
679. Plaintiff may be joined wit.h sheriff, a.ft.er action eommeneed,
680. Judge to direct as to management of such an action, etc.
681. Return of inventory; how enforced, 
§ 644. The sheriff' must immediately execute the warrant, by levying
upon so much of the personal and real property of the defendant, 
within his county, not exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an execution, as will satisfy the plaintifff's demand, with the costs and expenses.
He must take into his custody all books of account, vouchers, and other
papers, relating to the personal property attached, and all evidences of
the defendant's title to the real property attached, which he must safely
keep, to be disposed of, as prescribed in this title. The sheriff, to
whom a warrant of attachment is delivered, may levy, from time to
time, and as often as is necessary, until the amount, for which it was
issued, bas been secured, or final judgment has been rendered in the
action, notwithstanding the expiration of his term of office. 
§ 645. The real property, which may be levied upon by virtue of a
warrant of attachment, includes any interest in real property, either 
vested or not vested, which is capable of being aliened by the
defendant. 
§ 646. Under a warrant of attachment against a foreign corporation,
other than a corporation created by or under the laws of the United 
States, the sheriff may ]evy upon the sum remaining unpaid upou a
subscription to the capital stock of the corporation, made by a person 
within the county; or upon one or more shares of stock therein, held
by such a person, or transferred by him, for the purpose of avoiding
payment thereof. 
§ 647. The rights or shares which the defendant has in the stock of~d.:
an association or corporation, together with the interests and protits~~tr~u~4:.· 
thereon, may be levied upon; and the sheriff's certificate of the sale,
thereof entitles the purchaser to the same rights and privileges, with
respect thereto, which the defendant had, when they were so attached. 
§ 648. The attachment may also by levied upon a cause of action 
arising upon contract] including a bond, promissory note, or other[ot.e,
instrument for the payment of money only, negotiable, or other- 
wise, whether past due, or yet to become due, executed by a
foreign or domestic government, State, county, public officer, association, municipal or other corporation, or by a private person,
either within or without the State; which belongs to the defeudant,

and is found within the county. The levy of the attachment thereupon is deemed a levy upon, and a seizure and attachment
of, the debt represented thereby. 
§ 649. A levy under a warrant of attachment must be made as
follows · 
• • 
1. Upon real property, by fi.hng with the clerk of the county, where:
it is situated, a notice of the attachment, stating the names of the par-:
ties to the action, the amount of the plaintifff's claim, as stated in the
warrant, and a description of the particular property levied upon. The;
notice must be subscribed by the plaintifff's attorney, adding his office
address ; and must be recorded and indexed by the clerk, iu the same
book, in like manner, and with/ike effect, as the notice of the pendency 
or au action. 
2. Upon personal property, capable of manual delivery, including a
bond, promissory note, or other instrument for the payment of money,
by taking the same into the sheriff's actual custody. He must there­
upon, without. delay, deliver to the person from whose possession the
property is taken, if any a copy of the warrant, and of the affidavits 
upon which it was grant.ed.
8. Upon other personal property, by leaving a certified copy of the 
warrant, and a notice showing the property attached, with the person
holding the same; or, if it eonsists of a demand, other than as specified
in the last subdivision, with the person against whom it exists; or, if
it consists of a right or share in the stock of an association or corpora­
tion, or interest or profits thereon, with the president, or other head of
the association or corporation, or the secretary, cashier, or managing 
agent thereof. 
§ 650. Upon the application of a sheriff, holding a warrant of attach­
ment, the president or other bead of an association or corporation, or 
the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof, or a debtor of the
defendant, or a person holding property, inclnding a bond, promissory 
note, or other instrument for the payment of money, belonging to the
defendant, must furnish to the sheriff a certificate, under his hand,
specifying the rights or number of shares of the defendant, in the
stock of the association or corporation, with all dividends declared, or
encumbrances thereon; or the amount, nature, and description of the
property, held for the benefit of the defendant, or of the defendant's
interest in property so held, or of the debt or demand owing to the
defendant, as the case requires. . 
§ 651. If a person, to whom application is made, as prescribed in the
ast section, refuses to give such a certificate ; or if it is made to appear, 
y affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge therecf, or the
ounty judge of the county to which the warrant is issued, that there 
s reason to suspect that a certificate given by him is untrue, or that it
ails fully to set forth the facts, required to be shown thereby; the
ourt or judge may make an order, directing him to attend, at a speci­
. eel time, and at a place within the county to which the warrant is 
lssued, and submit to an examination under oath, concerning the same.
trhe order may, in the discretion of the court or judge, direct an appear­
ance before a referee named therein. 
§ 652. Except as olherwisejrescribed in the next section, the owner
or master o a vessel, on boar of which goods of a e en. ant, against
whom a warrant of attachment is issued, have been shipped for trans­
portation, without reshipment or transshipment in the State, to a pod
or place without the State, may transport and deliver them according
to their destination, notwithstanding the warrant ; unless the plaintifff,
his agent, or attorney, executes to the owner or the master of the vessel,
a written undertaking, with sufficient sureties, in a sum specified
therein, to pay him all expenses, damages, and charges, which may be 
incurred by him, or to which he may be subjected, for unlading the
goods from the vessel, and for all necessary detention of the vessel, for
that purpose. The undertaking must be approved, with respect to its
form, the sum specified therein, and the sufficiency of the sureties, by 
a judge of the court, or the county judge of the county wherein the
vessel is situated, or, in the city and county of New-York, by a judge
of a superior city court within that cit.y and county. 
§ 653. The last section does ·not apijlY, where the owner or master,
before the shipment of the goods, had actual information of the grant­
in~ of the warrant, or where be has, in any wise, connived at, or been 
privy to, the shipment thereof, for the purpose of screening them from
legal process, or of hindering, delaying, or defrauding creditors. 
§ 654. lie sberi must, immediately after levying under a warrant
of attachment, make, with the assistance of two disinterested freehold- 
e1'8, a description of the real property, and a jnst and true inventory
of the personal property, upon which it was levied, and of the books, 
vouchers, and other papers taken into his custody, stating therein the
estimated value of each parcel of real property attached, or of the
mterest of the defendant therein, and of each article of personal property, enumerating such of the latter as are perishable. The inventory
must be signed by the sheriff' and the appraisers; and runst within
five days after the levy, be filed in the office of the clerk of the county,
where the property is attached. 
§ 655. The sheriff must, subject to the direction of the court or judge
collect and receive all debts, effects, and things in action, attached by
him. He may maintain any action or special proceeding, in his own
name, or in the name of the defendant, which is uecessary, for that
purpose, or to reduce to his actual possession an article of personal
property, capable of manual delivery, but of which be has been unable
to obtain possession. And he may discontinue such an action or special
procee.iiug, at such time and on such terms, as the court or judge
direct.s. 
§ 656. If property attached, other than a vessel, is perishable, the
court or judge may, by an order, made with or without notice, as the 
urgency of the case, in its or his opinion, requires, direct the sheriff to
sell it at public auction; and thereupon the sheriff must sell it ac­
cordingly. If it consists of Jive animals the same proceedings may be
bad, but such notice shall be given to the parties to the action, of the
application for the order as the court or judge prescribes. The order
directing the sale must prescribe the time and place of the sale, and
notice thereof, must be given in such manner, and for such time as
is prescribed in the order. The sheriff' must retain in his hands the
proceeds of the sale, after deducting his expenses, as allowed by the
court or judge. 
§ 657. If the goods or effects, other than a vessel, attached as the property of the defendant, are claimed by or in behalf of another person,
as his property, the sheriff may, in his discretion, empanel a jury to 
try the validity of the claim.
§ 658. If, by their inquisition, the jury find the property of the goods 
or effects to have been in the claimant at the time of the levy, the
sheriff must forthwith deliver them to him or bis agent; unless the 
plaintifff gives an undertaking, with sufficient suret.ies, to indemnify
the sheriff for the detention thereof. If t.he undertaking is given, the
sneriff must detain the goods or effects, as the property of the defendant. 
§ 659. If the property is found to be in the defendant, the findingJvinding
does not prejndice the right of the r.~aimant to bring an action, to re-~;it: 
cover the goods or effects, or the value thereof.
§ 660. Where a vessel, belonging to a port or place in the United 
States, or a share or interest therein, is attached, the court or judge, on
the application, wit~in thirty days th~reaft.er, ~f 8; :person claiming title thereto, or of his agent, must appoint three indifferent persons to 
make a valuation thereof. 
§ 661. A valuation of a vessel, or of a share or interest therein, made
as prescribed in this article must be in writing, and subscribed by the 
appraisers ; each of whom must take and subscribe au affidavit, annexed thereto, to the effect, that the valuation is, in all respects, just
and fair, and that the value of the vessel, share, or interest, is truly 
121 
stated therein, according to the deponent's belief. The valuation must
be immediately returned to the court or judge; and, after au under­
taking is given, or after the expiration of the time to give an undertak­
ing, as prescribed in the next section, it must be delivered to the 
sheriff. · 
§ 662. Within two days after the valuation is returned, the claimant
or bis agent may execute an undertaking to the sheriff, with sufficient
sureties, approved by the court or judge, who must justify in twice the
appraised value, to the effect, that, in an action to be brought on the
undertaking, the claimant will establish that be was the owner of the 
vessel, share or interest, at the time of the levy thereupon ; and that, 
in case of his failure to do so, be will pay the amount of the valuation,
with interest from the date of the undertaking, to the sheriff; or, if the
warrant is vacated or annuled, to the defendant, or bis personal repre­
sentative. 
§ 668. Upon such an undertaking being executed and delivered to 
the sheriff, the court or judge must make an order, directing the vessel 
or share to be discharged from the attachment. Thereupon the sheriff'
must discharge the same accordingly. 
§ 664. The court or judge may, upon the application of either party,
at auy time before the warrant is vacated o-r annulled, direct the sheriff 
to commence au action upon the undertaking, upon such terms and
conditions, and under such regulations, between him and the appli­
cant, as it or be deems just. And if the warrant of attachment is
vacated or annulled, the defendant in the attachment, bis assignee or
personal representative, may commence and maintain an action upon
the undertaking, or may be substituted, in place of the sheriff, in an
action pending thereupon. 
§ 665. In such an action, the claimant may show, in bar of a recovery,
that he was the owner of the vessel, share, or interest at the time
when it was attached. If judgment passes against him, the plaintifff 
is entitled to recover the amount of the valuation, with interest from 
the date of the undertaking.
§ 666. Where a foreign vessel, or a share or interest therein, is 
attached, it must be valued, as prescribed in sections six hundred and
sixty and six hundred and sixty-one of this act, upon the application
of a. person, who makes affidavit, to the effect that he is the owner
thereof, or that he is the agent of a person, naming him and bis resi­
dence, whom be believes to be the owner of the vessel, share or interest 
attached. 
§ 667. Such notice of the application must be given to the plaintifff, 
as the court or judge deems reasonable.
§ 668. Within three days after the valuation i8 returned, the plaintifff 
must give, to the person in whose behalf the claim is made, an under­
taking, with sufficient sureties, approved by the court or judge, who 
must jnstify in twice the appraised value, to the effect that they will 
pay such damages as may be recovered for seizing the vessel, share, or
interest, in an action brought against the sheriff, or the plaintifff iu the
attachment, within three months from the approval of the undertaking,
if it appears therein that the vessel, share, or interest belonged, at the
time of attaching it, to the person in whose behalf the claim is made. 
§ 669. Unless such an undertaking is given, the court or judge must
grant an order discharging the vessel, share, or interest 80 claimed, 
from the attachment; whereupon the sheriff must discharge the same
accordingly 
§ 670. If, after such an undertaking is given by the plaintifff', the
warra.ut is vacated or annulled, or the attachment is discharged as to
the vessel, share or interest, the defendant or his agent is entitled to 
claim the same, or the proceeds thereof, if it has been sold, only upon
his showing, to the satisfaction of the court or judge, that the undertaking bas been discharged; or giving to the plaintifff an undertakiug,
with sufficient sureties, approved by the court or judge, who must justify in twice the appraised value, to the effect, that they will indemnify
the plaintifff against all charges and expenses, in consequence of the 
u ndertakiug. 
§ 671. If the undertaking of the plaintifff is not discharged, or he is
not indemnified, as prescribed in this article, within one month after
the defendant becomes entitled to claim the vessel, share, or interest,
as so prescribed, it may be sold by the sheriff, in whose custody it is,
upon an order of the court or judge ; and the proceeds of the sale must
be pa.id to the persons who executed the undertaking, for their indemnity. 
§ 672. If a claim is not made, by or in behalf of an owner of a domestic vessel, or of a share or interest therein, within thirty days after
it is attached, or if the proper undertaking is not executed by the
claimant ; or if a claim is not made, within that time, by or iu behalf
of the owner of a foreign vessel, or of a share or interest therein; the
vessel, share, or interest, may be sold by the sheriff, under an order of
the court or judge, upon the application of the plaintifff, if, in the opinion of the court or judge, a sale is necessary. 
§ 673. Where a share or interest in a vessel, foreign or domestic, is
attached, if the proper claim to it is not made, by or in behalf of an
owner thereof, within thirty days thereafter, it may be sold by the
sheriff, under an order of the court or judge, upon the application of a
joint owner, or his agent. 
§ 674. The sheriff must keep the property attached by him, or the
proceeds of property sold, or of a demand collected by him, to answer
any judgment that may be obtained against the defendant in the
action. 
§ 675. But the court upon the application of either party to the
action, may direct the sheriff, either before or after the expiration of 
his term of office, to pay into court the proceeds of a demand collected,
or property sold ; or to deposit them in a designated bank or trust 
company, to be drawn out only upon the order of the conrt. .
§ 676. Where the proceeds of the property sold, and of the demands 
collected by the sheriff, exceed the amount of the plaintifff's demand,
with the costs and expenses, and of all other warrants of attachment
or executions in the sheriff's hands, chargeable upon the same ; the
court, or the judge who granted the warrant, upon the application of
the defendant, or of an assignee of, or purchaser from the defendant,
and upon notice to the plaintifff, and the plaintifffs in the other warrants or executions, may, at any time during the pendency of the action,
make an order, directing the sheriff to pay over· the surplus to the
applicant, and to release from the attachment the remaining real and
personal property attached. . 
§ 677. The plaintifff, by leave of the court or judge, procured as prescribed in the next section, may bring and maintain, in the name of him- 
self and the sheriff jointly, by his own attorney, and at his own expense,
any action which, by the provisions of this title, may be brought by
the sheriff, to recover property attached, or the value thereof, or a de- 
mand attached, or upon an undertaking given as prescribed in this title, by a person other than the plaintifff. The sheriff must receive the
proceeds of such an action, but he is not liable for the costs or expenses
thereof. Costs may be awarded, in such an action, against the plain­
tiff in the warrant, but not against the sheriff. 
§ 678. The court or judge must grant leave to bring such an action,
where it appears, that due notice of the application therefore has been 
given to the sheriff; but, before doing so, the court or judge may require
that notice of the application be given to the plaintifff, in any other war­ 
rant against the same defendant. And such terms, conditions, and
regulations may be imposed, in the order granting leave, as the court
or judge thinks proper, for the due protection of the rights and interests
of all persons, interested in the disposition of the proceeds of the action. 
§ 679. Leave may, in like manner and with like effect, be granted to
the plaintifff in the warrant, to be joined with the sheriff, in an action
bronght by the sheriff, in a case where he might have procured leave
to bring the action, as prescribed in the last two sections. Upon an application therefore, the court or judge may, in a proper case, require the
plaintifff' to provide for the expenses in the action, already incurred by
the sheriff. The application must be denied, in case of an unreasona­
ble delay in making it; or where an application was made, before the
action was brought, and the plaintifff neglected or refused, without a
good excuse therefore, to comply with the terms, conditions or regula ..
tions then imposed. 
§ 680. The court or judge may, upon the application of the sheriff,
or of the defendant in the warrant, during the peudency of an action, 
brought as prescribed in the last three sections, direct as to the con­
duct, discontinuance, or settlement of the same, and as to the application or disposition of the money or property recovered therein, as jus­ 
tice requires.
§ 681. Upon the application of either party, and proof of tbe neglect 
of the sheriff, the court or judge may, by order, require the sheriff to
return an inventory. Disobedience to such an order may be punished, 
as a contempt of the court. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
VA.CA.TI1'G OR KODIPYIBG TIIB WARRANT ; Dl8CIURGl1'G THB ATTA.CBHDT. 
SBCr10:ir 682. Motion to vacate or modify warrant, or increase security.
683. How motion must be made; opposing it by new proofs. 
*68'4, *685. Questions of fact a.1ising on the motion.
686. When prior motion not to prejudice subsequent motion.
687. Defendant may apply for discharge of attachment.
688. Undertaking to be given.
689. Application by one of several defendants,
690. Sureties to Justify if required.
691. Sheriff' may retain property until justification.
692. Foregoing provisions applicable to vessels.
6g3, Partners may apply to discharge attachment.
694. Undertaking to be given.
695. Court or judge may ascertain value.
696. When plaintifff entitled to notice of any application, etc. 
§ 682. The defendant, or e. person who has acquired a lien upon, or
interest in, bis property, after it was attached, may; at any time before· 
the actual application of the attached property, or the proceeds thereof; 
to the payment of a judgment recovered in the action, apply to vacate
~r modify the warrant, or to increase the security, given by the plaintifff', 
or for one or more of those forms of relief, together, or in the alternative. 
§ 683. An application, specified in the last section, may be founded 
only upon the papers upon which the warrant was granted; in which 
case, it must, be made to the court, or, if the warrant was granted by
a judge out of court, to the same judge, iu court or out of court, and 
with or without. notice, as he deems proper. Or it may be founded
upon proof, by affidavit, on the part of the defendant ; in which case,
it must be made to the court, or,.if the warrant was granted by a judge
out of court, to any judge of the court; upon notice ; and it may be
opposed by new proof, by a.flida.vit, on the part of the plaintifff', tending 
to sustain any ground for the attachment, recited in the warrant, and
uo other, unless the defendant relies upon a. discharge in bankruptcy,
or upon a discharge or exoneration, granted in insolvent proceedings;
in which case, the plaintifff may show any matter, in avoidance thereof,
which he: might show upon the trial. 
§ 686. Tue denial of such an application does not prejudice a subse- 
qnent application, *seasonable made, founded upon tbe failure of a
complaint, which had not been filed or served at the time of the former 
application, to set forth anyof tbe causes of.action, mentioned in section
aix hundred and thirty-five aud section six hundred and thirty-seven
of this act. 
§ 687. The defendant may, at any time after he has appeared in the
action, and before final judgment, apply to the judge who granted the 
warrant, or to the court for an order to discharge the attachment, as to 
the whole or a part of the property attached.
§ 688. Upon such an application, the defendant must give an under- 
'taking, with at least. two sufficient sureties, to the effect that he will,
on demand, pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which
may be recovered in the action against him, not exceeding a sum specified in the. undertaking, with interest. The sum so specified must be 
at least equal to the amount of the plaintifff 'a demand, as specified in
his affidavit; or, a.t the option of the defendant, equal to the appraised
value, according to the inventory, of the property attached; or, if the 
_ application is to discharge the attachment, as to a part only of the
property attached, to the appraised value of that portion. 
§ 689. Where there are two or more defendants, and an application
is made, as prescribed in the last two sections, by one or more, but not 
by all of them, the undertaking must provide for the payment of any
judgment, which may be recovered agaiu.st any or the. defendants in
the action, unless the applicant makes proof, by affidavit, to the satisfactiou of the court or [udge.. that the property, with respect to which 
th:e application is made, belongs to him separately; in which case, the
undertaking must provide for the payment of any judgment, which
may be recovered in the action age.inst the applicant, either alone or 
jointly with any other defendant. Where an application is made, as
prescribed in this section, at least two days notice thereof, with a copy
of the affidavit, must be served upon the ; laintitf's attorney, who may
oppose the application by proof, by affidavit, that one or more of the
other defendants own, or have an interest in the property. 
§ 690. An undertaking, given as prescribed in the last two sections, 
must be forthwith filed with the clerk. A copy thereof, with a notice
of the filing must be forthwith served upon the plaintifff's attorney; 
who may, within tJna. d&Ji .Jbereafter, give notice to the sheriff, that
he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. Thereupon the sureties 
must justify, upon the like notice, and in like manner, as bail upon an
arrest; or a new undertaking must be given, with new sureties, who
must justify in like manner. If the plaintifff does not except, as pre­
scribed in this section, be is deemed to have waived all objection to
the sureties. 
§ 691. The sheriff is responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties:
and he may retain possession of the property attached, and the pro­ 
ceeds thereof, until the objection to them is waived, as prescribed in
the last section, or they, or the new sureties, justify. 
§ 692. The last five sections are applicable, where a vessel, or a
share or interest therein is attached. If it is necessary, to enable the
defendant to discharge the attachment, the court or judge may, by 
order, stay any proceedings specified in article second of this title, or
extend the time to do any act therein specified. 
§ 693. If a warrant of attachment is levied upon the interest of one
or more partners, in goods or chattels of a partnership, the other part­ 
ners, who are not defendants in the action, or any of them, may at
any time before final judgment, apply to the judge who granted the
warrant, or to the court, upon an affidavit showing the facts, for an
order to discharge the attachment, as to that interest. 
§ 694. Upon such an application, the applicant must give an under­
taking, with at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that they will
pay to the sheriff, on demand, the amount of any judgment, which
may be recovered against the partner who is defendant in the action ;
or which may be recovered age.inst him, in any other action, wherein
the other partners are not defendants, and wherein a warrant of
attachment, or an execution, may come to the sheriff's bands, at any
time before the warrant of attachment, which was so levied, is vacated
or annulled; not exceeding e. sum, specified in the undertaking, which
must not be less than the value of the interest of the defendant, in the
goods or chattels seized by virtue of the attachment, as fixed by the
court or judge; if the value, in the opinion of the court or judge, is 
uncertain, the sum shall be such as the court or judge determines. 
§ 695. For the purpose of fixing the sum, or determining the sufficiency of the sureties, the court or judge may receive affidavits or 
oral testimony, or may direct a reference. · 
§ 696. The court or judge may direct, that the plaintifff have notice
of an application for a discharge of property, as prescribed in this article, or of the hearing under an order of reference, made as pre­ 
scribed in the last section ; and, if the applicant does not appear,
w ere no ice as een given, e app ca ion may e rusnnsee or
denied. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
B.ao11L..lTION8 WHBBB THBBB ARB Two OR MORB WARRANTS AGAINST TBB a.um 
DBFBNDART. 
RBoT!oN 697. Preferences of two or more warrants.
698. Rule as to levy under a junior warrant. 
*699. Subsequent warrant.a to be under control of judge, who issued firn
Wa.JTant. 
*700. The last section qualified.
701. Undertaking, by junior attaching creditor, to prevent release of 
foreign vessel.
'702. Rule as to subsequent attachment of foreign vessel. 
703. Rights of junior plaintifff' in action by senior plaintifff' and sheriff'
jointly. 
704. Junior plaintifff may be a.llowed to commence action jointly with
sheriff 
705. Rights of third and other subsequent attaching credito1'8, 
§ 697. Where two or more warrants of attachment, against the same
defendant, are delivered to the sheriff of the same county, to be
executed, their respective· preferences, and the rules, where a levy, or
a. levy and sale, have been made under a junior warrant, are the same, 
as where two or more executions, against the property of the same de­
fendant, are delivered to the sheriff of the same county, to be executed. 
§ 698. Where a domestic vessel, or a share or interest therein, has
been attached, and afterwards released, as prescribed in this title; or 
where the personal property of a partnership, of which the defendant
was a member, bas been attached, and the attachment afterwards dis­
charged, upon the application of another partner, as prescribed in this title; another warrant, against the same defendant, shall not be levied
on the same property, by the sheriff of the same or of any other county,
until after the first warrant has been vacated or annulled. But, except
as thus prescribed, where a second warrant, against the same defendant, is delivered to the same sheriff, he must execute it, by a levy upon
property within his county, and he must thereupon take the same pro­
ceedings, as if the levy was made under the first warrant. 
§ 701. Where a foreign vessel, or a share or interest therein, bas been
ttached and valued, as prescribed in article second of this title, and 
the plaintifff', in the first warrant of attachment, fails to give an undertaking to prevent the release thereof, the court or judge may grant to
the plaintifff' in a second warrant, then in the sheriff's hands for execution, an extension, of not more than three days thereafter, within which 
to furnish an undertaking, in all respects like the one to be furnished
by the first plaintifff. And if he furnishes it, within that time, he has
the same rights and privileges, and is subject to the same duties and
liabilities, with respect to the vessel and its proceeds, and the subsequent proceedings relating thereto, as if his was the first warrant. 
§ 702. If a foreign vessel, or a share or interest therein, has been
attached, and afterwards released, by reason of the failure of the 
plaintifff', in the first or the second warrant, to give an undertaking to
prevent .the release, it shall not be again attached, under warrant 
against the same defendant, which had been delivered to the sheriff'
of the same county, before the expiration of the time within which the
nndertaking should have been furnished. But it may be again attached,
under a subsequent warrant against the same defendant; in which case, 
the plaintifff therein, and the plaintifff in each warrant subsequently
delivered to the sheriff, have the same rights, and privileges, and are
subject to the same duties and liabilities, with respect to the veesel and
its proceeds, and the subsequent proceedings relating thereto, as if the
warrant, under which it was attached, was the first warrant. 
§ 703. Where the plaintifff' in a warrant of attachment has com­
menced an action, in the name of himself and the sheriff jointly, as
prescribed in this title, a plaintifff in a junior warrant may apply to the 
court or judge, to direct as to the conduct, discontinuance, or settle­
ment of the same, or to impose terms, conditions, and regulations as to
the continuance thereof, in the interest of the applicant; and such
order may be made thereupon, as justice requires. If the first warrant
is vacated, or the attachment thereunder is released or discharged, with­
out affecting the cause of action prosecuted by the plaintifff' therein and
the sheriff jointly, the plaintifff in the warrant next in order, may, upon
his own application, be substituted as joint plaintifff' with the sheriff,
by an order, made as upon an application for leave to bring such an 
action.
§ 704. A plaintifff in a second warrant may apply to the court or 
judge, upon notice to the plaintifff in the first warrant, and to the
sheriff', for leave to bring and maintain, in the name of himself and the
sheriff joint.ly, any action, which might be brought in the name of the
senior plaintifff and the sheriff. If it appears that the plaintifff in the
first warrant neglects or refuses to be joined with the sheriff in such
an action, or to comply with the terms; conditions, and regulations,
imposed, either upon granting him an order for that purpose, or upon
the hearing of an application, made as prescribed in this section, the
court or judge may grant to the plaintifff in the second warrant, leave 
to bring and maintain such an action, in the name of himself and the
sheriff jointly, with like effect, as if his was the first warrant. 
§ 705. Where there are more than two warrants of attachment,
against the same defendant, the plaintifffs in the third and each sub­
sequent warrant have, according to their respective priorities, the same
rights and privileges, as against the plaintifffs in all senior warrants,
which the plaintifff in the second warrant has, 88 against the plaintifff
in the first, and are subject to the same duties and liabilities; except
that a second extension of the time, within which to furnish an under­
taking to prevent the release of a foreign vessel, or a share or interest
thereiu, shall not be granted. And the plaintifffs in two or more junior
warrants of attachment, may, by agreement among themselves, take
jointly, and for their common benefit, any proceeding, permitted by
this title to be taken, by the plaintifff in a second or subsequent warrant
of attachment ; provided that it does not interfere with the preferential
or other right of an intermediate plaintifff. 
TITLE X
PJlOOBBDilfGS AFTRR JUDGHBNT ; RIGHTS OF PART1B8 AND DUTIBS 011' THB SJJBBIPI',
Arl"BR THB W ABlUMT 18 VACATBD OR ANNULLBD, OR THB A.TT ACHMBlfT D{8CHAROBD. 
8Bcr10N 706. Execution to isene to sheriff who has levied.
707. Only attached property bound when aummons not peraon&lly served.
708. Judgment in the principal action; bow satisfied. ·
709. When attachment discharged, etc., property to be restored to defend· 
ant. 
ARTICLE FIFTH. 
~BCriolf 710. Additional provL~on for his relief.
711. Cancelling notice attaching real property.
712. When sheriff' to return warrant and his proceedings. 
§ 706. Where a levy, under a warrant of attachment in an action,
has been made, an execution against property, upon a final judgment~
in favor of the plaintifff therein, recovered after the expiration of the
term of office of the sheriff, who made the ]evy, must nevertheless be 
directed to an* executed by that sheriff, unless another person is designated by law to complete the unfinished business pertaining to his
office; or, in that. case, to the person so designated. 
§ 707. Where a defendant who has not appeared is a non-resident of
the state, or a foreign corporation, and the summons was served with- 
out the State, or by publication, pursuant to an order obtained for that
purpose, as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act, the judgment can be
enforced only against the property which has been levied upon, by
virtue of the warrant of attachment, at the time when the judgment
is enter ed. ht t.his section does not declare the effect of such a judg­
ment, with respect to the application of any statute of limitationx 
§ 708. Where an execution against property is issued upon a Jndg-ttr°e~t
ment for the plaintifff, in an action in which a warrant of attachment 
has been levied, the sheriff must satisfy it, as follows:
1. He must pay over to the plaintlff all 111011ey attached by him, 
and all proceeds of the sales of perishable property, or of auy vessel,
or share or interest therein, or animals, sold by him, or of any debts or
other things in action collected or sold by him; or so much thereof as
is neceseary to satisfy the judgment. 
2. If any balance remains due, he must sell, under the execution,
the other personal property attached, or so much thereof as is neces­
sary; including rights or shares in the stock of an association or cor­
poration, or a bond or other instrument for the payment of money,
executed and issued with the interest coupons annexed, if any, by a
government., State, county, public officer, or municipal or other eorpor­
ation, which is in terms negotiable, or payable to the bearer. or holder,
the principal whereof is not then payable; but not including any
other debt or thing in action. If the proceeds of that property are
insufficient to satisfy the judgment, and the execution requires him to
satisfy it out of any other personal property of the defendant, he must
sell the personal property, upon which he has levied by virtue of the
execution. If the proceeds of the personal property, applicable to the
execution, are insufficient to satisfy the judgment, the sheriff must sell,
under the execution, all the right, title, and interest, which the defend­
ant had in the real property attached, at the time when the notice was
fl.led, or at any time afterwards, before resorting to any other real 
property.
3. If personal property attached, belonging to the defendant, has 
passed out of the hands of the sheriff without having been sold or
converted into money, and the attachment has not been discharged, as 
to that property, he must, if practicable, regain possession thereof;
and, for that purpose, he has all the authority which he had, to seize
the same under the warrant. If{.. person who willfully conceals or with­
holds such property from him, M.ab]e to double damages, at the suit 
of the party aggrieved,) 
4. Until the judgment is paid, he may collect the debts and other
things in action attached, and prosecute any undertaking, which he
has taken in the course of the proceedings, and apply the proceeds
thereof to the payment of the judgment. 
5. At any time after levying the attachment, the court, upon the
petition of the plaintifff, accompanied with an affidavit, specifying
fully all . the proceedings of the ~he riff, since the levy under the war­
rant, the property attached, and the disposition thereof; and the
affidavit of the sheriff, showing that he has used diligence, in endesv­
oring to collect the debts and other things· in action attached, and tbai
a portion thereof remains uncollected ; may direct the sheriff to sell
the remaining portion, upon such terms, and in such manuer, as U
thinks proper. 'Notice of the application must be given to the defend­
ant's attorney, if the defendant appeared in the action. If the sum­
mons was not personally served on the defendant, and he did no,
appear, the court may make such order as to the service of notice, as ii 
thinka proper ; or may grant the application without notice.
§ 709. Where a warrant of attachment is vacated, or annulled, or an 
attachment is discharged, upon the application of the defendant, the
sheriff must, except in a case where it is otherwise specially prescribed 
by law, deliver over to the defendant, or to the person entitled thereto,
upon reasonable demand, and upon payment of all costs, charges, and ex- 
penses, legally chargeable by the sheriff, all the attached personal property
remaining in his hands, or that portion thereof, as to which the attach­
ment is discharged ; or the proceeds thereof, if it has been sold by him. 
§ 710. Where the sheriff is required, by this title, to deliver attac~ed
property, or the proceeds thereof, to the defendant, he must also dehver 
to him, unless otherwise specially directed by the court or judge, all 
books of account, vouchers, evidences of debt, muniments of title, or
other papers, relating to the property, either real or personal, or to its
proceeds ; together with all undertakings, relating thereto, which he
has taken in the course of the proceedings, and which have not been
fully satisfied; except an undertaking, given by the defendant, upon
the discharge of property. He must also deliver a written assignment
duly acknowledged, of each undertaking, so delivered, and of each 
other instrument, to which the defendant is thus entitled, au assi~­
ment of which is necessary to perfect or protect the defendant's title
thereto. CJ:lle defendant must also, but upon his own application only,
be substituted in the place of the sheriff, or the sheriff and the plaintifff
jointly, in an action brought as prescribed in this title') but the court
or judge may impose, as a condition of granting the o:r«er of substitution,
such terms as justice requires, with respect to indemnity and payment
of expenses. The defendant's rights, with respect to property attached
and not disposed of, and an undertaking, or other instrument, to which
he is thus entitled, are the same as those of the sheriff while the warrant was still in force, except where his rights are specially defined or
regulated by law. 
§ 711. At any time _after the warrant of _attachment has been vacated
or annulled, or the attachment has been discharged as to real prorerty 
~ttached, t.h_e court may, in its discl:'tion, _upon the.appli~ation o any
person aggrieved, and upon such notice as 1t deems Just, direct that any
notice, 'flied for the purpose of attaching the property, be cancelled of
record, by the clerk of the county where it is filed and recorded. The
cancellation must be made by -a 'Dote, to that effect, on the margin of 
the record, referring to the order ; and, unlese the order is entered in 
the eame olerk'e office, a certified copy thereof must, at the 88.Dle time,
be flied therein. 
§ 712. Where a warrant of attachment hes been vacated or annulled,
the sheriff muet forthwith file, in the clerk's office, the w~nt, with a 
Teturn of his prooeedinge thereon. Upon the application of either
~y, and plOOf of the sheriff's neglect, the court mav direet him 80 
to do, forthwith, or within a specified time. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
8mormlr 713. ReceiYer ; when ~i.Dt.ed.
'714. Notice of application.
715. Security. 
TITLB IV. 
OtMr ~ nnn«lie3; general, and ~ procirion,.J 
A1rncLB 1. Recetvers. 
2. Deposrt, deBvery. or conveyance of property. 
8. General and miscellaneoua provisiona. 
RllCmVBB&. 
716. Certain receiven may hold real pn>pe.ty. 
§ 718. Ir addition to the seer where the appointment of a reeeiYer is 
specially provided for by law, a receiver of property, which is the sub-=~
jeet of 811 action, in the supreme court, a superior city court, or a county
court, may be appointed by the court, in either of the following cases: 
1. Before final judgment, on the application of a party who estab­
lishes an apparent right to, or interest in, the property, where it is in
the possession of an adverse pa.rty, and there is danger that it will be
removed beyond the jurisdiction of the court, or lost, materially injured, 
or destroyed.
2. By or after the final judgment, to carry the judgment into effect, 
or to dispoBe of the property, according to its directions.
S. Aft.er final judgment, to preserve the property, during tae pend- 
~ of aa. appeal
The word" property," es nsed in this section, includes the rentsl 
Jm!fite, M' other immne, and the increase, of real CR' persona! property
§ 714. Notice'Of' an application, for the appointment of a receiver, in 
an action, before judgment therein, must be given to the adverse party,
11Dless be has failed ~ appear in the action, and the time limited for
his appearance has expired. Bat where an order ha.a been made.aa
preecribed in seetion fom hundred and thirty-eigllt of this act, the 
court may, in its discretion, appoint a temporary receiver, to receive 
and preeerve the property, without notice, or upon a notice given by 
publication or"Otherwiwe, as it thinks proper.
§ 715. A receiver, appointed in an action or special proceeding, must, 
berore entering apon his duties, execute and file with tne proper clerk,
a bond, te the people, with at least two'8ufficient suretiee, in a penalty
fixed by file eonrt, jnd~, or referee, making the appointment, oonditinned for tbe faithful discharge ·f1f bis duties ae receiver. And t11e 
eo.m; or, where tlae 1Jl'der WM made out of court, the judge making
the order, by or pmmant to which the receiTer "W88 appointed ; or his 
smx:easor in o1!1ice ; ~l' at any time remove the receiver, or direct
him to give a new , witll new 8Ufetre8, with th like condition. 
1st 
But this section does not apply to a case, where special provision is
made by law, for the security to be $1-ven by a receiver, or for increas­
in§' the same, or for removing a receiver. 
§ 716. A receiver, appointed by or pursuant to an order or a judg­
ment, in an action in the supreme court, a superior city court, or a
county court, or in a special proceeding for the voluntary dissolution
of a. corporation, may take and hold real property, upon such trusts and ·
for such purposes as the court directs, subject to tho direction of the
court, from time. to time, respecting the disposition thereof.
TITLE X 
DBPoslT, DBLIVBRY, oa CoNVBYANCB oF PBoPERTY. 
8BC'l'lo:N 717. Court may order a deposit or delivery of property in certa.in eases.
718. When sheriff may take and convey, etc., property. 
§ 717. Where it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of & 
party, that be bas, in his possession or under liis control, money, or
other personal property capable of delivery, which, being the subject 
of the action or special proceeding, is held by him as trustee for another
party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the court may, in
its discretion, grant an order upon notice, that it be paid into, or de­
posited in court, or delivered to that party, with or without security,
subject to the further direction of the court. 
§ 718. Where the court has directed a deposit or delivery, as pre­
scribed in the last section; or where a judgment directs a party to
make a deposit or delivery, or to convey real property; if the direction
is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience as a con- 
tempt, may, by order, require the sheriff to take, and deposit or deliver
the money or other personal property, or to convey the real property,
in conformity with the direction of the court. 

§ 719. Where application for an order of arrest, an injunction, and
a warrant of attachment, or two of them, is made, in the same action,
against the same defendant; and it satisfactorily appears that, under
the particular circumstances of the case, two or all of them are not
necessary for the plaintifff's security, the court or judge may, in its or 
his discretion, require the plaintifff to elect between them. Where an
application is made to obtain, vacate, modify, or set aside an order of 
arrest, injunction order, or warrant of attachment, the court or judge
must finally decide the same, within twenty du;q after it is submitted 
d , .
§ 720. Where the defendant interposes a counterclaim and thereupon demands eu effinuatixe judiw~ut against the plaintifff', his right 
to a provisional remedy is the same as in an action brought by him
against the plaintifff', for the cause of action stated in the counterclaim,
and demanding the same judgment. And for the purpose of applying
to such a case the provisions of this act, the defendant is deemed the
plaintifff, the plaintifff is deemed the defendant, and the counterclaim
so set forth in the answer is deemed the compla.int. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
MISCELLANEOUS INTERLOCUTORY PROCEEDINGS, AND
REGULATION8 OF PRACTICE. 
TITLE
TITLE 
TITLE 
TITLE 
CHAPTER VIII. 
!.-MISTAKES, OMISSIONS, DEFECTS, AND IRRBGULARITIES. 
II. -TENDER, AND OTHER OFFERS AND REQUESTS TO TBB
ADVERSE PARTY. 
III. - p A. YMENT OP MONEY INTO COURT, AND CA.RB A.ND DIS­
POSITION THEREOF. 
IV. -PROCEEDINGS UPON THE DEA.TH OR DIBA.BILITY OP A. 
PARTY, OR THE TRANSFER OF HIS INTEREST.
TITLE V.-MoTIONS AND ORDEM GENERALLY.
TITLE VI. - MISCELLANBOU8 PRA.CTICB REGULATIONS. 
TITLE I. 
Mistakea, omissions, d6f ects, and irregularitia. 
8'BCTlolf 721. Defects cored by verdict, etc., and by judgment.
722. Such defects to be supplied. · 
728. Amendments by the court; disregarding immaterial errors, etc. 
724. Relief against omissions, etc. ; amendments to conform proeeedinga.
725. Returns by officers, etc. .
726. Papers lost or withheld; how supplied.
727. Order of court; when necessa.l]'. to amend.
728. Disregarding defects in atlidavtts.
729. Certain bonds, ete., when sufficient.
730. Amending defects in bonds, etc. 
§ 721. In a court of record, where a verdict, report, or decision
bas been rendered, the judgment shall not be stayed, nor shall any 
judgment or a court of record be impaired or affected, by reason of
either of the following imperfections, omissions, defects, matters, or
thingtJ, in the process, pleadings, or other proceedings: 
1. For want of a summons, or other writ.
2. For any fault or defect in process: or for misconceiving a process, 
ar awarding it to a wrong officer.
8. For an imperfect or insufficient return of a sheriff or other officer; 
or because an officer has not subscribed a return,actuaJly made by him.
4. For a variance between the summons and complaint.
5. For a misplea.ding, insufficient peading,*or jeofai~
6. For want of a warrant of attorney by either party.
7. For the appearance, by attorney, of an infant party, if the verdict, 
report, or decision, or the judgment,is in his favor.
8. For omitting to allege any matter, without proof of which the 
verdict, report, or decision ought not to have been rendered.
9. For a mistake in the name of a party or other persont or in a 
sa 
sum of money; or in the description of property; or in reciting oi 
stating a day, month or year; where the correct name, sum, descrip­
tion, or date bas been once rightly stated, in any of the pleadings or 
other proceedings.
10. For a mistake in the name of a juror or officer.
11. For an informality in entering judgment, or making up the 
Jaagment-roll. 
12. For an omission on the part of a referee to be sworn • or for any
other default or negligence of the clerk, or any other officer of the
court, or of a party, bis attorney or counsel, by which the adverse 
party has not 6een prejudiced. 
§ 722. Each or the omissions, impe:rf'ections, defects, and variances,
specifle in the last section, and any other of like nature, not being
against the right and justice of the matter, and not altering the issue
between the parties, or the trial, must, when necessary, be supplied,
and the/roceeding amended, by the court wherein the judgment is 
rendere , or by an appellate court.
§ 723. The court may, upon the trial, or at any other stage of the 
ction, before or after judgment, in furtherance of justice, and on such
rms as it deems just, amend any process, pleading, or other proceed- 
ddi iki
ug, by a mg or str1 mg out the name of a person as a party, or by 
orrecting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
espect, or by inserting an allegation material to the case ; or, where 
he amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense, by
onf orming the pleading or other proceeding to the facts proved. And, 
every stage of the act.ion, the court must disregard an error or defect
n the flea.dings or other proceedings, which does not affect the sub­ 
tautia rights of the adverse party. 
§ 724. The court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon such terms
as justice requires, at any time within one year after notice thereof,
relieve a party from a judgment, order, or other proceeding, taken
against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect; and may supply an omission in any proceedin~. Where a pro­
ceeding, taken by a party, fails to conform to a provision of this act,
the court may, in like manner, and upon like terms, permit an amendment thereof, to conform it to the provision. 
§ 725. A court, to which a return is made by a sheriff or other officer,
or by a subordinate court or other tribunal, may, in its discretion, 
direct the return to be amended, iu matter of form, either before or
after judgmeut. 
§ 726. Where an original pleading or paper is lost, or withheld by
any person, the court may authorize a. copy to be filed and used, instead 
of the original.
§ 727. A process, pleading, or record, shall not be altered, by the 
clerk or any other officer of the court, or by auy other person, without
the direction of the court, or of another court of competent authority;
except in a case where a party, or his attorney, is specially authorized 
by law to amend a pleading. 
§ 728. The want of a title, or a defect in the title, of an affidavit,
oes not impair it, if it intelligibly refers to the action or special pro- 
eding, in which it is made.
§ 729. Aboud or undertaking, required by statute to be given by a 
person, to eutitle him to a. right or privilege, or to take a proceeding, 
ts suflicieut, if it conforms substantially to the form therefore, prescribed
by the statute, and does not vary therefrom, to the prejudice of the
rights of the party,~ whom, or for whose benefit it is given. 
134 
§ 780. Where such a bond or undertaklng is defective, the court,
officer; or body, that would be authorized to receive it, or to entertain 
a proceeding in consequence thereof, if it was perfect, may, on the
application of the persons who executed. it, amend it accordingly; and
it shall thereupon be valid, from the time or its execution. 
TITLE n, 
&.ono• 731. Tender after suit, .
732~ Amount w be p..,i4 into epurt, ~ 
733. Effect of sufficient t.ender.
734. When to be deducted from recovery, etc.
785. Requiring admission of genuinenet11t of pa~r.
736. Offer to liquidate damages conditionally.
787. Effect o(l'efusa.l of offer.
738. Defendant's offer to compromise ; proceedings thereon.
739. Plaintiff's offe1· to compromise counterclaim ; proceedinga thereoL
740. Offer and acceptance, by whom subscribed. 
• 741. Rule if offer made within ten days before trial.
• 742. In certain cases, j"dgQlent to be set aside. 
§ 731. Where the complaint demands judgment for ~ sum of money
~ly ; and the action is brought to recover a sum certain, or which may
be reduced to certainty by calculation; or to recover damages for ·a 
easual or involuntary personal injury, or a like injury to pror.erty; the
defendant, or bis attorney, may, a.t any time before the tria, tender to
the plaintifff, or bis attorney, such a sum of money, as he conceives to
be sufficient to make amends for the injury, or to pay the plaintifff's
demand; together with the cps~ of the action, to that time. 
§ 732. A. tender, made as prescribed in the last section, does not
avail the defendant, unless the money is accepted,· or is paid into court,
and notice thereof in writing served upon the plaintifff's att.ornev before
,he trial, and within teu days ~fter the tender. H the plaintifff take1
.out the amount paid in he accepts the tender. 
§ 733. If it appears, upon the trial, that the sum so tendered was
sufficient to pay the plaintifff's demand, or to make amends for the
injury, and also to pay the costs of the action, to the time of the tender, the plaintifff cannot recover costs or interest, from the time of the
tender, but must pay the defendant's costs from that time, 
§ 734. If the plaintifff J>rOceeds in the action, after accepting the
tender, the sum accepted must be deducted from the recovery, and
judgment rendered for the residue, if any ; and if the tender and
acceptance do not appear In the pleadings, a memorandum thereof
must be annexed to the judgment-roll. The plaintifff's right to recover
costs, and his liability to pq.y costs to the defendant, are determined
by the amount of the residue. 
§ 735. The attorney for & party may, at any' time before the trial,
exhibit to the attorney for the adverse party, a paper, material to the
action, and request a written admission of its genuineness. If the ad- 
mission is not ¢ven, within four days after the request, and the paper 
is proved or admitted on the trial, the expenses, incurred by the party
exhibiting it, in order to prove its genuitieness, must be ascertained at
the trial, and paid by the party refusing the admission ; unless it
appears, to the satisfaction of the court, that there was a good reason
for the ref usal, 
§ 736. In an action to recover damages for breach of a contract, the
efendant's attorney may, with the answer, serve upon the plaintifff's 
ttorney, a written offer, that, if the defendant fails in his defense, the
amages may be assessed at a specified sum. If the plaintifff serves 
iotice, that he accepts the offer, with or before the notice of trial, and
amages are awarded to him on the trial, they must be assessed accord­ 
ngly. 
§ 737. Ir the plaintifff does not accept the offer, he cannot prove it,
upon the trial. But if the dam~es, awarded to him, do not exceed
the sum offered, the defendant is entitled to recover the expenses. 
necessarily incurred by him in preparing for the trial of the question
of damages. The expenses must be ascertained, and the amount
thereof determined, by the judge, or the referee, by or before whom
the cause is tried. · 
§ 738. The defendant may, before the trial, serve upon the plaintifff's
ttorney, a. written offer, to allow judgment to be taken against him,
or a sum, or property, or to the effect, therein specified, with costs. 
f there are two or more defendants, and the action can be severed, a like
ffer may be made by one or more defendants, against whom a separate 
udgment may be taken. If the plaintifff, within ten days thereafter,
erves upon the defendant's attorney, a written notice that he accepts 
be offer, he may file the summons, complaint, and offer, with proof of
cceptance, and thereupon the clerk must enter judgment accordingly.
f notice of acceptance is not thus given, the offer cannot be given in
vidence upon the trial ; but, if the plaintifff fails to obtain a more 
avorable judgment, he cannot recover costs from the time of the offer,
ut must, pay costs from t.hat. time. 
§ 739. Where the defendant sets up a counterclaim, to an amount
greater than the plaintifff's claim, or sufficient to reduce the plaintifff's
recovery below fifty dollars, the plaintifff may serve, upon the defend­
ant's attorney, a written offer, to allow judgment to be taken against
him, for a specified sum, with coats, or against the defendant for a
specified sum, and against the plaintifff for costs. If the defendant,
within ten days thereafter, serves, upon the plaintifff's attorney, notice
that he accepts the offer, eit.her party may file the summons, complaint,
answer, and offer, or copies thereof and proof of acceptance; and
thereupon the clerk must enter judgment accordingly. If notice of
acceptance is not thus given, the offer cannot be given in evidence,
upon the trial ; but, if the recovery is not more favorable to the de­
fendant than that so offered, he will not be entitled to recover costs
from the time of the offer, but must pay costs from that time. 
§ 740. UnleBB an offer or an acceptance, made as prescribed in either
f the last four sections, is subscribed by the party making it, bis
ttomey must subscribe it and annex thereto his affidavit, to the effect
bat he is duly authorized to make it, in behalf of the party. 
TITLE X
Pa11ment of m<YTUJ1I into cowrt, and care and diapolition tluw60/. 
8Bor101' 743. Party bringing money into court is discharged.
744. General rules may regulate concerning payment into court.
745. Money to be paid to county treasurer, and securities taken in bis name.
746. Funds ; where and how deposited or invested.
747. Powers of supreme court as to tra.nster, etc., to aad investment by 
guardian, etc.
748. When other courts have like power.
749. Powers of certain officers, touching securities, etc.
750. Provisions relating to death, removal, etc., of officer.
751. Authority for payment of money by bank or trust compa.ny.
752. How county treaeurer to keep his accounts.
753. County treasurer to report annually to the court.
754. These provisions applicable in New York to the ehamberla.in. 
§ 748. A party bringing money into court, pursuant to the direction
of the court, is discharged thereby from all further liability, to the ex- 
tent of the money so paid in.
§ 744. The general rules of practice may contain regulations, con-~~­ 
cemin~ the payment of money into court, in an action, and the care
and disposition thereof, which shall govern, where provision is not 
otherwise made by law.
§ 745. Unless the court otherwise specially directs, money, paid into;;::~;':" 
court, must be paid, either directly, or by the officer who is required by
law first to receive it, to the county treasurer of the county, where the 
action is triable. Where it is paid to an officer, other than the county
treasurer, be must pay it to the county treasurer, within four days after
be receives it. In the city of New-York, he must pay it to the cham- 
berlain, within two days after he receives it. A bond, mortgage, or
other security, or a certificate or transfer of stock, taken upon the in­
vestment of money paid into court, must be taken to the county treasurer of the county where the fund belongs, in his name of office; or to 
such other county treasurer, as the court specially directs. But this
and the next eection do not prevent the court, upon the application of
a party to an action, from directing in what manner or place, money,
paid into court in the action, shall be deposited or invested. 
§ 746. Provision may be made, in the general rules of practice, for
the deposit, in a bank or trust company, of money paid into court; for 
the investments thereof in the public debt of the Unit.ed States, or of
a State, or for loaning it upon approved interest-bearing mortgages 
upon real property ; and for the trausferring or disposing, from time to
time, of the money, or any investment, or security. But the money
must be deposited or loaned in the county where the fund belongs,
where that can be done conveniently and safely, and with advantage 
t,o the partiee interested. 
TITLE III. 
§ 747. The supreme court may direct that money, paid into that
court, in an action brought therein, or a bond, mort.gage, or other secu- 
rity, or public stock, in the possession or under the control of a county
treasurer, which represents money 80 paid in, be transferred and delivered to a general or special guardian, committee, or other trustee, upon~
.bis giving, or if he bas given, security, satisfactory to the court, for the
faithful execution of his trust; or that a bond, mortgage, or other 
security, or public stock, be taken by and in the name of the guardian,
committee, or other trustee ; and be collected, invested or loaned, 88 
the court directs, or as prescribed in the general rules of practice. 
§ 748. Bach superior city court, each county court, and the marine
court of the city of New-York, possesses, with respect to money, paid 
into that court, in an action brought therein, or a bond, mortgage, or
other security, or public stock, in or upon which it has been invested or 
loaned, the power and authority conferred upon the supreme court, by
the last section. 
§ 749. A county treasurer, or other officer,()? a guardian, committee, 
, other trustee, ie whose name i1 taken a bond, mortgage, or other
ecurity, or public stock, representing money, paid into court, in an 
ction ; or to whom stock or a security, or an account, deed, voucher,
eceipt, or other _paper, representing or fel&ting to such money, is trans­
erred, delivered, made, or giveu, pursuant to law, ii vested with title
or the purposes of the trust ; and may bring an action upon or in rela­ 
ion to the same, in his official or representative character. 
§ 750. On the expiration of the official term of a county treasurer,
or where a vacancy occurs in his office, by death or otherwise, all pub­ 
lie stock, bonds, mortgages, and other securities held by him, as prescribed in this title, vest in his successor in office; and all money 
deposited, as prescribed in this title, in a bank, trust company or other
depository, to his credit, vests in, and :µiust be carried to, the account
of his successor in office. · 
§ 751. Money, paid into eours, In an action, and deposited in a bank
or trust company, to the credit of a county treasurer, shall not be paid
out, without the production of a certified copy of an order of the court,
for that purpo*5e, countersigned by the judge, by whoae direction it if 
made. · 
§ 752. The accounts of a county treasurer, with respeet to money
received b7 him, as prescribed in this title, with each bank or trust 
company, m which it is deposited, must be kept, so as to ehow, in th9
cash-books of the bank or company, and in the books of the count,:
treasurer, bi what particular action, or on what account, each item of 
money credited or charged, was deposited or paid out.
§ 753. A county treasurer, who has, in bis possession or under h~ 
control, money, bonds, mortgages, or other securities, or public stoc~
as P.rescribe<l in this title, must, once in each year, at the time pre­ 
scribed by special order, or by the general rules of practice, make q. 
report to the court, into which the money was paid, containing a statement of his accounts for the preceding year, or since the last accounj 
was rendered, and of the funds and securities under bis control, rel~~
ing to the money paid into that court, The statement must show, a, 
to each action separately, the amount on band uninvested ; the tim~
when each sum of money was received; the time, amount, and othef
description of each payment, investment, or loan ; the amount depos­
ited in each bank or trust company ; and the balance on deposit therein ; 
and also all public stock, bonds, mortgages and other securities, 1eJh' 
reaenting the remainder of the fund, -Tne statement must be accom­
panied with a certificate of the proper officer of each bank or trust 
compQ.ny, in which $ deposit is made, to the effect, that the tot,,.J
amount, stated to be remaining' on deposit, is actually in that bank o:r
company, placed to the credit of the county treasurer, in the action, 
and not mingled with any other ~count._ It the cou_rt, at a_ ny _timer
deems the security giveJ1 by tb.e coq.nty t,e~U?f3f insufficient to vrot.e~ 
the funds and securities in his hands and under his control, it must
make an order directing him to make the security satisfactory to the
court. 
§ 754. Each provision of this title, relating to a county treasurer,
applies to the chamberlain of the city of New York, with respect to 
money paid into court, in an action triable in the city and county of
New York, or with respect to money, or a bond, mortgage, or other
security, or public stock, representing money paid into court; e:lt 
where special provision, with respect ~ the same, is otherwise e 
by law. 
TITLE IV. 
Procadinga upon tM d«JIJ& "' di8abilUv of a 1JOrl71, "' tll, lrcm,lfer 0, 
hi, intereat. 
s.arioll 7£S5. Acticm ; when not to a.bate.
756. PJ'OCeedinp upon transfer of interest, or devolution ot liabillt,.
757. Id.; when sole pariy dles and action survives.
758. Id.; when one of several parties dies.
759, 760. Id.; when part of c&U.88 of action survivee. 
761. When court may order action abated.
'762. Special cases excepted.
'163. Death of party after verdict, etc. 
'7&f. Action for a wrong nol to abate after verdict, etc.
765. No verdict, etc., can be taken after a. pariy'a death.
766. Dea.th, etc., of public officer or trustee. 
§ 755. An action does not abate by any event, if the cause of actionh.cuon 
survivee or continues. -~hen 
§ 766. In case of a transfer of interest, or devolution of liability, the
action may be continued by or agaiwst the original party; unless the
court directs the person, to whom the interest is transferred, or upon 
whom the liability is devolved, to be substituted in the action, or 
joined with the original pa.rty, as the case requires.
§ 757. In case or the death of a sole plaintifff, or a sole defendant,1d
if the cause of action survives or continues, the court must, upon
a motion, allow or compel the action to be continued, by or against 
his representative, or successor in interest.
§ 753. In case of the death or one of two or more plaintifff's, or one 
of two or more defendants, it the entire cause of action survives to or 
against the others, the action may proceed in favOl' of 01' ~ the
iiurvivors. Bot the estate of a person or party jointly liable upon eon· 
tract wit.h others shall not be discharged by his death, and the court
may make an order to bring in the proper representative of the decedent,
when it is necessary so to do for the proper disposition of the matter,
and, when the liability i8 several as well as joint, may order a sever- 
ance of the action so that it may proceed separately agains\ the repreeen .. 
tative of the decedent, and against the surviving defendant or defendants. 
§ 759. In case of the death of one of two or more plaintifffs, or one
of two or more defendants, if part only of the cause of action, or part
or some of two or more distinct causes of action, survives to or against
the others, the action may proceed, without bringing in the successor 
to the rights or liabilities of the deceased party; and the judgment
shall not affect him, or bis interest in the subject of the action. Bui 
where it appears proper so to do, the court may require or to* compel
the successor, or a person who claims to be the successor, to be brought
in as a party, upon bis own application or upon the application of a
party to the action. 
§ 760. In a case specified in the foregoing sections of this title, where
such a person applies in his own behalf, the court may direct that he be
made a party, by amendment of the plea.dings, or otherwise, as the
case requires. Where an application is made by the plaintifff, to bring
in such a person as defendant, the court may direct that a supplemen­
tal summons issue, and that supplemental pleadings be made, Where 
an application is made by a. def endant, to bring in such a person, the
court may, and where the protection of the applicant's rights requires
it, must, permit the defendant to commence a cross action for that pur­ 
pose0 The cross action must be brou~ht in the same court, unless the
order otherwise specially directs. If 1t directs that the action be com­
menced in another court, the latter court may, by order, at any time
after the cross action is commenced, remove to itself the original action,
with like effect as if it had been brought therein. Unless the court
otherwise directs, the original action and the cross action must be
tried, and judgment rendered therein. as if they were one action. 
§ 761. At any time after the death of the plaintifff, or after the mariage of the plaintifff, where it affects the rights of either party, the 
urt may, in its discretion, upon notice to such persons as it directs,
nd upon the application of the adverse party, or of a person whose 
interest is affected, direct that the action abate, unless it is continued
y the proper parties, within a time specified in the order, not less than
ix months, nor more than one year, after the granting thereof. 
~e foregoing provisions of this title do not apply to a case, 
h d 
· ere special provision is otherwise ma e by law.
§ 763. Ir either party to an action dies, after an accepted offer to 
allow judgment to be taken, or after a verdict, report, or decision, or
an interlocutory judgment, but before final judgment is entered, the
court must enter final judgment, in the names of the original parties; 
unless the offer, verdict, report, or decision, or the interlocutory judg­
ment, is set aside. 
§ 764. After verdict, report, or decision, in an action to recover dam­
{ages for &"personal injury, the action does not abate by the death of 8. 
jparty, unless the verdict, report, or decision is finally set aside. Until 
iit is finally set aside, the subsequent proceedings, including an appeal
from an order setting it aside, or from a judgment or order reversing
or setting aside a judgment entered thereupon, a.re the same, as in a
~ase where the cause of action survives. 
§ 765. This title does not authorize the entry of a judgment against
party, who dies before a verdict, report, or decision is actually ren- 
ered against him. In that case the verdict, report, or decision is abso- 
utely void. 
§ 766. Where an action or special proceeding is authorized or directed
by law, to be brought by or in the name of a public officer, or by a
receiver, or other trustee, appointed by virtue of a statute, bis death or 
removal does not abate the action or special proceeding; but the same
may be continued oy his successor, who must, upon his application, or
that of a party interested, be substituted for that purpose, by the order 
of the court, a copy of which must be annexed to the judgment-roll. 
~/ oti<>m and orders geru,rally.
TITLE V. 
8BCTioll' 767. Definition of a.n order.
768, Id. ; of a motion.
769. ?rlotions in supreme court; where to be bea.rd.
770. Motions in New York city.
771. In absence of judge, motion may be transferred to another jniige.
772, 773. What judges may make orders out of court, without notice.
774. Review of order made by county judge.
775. When stay of proceedings not to exceed twenty days.
776. Bubsequent application for order, after denial, etc., of prior applica- 
tion.
777. Id. ; as to application for judgment.
778. Penalty for violating last two sections.
779. Costs of a motion ; how collected. 
§ 767. A direction of a court or judge, made, as prescribed in this
act, in an action or special proceeding, must .be in writing, unless 
otherwise specified in the particular case. Such a direction, unless it 
u, contained in a judgment, is an order. 
§ 768. An application for an order is a motion.
§ 769. A motion, upon notice, in an action in the supreme court, 
lD.nst be made within the judicial district, in which the action is triable, or in a county adjoining that in which it is triable; except that 
where it is triable in the first judicial district, the motion must be
made in that district ; and a motion, upon notice, cannot be made in
that district in an action triable elsewhere. But this section does not
apply to a case, where it is specially prescribed by law that a motion
may be made in the county, where the applicant, or other person to be
affected thereby, or t.he attorney, resides. 
§ 770. In the first judicial district, a motion which elsewhere must
be made in court, may be made to a judge out of court, except for a
new trial on the merits. 
§ 771. Where notice of a motion is given, or an order to show cause
is returnable, before a judge, out of court, who, at the time fixed for 
the motion, is or wiU be absent, or unable, for any other cause, to hear
it, the motion may be transferred, by his order, made before or at that 
time, or by the written stipulation of the attorneys for the parties, to
another judge, before whom it might ha.ve been originally made. 
§ 772. Where an order, in an action, may be made by a judge of the
court, out of court, and without notice, and the particular judge is not. 
JBpecially designated by law, it may be made by any jodge of the court,
!in any part of the State ; or, except to stay proceedings after verdict, 
fiport, or decision by a justice of the Supreme Court, or by a judge of
superior city court within the city wherein his court is located, or by 
the county judge of the county where the action is triable, or in which
rthe attorney for the applicant resides. Where such an order grants a 
~
ovisional remedy, it can be vacated only in the mode specially pre­
ribed by law; in any other case, it may be vacated or modified, 
thout notice, by the judge who made it, or, upon notice, by him, or
y the court. 
§ 778. The limitation, contained in the last section, of t.be county
~udges who may make an order, does not apply to a case where it is 
}Prescribed in this act, in general words, that a particular order may be
::n,.ade by a county judge or by any county judge. 
§ 774. An order, made by a judge of a court, other than the court in
which the action is pending, may be reviewed in the same manner, as 
if it was made by a judge of the court, in whieh ihe action is pending. 
§ 775. An order to stay proceedings in an action, for a longer time than
twenty days, shall not be made by a judge, out of conrt, except to stay
proceedings under an order or judgment appealed from, or where it is
made upon notice of the application, io the ad verse party, or in cases
where special provision is otherwise made by law. 
§ 776. If an application for an order, made to a judge of the court,
or to a county judge, is wholly or partly refused, or granted condition­ 
ally, or on terms; a subsequent application, in reference to the same
matter, and in the same stage of the proceedings, shall be made only 
to the same judge, or to the court. If it is made to another judge, out
of court, an order granted thereupon must be vacated by the judge
who made it ; or, if he is absent, or otherwise unable to bear the appli­ 
cation, by any judge of the court, upon proof, by affidavit, of the facts, 
§ 777. Where an application is made to the court for judgment, it
cannot be withdrawn, without t.he express permission af the court; and 
a subsequent application for judgment shall not be made, &ta term
held by another jud~, except where the first application is so with­ 
drawn ; or where the directions, given thereupon, require an act to be
done, before judgment caa be rendered ; or where the fact of the 
former applica.tion is stated, and the proceedings thereupon, and sub­
sequent thereto, are fully set forth, in tbe papers upon which the appli­ 
eation is made. 
§ 778. A person making an application, forbidden by the last tw. sections, with knowledge of the previous application, shall be punished
by the court, for a contempt. 
§ 779. Where costs af a motion, directed by an order to be paid,
are not paid within the time fixed for that purpose by the order, or, 
if no time is 80 fixed, within ten dars after service of a copy of the
order, all proceedings on the pe.rt o the party required to pay them,
except to review or vacate the order, a.re stayed, without further diree­
tion of the court, until the payment thereef But the adverse party 
may; at 1iis election, waive the stay of ~ngs. Where the uder 
directs that the eosts of the motion abide the event of the ac1ion, er
where costs of a motion, a.warded by an order, have ~ been ooUeoted,
when final judgment is entered, they may be taxed, as part of the 
costs of the action, or set off against coeta awa.rded to the adveme 
party, as the case requires.
TITLE X
A 1t1'1ct.B 1. General regulations reepecting time.
2. Preferred and defel-red causes.
8. Service of papers.
4. Discevery of books and papera,
5. General reguletlone respecting bonds and undertak.inga. 
6. Other matters. 
TITLE VI. 
j{iM,e~ practice regulation,. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
0UBRAL RBOULA.TION8 RB8PBCl'llfG Tno. 
~ow 780. N otiee of motion, to be eight days.
781. Row time enta.rr«f, before ite expir&tion.
782. Copy of a.8idav1t must be served.
78a. Relief, after time h88 expired.
784. When time cannot be extended.
785. Qualification of last section.
786. o .. ders in certain actions; bow published.
787. Time for publication of notiee; how computed.
788. 1'ime fol' doing any a.et ; how computed. 
§ 780. Where special provision is not otherwise made by law, or by
the general rules of practice, if notice of a. motion, or of any other 
proceeding in an action, before a court or a judge, is necessary, it must,
if personally served, be served !l,~~JtlK!!t d~.s before the time 
a.ppoiuted for the hearing; unless''t'necourt or a jiidgethereof, upon an
affidavit showing' grounds therefore, makes an order to shew cause, why
the application should not be grant.ed; and, in the order, directs that
service thereof, less than eight days before it is returnable, be sufficient. 
§ 781. Where the time, within which a proceeding in an action aftelHow
its commencement, must be taken, has begun to run, and has not ex 
pired'. it may be enlarged, upon an affidavit showing grounds therefore,
by the court, or by a. judge authorized to make an order in the action. 
§ 782. In a case specified in the last two sections, the affidavit, upon
which the order was granted, or a copy thereof, must be served with a
copy of the order ; otherwise, the order may be disregarded, 
§ 783. After the expiration of t.be time, within which a pleading
must be made, -or any other proceeding in an action, after ita commence- 
ment, must be taken, the court, upon good cause shown, may, in its
discretion, and upon such terms as justice requires, relieve the party
from the consequences of an omission to do the act, and allow it to be
done; e•cept &8 otberwi8e specially prescribed by law. 
§ 784. A court, or a judge, is not authorized to extend the time,
fixed . by la.w, within which to commence an action; or to tske an 
appeal ; or to apply to continue an action, where a party thereto has
died, or has incurred a disability ; or the time fixed by the court,
within which a supplemental complaint must be ma.de, in order to continue an action; or an action is to abate, unless it is continued by the
proper parties. A court, ~r a_judge, cann!>t allow either of those acts
to be done, alter the expiratiou of the tune fixed by law, or by the 
or er, as e case may , ror omg 1 ; excep m a case speer e m 
the next section. 
§ 785. Where a party, entitled to appeal from a judgment or order,
or to move or set aside a final judgment for error in fact, dies, either
before or after this chapter takes effect, and before the expiration of
the time within which the appeal may be taken, or the motion made,
the court may allow the appeal to be taken, or the motion to be made,
by the heir, devisee, or personal representative of the decedent, at any
time within four months after his death. 
§ 786. Where an action is brought for the collective benefit of the
creditors of a. person, or of an estate, or for the benefit of a person or
persons, other than the plaintifff, who will come in and contribute to the 
expense of the action, notice of a direction of the court, contained in & 
judgment or order, requiring the creditors, or other person or persons
to exhibit their demands, or otherwise to come in, must be published,
once in each week, for at least three successive weeks, and as much
longer as the court directs, in the newspaper, published at Albany, in
which legal notices are required to be published, and in a newspaper,
published in the county where the act is required to be done; 
§ 787. The period of publication of a legal notice, in an action or
special proceeding, brought in a court, either of record or not of record, 
or before a judge of such a court, must be computed, so as to exclude
the first day of publication, and include the day, on which the act or
event, of which notice is given, is to happen, or which completes the
full period of publication. 
§ 788. The time within which an act, in an action or special proceed­
ing, brought, as specified in the last section, is required by law to be 
done, must be computed, by excluding the first, and including the last
day; except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law. If the
last day is Sunday, or a public holiday, it must be excluded. Where
the act is required to be done within two days, and an intervening day
is Sunday, or a public holiday, it must also be excluded. 
ARTICLE 'SECOND. 
PRBFBRBBD AND DSFSRRBD CAU8B8. 
8BcrtoN 789. Preference of certain actions by the people.
790. Id. ; of criminal actions.
791. Id.; among civil actions.
792. Id. ; in mandamus or prohibition.
798. When an order is necessary.
794. When cause passed, how placed upon the calendar. 
7~5. Note of issue to state time when passed. 
§ 789. A trial, motion, appeal, or hearing, in an action by the peo­
ple to recover money, funds, credits, or other property, held Or owned
bv the State, or held or owued, officially or otherwise for, or in behalf
of, a public or governmental interest, by a municipal or other public
corporation, or by a board, officer, custodian, agency or agent of the
State, or of a city, county, town, village, or other division, subdivision, 
department, or portion of the State, which the defendant bas, without
right, obtained, received, converted, or disposed of; or to recover damages, or other compeusation, for so obtaining, receiving, paying, con- 
. verting, or disposing of the same; or the aiding or abetting thereof;
is entitled, on the application of the Attorney-General, to a preference
over any other business, at a term or sitting of any court of the State,
irrespective of its place upon the calendar. 
§ 790. A criminal action, including an appeal or other proceeding
in a criminal cause, i& entitled, under the direction of the court, to:,~
preference in the trial or hearing thereof, over all civil actions and
special proceedings, except as prescribed in the last section. 
§ 791. Civil causes are entitled to preference among themselves, in
the trial or bearing thereof, in the following order, next after the causes
epecified in the last section but one : 
1. An action or special proceeding brought hy or against the people
of the State, or by or against any State officer or board of State
officers as such, and in which the people, or such officer or board, appear
by the Attorney-General; where the Attorney-General bas given
notice, at the time of service of notice of trial or argument, of a par­
ticular day in the term on which he will move it. If the action or
special proceeding is not moved by him for trial or argument on that
day, or as soon thereafter in the same term as the court can bear it,
the other party may then move the trial or argument; otherwise it
shall not be moved out of its order at that term, except by the special
order of the court. 
2. An action or special proceeding, in which a board of officers exer­
cising powers conferred by a statute for the protection of public health,
or public or private property, or for the prevention or punishment of
violations of a statute relating to either of those subjects, or the com­
missioners of pilots in the city of New York are parties; where a
notice, similar to the notice prescribed in the last subdivision, has been
served by their attorney, at the time of service of the notice of trial or
argument. The provisions of the last subdivision, relating to moving
the trial or argument, apply to a cause within this subdivision. 
8. In the court of appeals or the supreme court, an appeal taken by
either party, in action or special proceeding other than as specified
in subdivision first of this section, where the people of the State, or a
board of State officers, are sole parties, or a State officer is a sole party,
plaintifff or defeudaut. 
4. In the court of appeals, an action, a party to which has died,
pending the action, where the pendency of the action prevents a final
settlement of the estate 9f the deceased party. 
5. In any court, an action, in which an executor or administrator is
the sole plaintifff or sole defendant; an action for the construction of, or
au adjudication upon, a wil1, in which the administrator wit.h the will
annexed, or the executor of the will, is joined, as plaintifff or defendant,
with one or more other parties; an action in which a. receiver of a
savings bank is sole plaintifff or sole defendant; and.tin the court of
appeals or the supreme court, an appeal from the decree or decision
of a surrogate's court, determining a will to be valid, and admitting it
to probate, or granting general letters of administration. 
6. An action for dower; where the plaintifff makes proof, by affida­
vit, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof, that she has no
sufficient means of support, aside from the estate in controversy. 
(10] 145 
7. An action against a. corporation or joint-stock association, issuing
bank notes, or any kind of paper credits, to circulate as money; or by
or against a receiver of such a corporation or association. . 
8. An action against a corporation founded upon a note,or anothers*
evidence of debt for the absolute payment of money. An action upon
an undertaking given upon an appeal to the court, of appeals, or to 
stay the execution on an appeal to the court of appeals.
9 An action against a sheriff, in bis official capacity. 
10. A cause entitled to preference, by the general rules of practice,
or by the special order of the court in the particular case. 
Where an issue of law and an issue of fact, or two or more other
questions of different natures, come before the same term of the court
for trial or bearing the preference given by this secti· n affects only
the order, in which the issues or questions of the same nature are to be 
disposed of.
§ 792. Where a writ of mandamus or of prohibition has been issued, 
from the general term, to a special term, or a judge of the same court,
the cause may, in the discretion of the court, or, where an appeal is
taken therein to the court of appeals, in the discretion of that court, be
preferred over any of the causes specified in the last section. 
§ 793. Where the right to a preference depends upon facts, which do
not appear in the pleadings or other papers upon which the cause is to
be tried or heard, the party desiring a preference must procure an order
therefore, from the court, or a judge t.bereof, upon notice to the adverse
party. A copy of the order must be served, with or before the notice
of trial or argument. (§.~ch an order is not appealable ; but it may be
vacated by the judge or judges holding the term, at which the pre·
ferred cause is noticed for trial or hearin~:) But. a preliminary order
is not requisite, in a case embraced withru1'ubdivision first or second
of the last section but one ; and the order, in a case em braced within subdivision sixth thereof, niay be made ex parte, and is conclusive. 
§ 794. Where an action or special proceeding, placed upon the calendar of a term of a court of record, held in the city and county of 
New York, is regularly called and passed, without a postponement by
the court, for good cause shown, it must thenceforth be placed on the 
same or a future calendar, as if the date of the issue was the time
when it was thus passed. 
§ 795. In a case specified in the last section, the party placing the
cause upon the calendar, for a subsequent term, must state, in the note 
of issue, the date of the issue, as prescribed in that section. If he
omits to do so, by reason whereof the cause retains its priority on the
calendar, the court, on the application of the adverse party, or of it.a 
own motion, may strike the cause from the calendar. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
8BRVICB 011' p il'BB8. 
Sllonoll' 796. Paper may be served personally.
797. Other modes of service.
798. Double time when served through the post-<>fflce. 
'799. When paper to be served on attorney ; when service not required. 
800. When service may be made on clerk, for non-resident.
801. Service through branch poet-office in New York city.
802. Thie article not applicable to service of summons, etc. 
§ 796. A notice or other paper in an action, may be served on a party
or an attorney, either by delivering it to him persona.Uy, orin the man- 
ner prescribed in the next section.
§ 797. Where the service is not personal, it may be made as follows: 
1. Upon a party or an attorney, through the post-office, by depositing the paper, properly inelosed in a post-paid wrapper, in the postoffice of the party or the attorney serving it, directed to the person to 
be served, at the address, within the State, designated by him for that 
purpose, upon the preceding papers in the action; or, where he has
not made such a designation, at his place of residence, or the place
where he keeps an office, according to the best information which can
conveniently be obtained concerning the same. 
2. Upon an attorney, during his absence from his office, by leaving
the paper with his partner or clerk therein, or with a person having
charge thereof. 
3. Upon an attorney, if there is no person in charge of bis office, and
the service is made between six o'clock in the morning and nine o'clock
in the evening, either by leaving it, in a conspicuous place in his office,
or by depositing it, inclosed in a sealed wrapper, directed to him, in
his office letter-box; or, if the office is not open, so as to admit of leav­
ing the paper therein, and there is no office letter-box, by leaving it
at his residence, within the State, with a person of suitable age and
discretion. 
4. Upon a party, by leaving the paper at bis residence within the
State, between six o'clock in the morning and nine o'clock in the
evening, with a ~rson of suitable age and discretion. 
§ 798. Where 1t is prescribed in this act, or in the general rules of
practice, that a notice must be given, or a paper must be served, within
a specified time, before an act is to be done; or that the adverse party
bas a specified time, after notice or service, within which to do au act ; 
if service is made through the post-office, the time so required or
allowed is double the time specified; except that service of ugf@ Qt 
trial m..~y be made, through the .post-office, not less than sixteen <lays 
-.hefore the da.y of trill, iu~lwlhag__tlie_ day ~L~~ryice. 
§ 799. Where a party has appeared, a notice or other paper, require 
to be served in an action, must be served upon his attorney. If 1 
defendant has not appeared, service of a notice or other paper, in th
ordinary proceedings in the action, need not be made upon him, unle ·
be is actually confined in jail, for want or bail. 
§ 800. Where a party to an action, who bas appeared in person, resides without the State, or his residence cannot, with reasonable dili- 
gence, be ascertained, and be has not designated an address, within
the State, upon the preceding papers, service of a paper upon him way
be made, by serving it on the clerk. 
§ 801. In the city of New-York, where a paper is served, or a return
is made, through the post-office, the deposit of the package in a branch 
post-office has the same effect, as a deposit in the general or principal
post-office of that city. 
§ 802. This article does not apply to the service of a summons, or
other process; or of a paper to bring a party into contempt; or to a
cue where the mode of service is specially prescribed by law. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
DISCOVBRY OP Boozs JJro PAPBRS. 
8BC'l'Io1' 808. Court may direct discovery of books, etc.
804. Rules to prescribe the cases, etc.
805. Petition for discovery, and order thereupon.
806. Order, when and by whom vacated.
807. Proceedings upon the return of the order.
808. Penalty for disobedience.
809. Effect of papers, etc., produced. 
§ 803. A court of record, other than a justices' court in a city, baa
power to compel a party to an action pending therein, to produce and
discover, or to give to the other party, an inspection and copy, or per- 
mission to take .a copy, of a book, document, or other paper, in his pos­ 
session or under his control, relating. to the merits of the action, or of
the defense therein. 
§ 804. The general rules of practice must prescribe the cases, in
which a discovery or inspection may be so compelled, and the proceedings for that purpose, where the same are not prescribed in this act. 
§ 805. To entitle a party to procure such a discovery or inspection,
he must present a petition, praying therefore, and verified by affidavit, 
to the court, or to a judge authorized to make an order in the action ;
upon which an order may be made, directing the party, against whom 
the discovery or inspection is sought, to allow it, or, in default thereof,
to show cause before the court, at a time and place, and upon a notice,
therein specified, why the prayer of the petition should not be
granted} and, if necessary or proper, that his proceedings be stayed
until the hearing of the application, although the stay exceeds twenty
days. 
§ 806. An order, made· as prescribed in the la.st eection,. may be
vacated, by the judge who granted it, or by the court, upon satisfactory
proof, by affidavit: 
1. That it ought not tohave been granted, or that it has been com­
plied with; or, 
2. That the party required to make the discovery, or permit the in­
spection, bas not the possession or control . of the book, document, or
other paper, directed to be produced or inspected. 
§ 807. Upon the return of the order to show cause, the court may
make such an order, with respect to the discovery or inspection prayed
for, as justice requires. Where either is directed, a referee may be 
appointed by the order, to direct and superintend it; whose certificate,
unless set aside by the court, is presumptive, and, except in proceed­ 
ings for contempt, conclusive evidence, of compliance or non-compli­
ance with t.be terms of the order. A fixed sum, not ezceeding twenty
dollars, may be added to the costs of the motion, for the fees of the
referee . 
§ 808. Where an order, made as prescribed in the la.st section, directs
a discovery or inspection, the party in whose behalf it was me.de, may,
upon proof, by affidavit, that the adverse party 'has failed 1:.9 obey it. 
and upon notice to him, apply to the court, f vr an order to punish him
for the failure. Upon the hearing of the application, the court may,
upon the payment of such a sum, for the expenses of the applicant, as
the court fixes, and upon compliance with, such other terms, as it deems 
Jnst to impose, permit the party in default to comply with the order
for a discovery and inspection; and, for that purpose, it may direct 
that the application to punish him stand over to a future time. Upon
the final hearing of the application to punish the party in default, the
court, in a proper case, may direct that his complaint' be· dismissed, or
his answer or reply be stricken out, and that judgment be rendered
accordingly; or it may make an order; st,riking out one 'Or more causesof action, defenses, counterclaims, or replies, interposed by him ; or
that he be debarred from mainta.inin$' a particular claim or defense,
in relation to which the discovery or inspection was sought. Where
the party bas failed to obey an order, allowing an inspection by the
adverse party, and requiring him to furnish a copy, or permit a copy 
to be taken, the court may also direct that the book, document, or other
paper, be excluded from being given in evidence; or it may punish
the party for a contempt ; or both. 
§ 809. A book, document, or other paper, produced under an order,
made as prescribed in this article, bas the same effect, when used by
the party requiring it, as if it was produced upon notice, according to 
the practice of the court. ' 
ARTICLE FIFTH. 
8:mo'l'loB 810~ Bonds, undertakings, ete., must be acknowledged.
811. Party need not join with his sureties; when one surety is sufficient.
812. Form of bond or undertaking; a.ffldavit of sureties; approval by 
court or judge.
813. When several sureties may Justify, each in a. smaller sum.
814. Bonds, etc., to the people or a. public officer for file benefit of a 
suitor.
815. Bonds, etc., not a.ff'eeted by change of parties.
816. Id.; to be filed. 
§ 810. A bond or undertaking, given in an action or special p,:~::=·,!;.
ceeding, as prescribed in this act, must be acknowledged or prove 
and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded.
§ 811. Where a provision of this act requires a bond or undertaki 
with sureties, to be given by, or rn · behalf or, a party or other person,
he need not join with the sureties in the execution thereof, unless the 
provision requires him to execute the same; and the execution thereof
by one surety is sufficient, although the word, "sureties," is used,,
unless the provision ex.press1y requires two or more sureties. . 
§ 812. A bond or undertaking, executed by a surety or sureties, as
prescribed in this act, must, where two or more persons- execute it, be 
joint and several · in form; ·and, except as otherwise expressly prescribed by law, it must be accompanied with the affidavit of each:;';':!~~ 
surety, subjoined thereto, to the effect, that be is a resident of, and a
householder or a freeholder within, the State, and is worth the penalty 
of the bond, or twice the sum specified in the undertaking, over all the
debts and liabilities, which be owes or has- incurred, and exclusive of 
property exempt b! law _from levy and sale. under an execution. A 
bond or undert-aking given ·by a party, without a surety, must be 
accompanied by his affidavit, to the same effect. The bond or undertaking, except as otherwise expressly prescribed by law, must be
approved by the court, before which the proceeding is taken, or a judge
thereof, or the judge, before whom the proceeding is taken. The
approval must be indorsed upon the bond or undertaking. 
§ 813. But where the penalty of the bond, or twice the sum specified
in the undertak.in~, is twenty thousand dollars, or upwards, the court 
or judge may, in Its or his discretion, allow the sum, in which a surety
is required to justify, to be made up by the justification of two or more
sureties, each in a smaller sum. But, in that case, a surety cannot 
justify in a sum less than ten thousand dollars; and, where two or
more sureties are required by law to justify, the same person caunot so
contribute to make up the sum, for more than one of them. 
§ 814. Where a. bond or undertaking has been given. as prescribed
by law, in the course of an action or special proceeding, to the people 
~~~ or to a public officer, for the benefit of a party or other person iuter­
ested, aud provision is not specially made by law for the prosecution
thereof; the party or other person, so interested, may maintain au 
action in his own name, for a breach or the condition of the bond, or
of the terms of the uudertaking; upon procuring an order, granting
him leave so to do. The order may be made by the court, in which
the action is or was pending; ~r by a superior cit.y court, the marine
court of the city of New York, or a county court, if the bond or under­
ta.king was given in a speclal proceeding, pending before a judge or
that court; or, in any other case, by the supreme court. Notice of the
application therefore must be given, as directed by the court or judge,
to the persons interested in the disposition of the proceeds. 
§ 815. A bond or undertaking, given in au action or special proceed­
ing, as prescribed in this act, continues in force, after the substitution
of a new party in place or an original party, or any other change or
parties ; and bas thereafter the same force and effect, as if then given
anew, in conformity to the change of parties. 
§ 816. A bond or undertaking, required to be given by this act,
must be filed with the clerk of the court; except where, in a special 
case, a different disposition thereof is directed by the court, or pre­
scribed in this act. 
TITLE X
S.OTioN 817. Consolidating causes in same court. 
818. Id. ; in different courts.
819. Id.; by plaintifff.
820. Interpleader by order in certain cases.
821. Dismissal of complaint for neglect to serve summons.
822. Id. ; for neglect to :proceed. 
823. Feigned issues abolished, and order for trial snbetitoted.
824. Summons and pleadings to be filed within ten days after aerrice. 
825. Papers in apecial proeeedlngs j where to be filed.
826. Publication, if no newspaper in county.
827. Special references in certain cases. 
§ 817. Where two or more actions, in favor of the same plaintifff
against the same defendant, for causes of action which may be joined, 

a.re pen ng m e same court, e court may, m i iscre ion, y
order, consolidate any or all of them, into one action. 
§ 818. Where one of the actions is pending in the supreme court, and
another is pending in another court, the supreme court may, by order, 
remove to itself the action in the other court, and consolidate it with
that in the supreme court, 
§ 819. Whore separate actions are commenced against two or more
Joint and several debtors, in the same court, and for the same cause
of action, the plaintifff may, in any stage of the proceedings, consolidate them into one action. 
§ 820. A defendant, against whom an action to recover upon a contract, or an action of ejectment, or an action to recover a chattel, is
pending, may, l\iJm~ time before answer, upon proof, by affidavit, that 
a person, not a party to the action, makes a demand against him for
the same debt or property, without collusion with him, apply to the 
court, upon notice to that person, and the adverse party, for an order
to substitute that person in bis place, and to discharge him from liability to either, on bis paying into court the amount of the debt, or delivering possession of the property, or its value, to such person as the
court directs. The court may, in its discretion, make such an order. 
§ 821. Where, in an action against two or more defendants, the plaintiff unreasonably neglects to serve the summons upon one or more of 
them, without whose presence a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had, the court may, in its discretion, upon the application of a defendant who bas appeared in the action, dismiss the
complaint as against him, and render judgment accordingly. 
§ 822. Where the plaintifff unreasonably neglects to proceed in the
action against the defendant, or one or more defendants against whom 
a separate judgment may be taken, the court may,in its discretion,
upon the application of the defendant or defendants, or any of them,
against whom he so neglects to proceed, dismiss the complaint as 
against the moving party or parties, and render judgment accordingly. 
§ 823. Eaigned. issues IA&ve bee11 &boliibod. In a case, where neither;-retgned
party can, as o ng , require a a y Jury o an issue o Jae ansing upon the pleadings, or where a question of fact, not in issue upon~r.rtJr
the pleadings, is to be tried, an order for the trial thereof by a jury!a~tu~
may be made, stating, distinct.ly and plainly, the questions of fact tot 
be tried. Such an order is the only authority necessary for the trial.]
§ 824. The summons, and each pleading in an action, must be filed 
with the clerk, by the party in whose behalf it is served, wjthin ten
AAJS aft.er the seryj~e thereof. If the party fails so to file it, the adverse:!!:~~ 
party, on proof of the failure, is entitled, without notice, to an order
from a judge, that it be filed within a time specified in the order, or 
be deemed abandoned. 
§ 825. A return or other paper in a special proceeding, where no
other disposition thereof is prescribed by law, must be filed, and an•=.. 
order therein must be entered, with the clerk of the county in which
the special proceeding is taken, if it is before a county officer, or a
judge of a court established in a city; if before a justice of the supreme
court, with the clerk of a county designated by the justice; or, if no 
de~ignation is made by him, of a county where one of the parties
resides. 
§ 826. Where a notice, or other proceeding, is required by law to be
published in a newspaper published in a county, and no newspaper is 
published therein, or to be published oftener than any newspaper is
regularly published therein, the- publication may be made in a news- 
paper of an adjoining county, except where special provision is otherwise made by law. 
§ 827. Where a provision of this act authorizes the court to approve
an undertaking, or the sureties thereto ; or to make an examination or 
inquiry; or to appoint an appraiser, receiver or trustee; it may direct
a reference, to one or more persons designated in the order, either to
make the approval, examination, inquiry or appointment, or to report
the facts to the court, for its action thereupon. And where, according
to the practice of the court of chancery, on the thirty-first day of
December, eighteen hundred and forty-six, a matter was referable to
the clerk; or to a master in chancery, a court having authority to act
thereupon, may direct a reference to one or more persons, designated
in the order, with the powers which were possessed by the clerk, or the 
master in chancery, except where it i8 otherwise specially· prescribed
by law. 
TITLE . I. - GENERAL REGULATIOMS RB8PBC1'11'9 ETl»BKCB; Al'fD. TIIII
COKPBTBNCY AND MODE OP BX.AllrllNATION OP A WITNES& 
TITLE II. - CoMPELLING -tHB ATTENDil'CB AND T&STIMONY ·op wn- 
NESS. 
TITLE III. -DBPOSITION8. 
CHAPTER IX. 
EVIDENCE .. 
TITLE IV. -DocmKBNTARY BVIDBNCB. 
TITLE v. - MISCBLLANBOUS PROVISIONS. 
TITLE I. 
6tms,al, ,.sguJ,.atum, f'68f)6d,ing· ~'·and tlUJ «>mP6"""'1/ and modd ol 
e:JXWniflation of a f.Ditnsu. 
A ll'l'IOLB 1. Competency of a witness ; evidence in pa.rticular-caaes.
i. Ad.ministration of an oath or a.tllrma.tion. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
CoKPJl'l'D~ OP ... WITinaMt; ·ETIDDCB 111' PAllTIOUUlt CADI. 
b<mo• 828. No witness to be excluded by l'eMOn of interest, etc.
829. When party, etc., cannot be examined, 
*830. Id.; huaba.nd or wife of party, etc.
831. When husband and wife not competent witnesses.
832. Conviction tbr crime; not to exclude witneN; bow con'riri.~· pN)'VfNI.
883. Clergymen, ete., not to diseloee confeeeions. .
S!W. Physieia.ns not to disclose p1'0fessional info1'Dl&tion. ,
886. Attorneys and oouneellors not to disclose communications.
836. Application of the last three sections.
837. When witness ticJt excused from testifying. ·
888. Evidence of party may be rebutted.
839. AdmiBeion by member of corporation. ·
840. Sea.l. presumptive eviJence ot consideration.
841. Presumption of death in certain cases. 
§ 828. Except as otherwise specially prescribed in thie title, a person
shall not be excluded or excused from being a witness, byreason·of his 
or her interest in the event of an action or special proceeding; or
because he ol' she is a party thereto; or the husband or wife of -a ·party
thereto, or of a person in whose behalf an action C1r special proceeding
is brought, prosecuted, opposed, or defended. 
§ 829. Upon the trial of an action, or the· hewu,.JJm,µ..:.~!i~.J!!!'P.t8, 
of a special proceeding, a party, or a person interested in the event,
or a person from, through, or' under whom, such a party or interessed 
person derives his interest or title, by 8.8!:lignment or otherwise;· shall 
not be examined, as a witness, in his own behalf or interest, or in behalf of the party succeeding to his title or interest, against the execu­
tor, administrator, or survivor of a deceased person; or the committee.
of a lunatic; or a person deriving bis title or interest from, through,
or under a deceased person or lunatic, by assignment or otherwise ;
concerning a personal transaction or communication between the wit­ 
ness and the deceased person or lunatic, except where the executor,
administrator, survivor, committee, or person so deriving title or inter­
est, is examined in bis own behalf, or the testimony of the lunatic or
deceased person is given in evidence; concerning the same transaction
or communication. 
§ 830. Where a party has died since the trial of an action, on the
hearing upon the merits of a special proceeding, the testimony of the 
decedent, or of any person who is rendered incompetent by the provisions of the last section, taken or read in evidence at the former trial
or hearing, may be ~ven or read in evidence at a new trial or hearing
by either party, subject to any other legal objection to the competency
of the witness, or to any legal objection to his testimony or any ques­
tion put to him. 
§ 831. A husband or wife shall not be compelled, or without con­
sent of the other if living, allowed to disclose a confidential commn­ 
nication, made by one to the other, during the marriage. In an action
for criminal conversation, the plaintifff's wife is not a competent wit­ 
ne-s for the plaintifff, but she is a competent witnesa for the defendant,
as to any matter in controversy; except that she cannot without the
plaintifff's consent, disclose any confidential communication had or 
made between herself and the plaintifff.
§ 832. A person, who has been convicted of a crime or misdemeanor 
is, notwithstanding, a competent witness in & civil or criminal action
or special proceeding ; but the conviction may be proved, for the pur­
pose of affecting the weight of bis testimony, either by the record, or
by bis cross-examination, upon which he must answer any question,
relevant to that inquiry : and the party cross-examining him is not
concluded, by his answer to such a question. 
§ 833. A clergyman, or other minister of any religion, shall not be 
allowed to disclose a confession made to him, in his professional char­ 
acter, in the course of discipline, enjoined by the rules ·or practice of
the religious body, to which he belongs. 
§ 834. A person, duly authorized to practice physic or surgery, shall
not be allowed to disclose any information which he acquired in attend­ 
ing a patient, in a professional capacity, and which was necessary to 
enable him to act in that capacity. 
§ 835. An attorney or counsellor at law shall not be allowed to dis­
close a communication, made by his client to him, or bis advice given 
thereon, in the course of bis professional employment.
§ 836. The last three sections apply to every examination of a person 
as a witness, unless the provisions thereof are expressly waived by the
person confessing, the patient, or the client. 
§ 837. A competent witness shall not be excused from answering a
relevant question, on the ground only that the answer may tend to 
establish the fact, that be owes a debt, or is ot.berwise subject to a civil
suit. But this provision does not require a witness to give an answer, 
which will tend to accuse himself of a crime or misdemeanor, or to
expose him to a penalty or forfeiture ; nor does it vary any other rule,
respecting the examination of a witness. 
§ 838. The testimony of a party, ta.ken at the'instance of the adverse
party, orally or by deposition, may be rebutted by other evidence. 
§ 839. The admission of a member of an aggregate corporation, wh1::{~ 
is not a party, shall not be received as evidence against the corporation,
unless it was made concerning and while engaged in a transaction, i 
which he was the authorized agent of the corporation.
§ 840. A seal upon an executory instrument, hereafter executed, ieal, 
only presumptive evidence of a sufficient consideration, which may
rebutted, as if t.he instrument was not sealed. 
§ 841. A person, upon whose life an estate in real property depends,
who remains without the United States, or absents himself, in the State
or elsewhere, for seven years together, is presumed to be dead, in an
action or special proceeding, concemin~ the property, in which his
death comes in question, unless it is affirmatively proved that he was 
&live within that time. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
A»IIIIlfISTRATIOJ.'I' OJ' Alf OATH OR AlrFIRKATIOlf. 
8Jlcr101f 842. Before whom oaths and a.ftidavits may be taken.
843. Id. ; in special cases. 
844. Id. ; without the State.
845. General mode of swearing.
846. When kissing the gospels dispensed. with.
847. When affirmation to be made.
848. Other modes of swearing.
849. Swea.ring persons not Christians.
850. Court may examine witnesses.
861. Swearing falsely in any t'orm, perjury. 
§ 842. An oath or affidavit, required or authorized by law; except an
oath to a juror or a witness upon a trial, an oath of office, and an oath 
required by law to be taken before a particular officer; may be ta.ken
before a judge, clerk, deputy-clerk, or special deputy-clerk, of a court, 
a notary public, mayor, justice of the peace, surrogate, special county
judge, special surrogate, county clerk, deputy county clerk, special
deputy county clerk, or commissioner of deeds, within the district in
which the officer is authorized to act; and when certified by the officer, 
to have been taken before him, may be used in any court, or before any
officer or other person. 
§ 843. Where an officer, person, board, or committee, has been heretofore, or is hereafter authorized by law, to take or hear testimony, or~ 
to hear or receive an affidavit, or to take a deposition, in relation to a
matter, concerning which be or it bas a dut.y to perform, the officer or
person, or a member of the board or committee, may administer an oath,
for that purpose. Where an officer, person, board, or committee, to
whom or to which application is made to do an act in an official
capacity, requires information or proof, to enable him or it to decide 
upon the propriety of doing the a.ct, he or it may receive an affidavit
for that purpose. 
§ 844. An oath or affidavit required, or which may be received, in an
action, special proceeding, or other matter, may be ta.ken, without the 
State, except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, before
an officer authorized by the laws of the State, to take and certify the
acknowledgment and proof of deeds, to be recorded in the State ; and, 
when certified by him to have· been taken before him, and accompanied
with the like certificates, as to his official character and the genuineness
of his signature, as are required to entitle a deed acknowledged before
him to be recorded within the State, may be used, as if taken and cer­ 
tified in this State, by an officer authorized by law to take and cert.iCy
the same. 
§ 845. The usual mode· of administering an oath, now practiced, by 
the person· who swears laying his 'hand upon and kissing the gospels,
must be observed, where an oath is administered, except as otherwise 
specially prescribed in -this article. · ·
§ 846. The oath must be administered in the following form, to a 
person who so desires, the laying of the hand upon and kissing the
fiO~pels being o~tted: "Yo? do swear, in the presence of t~e ever- 
livmg God". While so sweanng;·be may or may not bold up his hand,
at bis option. 
§ 847. A solemn declaration or affirmation, in the following form,
must be administered to a person who declares that he bas conscien­ 
tious scruples against taking an oath, or swearing in any form: "You
do solemnly, sincerely, and truly, declare and affirm". 
§ 848. If the court or· officer, before 'which or whom a person is
offered as a witness, is satisfied, that any peculiar mode ef. swearing,
in lieu of, or in addition to laying the hand upon e.nd kissing the gos­ 
pels, is in his opinion, more solemn and obligatory, the court or officer
may, in its or his discretion, adopt that mode of swearing the witness. 
§ 849. A person, believing in a religion other than the Christian,
may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies, if any, of his
religion, instead of as prescribed in section eight handred and foriy­
five or section eight hundred and fody--six of this act. 
§ 850. The court or officer may examine an infant, or a person
apparently of weak intellect, produced before it or him, as a witness,
to ascertain ltis capacity and ·the extent ·of bis knowledge; and may
inquire of· a. person, produced as a witness, what peculiar ceremonies
in swearing he deems most obligatory. 
§ 851. A person swearing, affirming or declaring, in any form, where
an oath is authorized by law, is lawfully sworn, and is guilty of perjury, 
in a case where he would be guilty of the same crime, if he bad SW(\l'Q 
by laying his hand upon and kissing the gospels. 
TITLE II. 
Compelling t~ at!Amd<Jnc8 and tatimong o/ a toitnea 
s.cmo• 86t. Mode of serving- mbpama issued out of a court.
853. Penalty fordi8obedience. · 
854. Bubpama to be issued by judge, etc, 
855. Penalty for disobeying subpcana ; w&1TR.Dt for witneall 
856. When witnese to be imprisoned.
857. Contents of w&rnmt.
858. To whom directed; how •ecuted. ·
SW. Qualification of preceding eection-.
860. Witness exempt from an-est.
861. When to be· dUJCha.rged from arreat. 
862~ By .whom witne88 may be discharged
863. Arrest, when void; penalty.
864. Sheriff' not to be liable, unless affidavit is made. 
866. Application of foregoing pl'ovisione to judgments.
866. Recorda·not to be removed bf·virtue or subpceua,
867. Id.; books of account.
86S. Books, etc., of corporation, how produced.
869. When personal attendance not required by aupcena duees tecum • 
§ 852. A aubpcena, issued out of the court, to compel theattendanee of 
& witne88,. and, where the subpoena so requires, to .compel him to .bring
with him a book or paper, must be served as follows: 
. 1. The ioriginal subpcana mDSt be exhibited to the witness. 
2. A copy of the eubpcena, or a ticket containing its subetanee, must 
be delivered to him. · 
3. The fees allowed by law, for travelling to, and returning .from, 
the place where he is required to attend, and for one day's attendance,
must be paid or tendered to. him. 
§ 853. A person so subpceuaed, who- fails, without reasonable excuse,
to obey the subpoena, or a person who fails, without reasonable excuse,~~~ 
to obey an order, duly served upon him, made by the court or a judge,
in an action, before or after. final judgmeut therein, requiring him to
attend, and be examined, or so to attend, and bring with him a book
Qr a paper, is liable, in addition to punishment for -contempt, for the
damages sustained by the party aggrieved in consequence of the failure,
and ifty dollars in addition thereto. Those sums may be recovered
in one action, or in separate actions. If be is a party to the action in
which he was aubposnaed, the court may, as an additional punishment,
strike out his pleading. 
§ 854. Where a judge, or an arbitrator, referee, or other person, or a 
board or committee, has been heretofore, or is hereafter expressly
authorized by law, to hear, try, or determine a. matter; or to do any 
other act in an official capacity, in relation to which proofs may be 
~a.keu, or the attendance of a person as a witness may be required ; or 
to require a. person to attend, either before him or it, or before another
judge, or officer, or a person designated ina commission issued by a
court of another State or country, to give testimony, or to have his
deposition taken, or to be examined; a subpoena may be issued, by
and under the hand of the judge, arbitrator, referee, or other person, or 
the chairman, or a ma-jority, of the board or committee, requiring the
person to attend; and also, in a-proper case, to bring with him a book
or a paper. The subpoena must be served, as prescribed in section 
eight hundred and fifty-twoof this act. This section does not apply
to a matter arieiug; or. an act. to be done, in an action in a court of
record. 
§ 855. A person who is duly eubpoenaed, as prescribed in the last section, .must obey the subpoena, . If he fails so .to do, without a reasonable excuse, be is liable, .in addition to any other punishment which
may be lawfully inflicted therefore, for the damages sustained by the
person aggrieved, in consequence of the failure, and fifty dollars in
addition thereto, to be recovered as prescribed in section eight hundred and fifty-three of this act. If he fails to attend, the person
issuing the subpoena. if he is a judge of a court of record or not of
record, or if not, then any judge of such a court, upon proof by affi- 
davit of the failure to attend, must issue a warrant to the sheriff of
the.county, commanding him to. appreheud the defaulting witneaa, 
a.nd . bring him . before the officer, person, or body,, before whom or 
wmch. hi.a. attewia.nee wa.e required. 
157 
§ 856. If the person enbpcenaed and attending or brought as pre­
scribed in the last section, beforo an officer or other person or a body 
refuses without reasonable cause to be examined, or to answer a legal
and pertinent question, or to produce a book or paper, which he was 
directed to brin~ by the terms of the subpoena, or to subscribe his
deposition after 1t has been correctly reduced to writing, the person
issuing the subpeena, if he is a judge of a court of record, or not of
record, may forthwith, or if be is not, then any judge of such court
may upon proof by affidavit of the facts by warrant commit the
offender to jail, there to remain until he submits to do the act which
he was so required to do or is discharged according to law. 
§ 857. A warrant of commitment, issued as prescribed in the lasi section, must specify particularly the cause of the commitment; and, if
the witness is committed for refusing to answer a question, the question
must be inserted in the warrant. 
§ 858. A warrant to apprehend or commit a person, issued as pre­
scribed in this title, must be directed to the sheriff of the county where 
the person is, and must be executed by him, in the same manner, as a
similar mandate issued, by a court of record, in an action. 
§ 859. The foregoing sections of this title do not apply to a subposna
issued by a justice of the peace; or to a witness subpoenaed to attend 
a court held by a justice of the peace; or to a case where special provision is otherwise ma.de by law, for compelling the attendance of a 
witness. 
§ 860. A person duly and in good faith subpoenaed or ordered to
ttend, for the purpose of being examined, in a case where his attendance 
ay lawfully be enforced by attachment or by commitment, is privi­
ged from arrest in a civil action or special proceeding, while going to,
maining at, and returning from, the place where he is required to 
ttend. ·
§ 861. The court from which a subpoena, served in good faith, W&8 
issued, or by which an order was made, requiring a f.erson to attend,
for the purpose of being examined ; or a judge thereo , upon proof, by
affidavit, of the faete, must make an order, directing the discharge of
a witness or other person, from an arrest made in violation of the last section.
§ 862. A justice of the supreme court, in any part of the State, or a 
county judge, or a judge of a superior city court, within hie district,
has the like authority as a judge of the court, to make an order for a 
discharge, in a case specified in the last section. Upon satisfactory
proof, by affidavit, of the facts, he must also make an order, dlreeting 
the discharge of a person arrested, in violation of section ei~ht hundred
and sixty of this act, where a subpama, served in good faith upon the
person arrested, was issued as prescribed in section eight hundred and
tlfty-f our of this act. 
§ 868. An arrest made contrary to the foregoing provisions of this title, is absolutely void, and is a contempt of the court, if any, from 
which the subpoena was issued, or by which the witness was directed
to attend. An action may be maintained, by the person arrested,
against the officer or other person making such arrest, in which the
plaintifff is entitled to recover treble dam8,2'es. A similar action may
also be maintained, in a like case, by the party in whose behalf the
witness was subpoenaed, or the order procured, to recover the damages
sustained by him, in consequence of the arrest. 
§ 864. But a sheriff, or other officer, or person, is not so liable, unl881
the person claiming an exemption from arrest, makes, if required by 
t,b.e sheriff' or officer an affidavit to the effect that he was legally sub- 
pamaed or ordered to attend, and that he was not so subpeenaed or
ordered by hie own procurement, with the intent of avoiding arrest.
In his affidavit be must specify the court or officer, the place of attendance, and the cause in which he was so subpoenaed or ordered. The
affidavit may be taken before the officer arresting him, and exonerates
the officer from liability for not making the arrest. 
§ 865. The foregoing provisions of this title, relating to a person re1~!l~T?c;re­
q01re?, by an order of a court, to attend, apply, where such an attend 
ance is required by the terms of a judgment.
§ 866. The record of a conveyance of real property, or any other 
record, or document, whereof a transcript duly cersifted may by law
be read in evidence, shall not be removed, by virtue of a subpoena
dncee tecnm, from the office in which it is kept; except temporarily, by 
the clerk having it in custody, to a term or sitting of the court of which
he is clerk; or by the officer, having it in custody, to a term or sitting
of a court, or a trial before a referee, held in the city or town where
his office is situated. Where it is required at any other place, it may
be removed, by order of the supreme court, a superior cit.y court, or a.
county court, made in court, and entered in the minutes ; specifying
that the production of the original, instead of a. transcript, is necessary, 
§ 867. A person shall not be compelled to produce, upon a trial or
hearing, 8, book of account, otherwise than by an order requiring him 
to produce it, or a. subpoena duces tecum. Such a subpoena must be
served at least ey~ d~ before the day when he is required to attend. 
At any time alre:t~ e of such a subpama or order, the witness me.y
obtain, upon such a notice as the judge, referee, or other officer prescribes, an order rMieving him wholly or partly from the obligations
imposed upon him by the subpoena or the order for production, upon
such terms as justice requires touching the inspection of the book or
any portion thereof, or ta.king a copy thereof or extracts therefrom, or
otherwise. An order may be ma.de, as prescribed in this. section, by
a judge of the court, or, in a special proceeding pending out of court
before an officer, by the officer, or, in either case, by a referee duly
appointed in the cause, and authorized to hear testimony. A justice
of the peace, or other judge of a court not of record, may make such
an order in an action brought in his court, at any time after the com­
mencement thereof. 
§ 868. The production, upon a trial, of a book or paper, belonging to 
or under the control of a corporation, may be compel1ed, in like manner
as if it was in the hands, or under the control, of a natural person. 
For that purpose a. subpoena duces tecum, or an order, ~ade as prescribed in the last section, as the case requires, must be directed to the
president, or other head of the corporation, or to the officer thereof, in 
whose custody the book or paper is.
§ 869. In a. case sprdecifiedadin the last ~beecdti~n, ort~her! hatehubpc:edrenda 
dnces tecnm, or an o er, m e as prescn m sec ion eig un
and sixty-six or section eight hundred. and sixty-seven of this ac~, 
requires a public officer to attend, and bnng a book or paper under his
control, the subpoena or order is deemed to be sufficiently obeyed, if the 
book or paper i~ produced .by a subordinate officer or emp!oree of the
corporation, or m the publie office, who possesses the requisite "1D:1ow!edge to idj?t~fy it, and to testify respecting the purposes for which it 
is used. U-,Mre personal attendance of a particular officer of the corporation or public officer is required, a subpesna, without a duces tecum 
clause, must also be served upon bi~_) 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
DBPOSmOlfS, Til:D' AlfD TO BB USBD WITllllf TBB STA.TB. 
8mo.l'lo• 870. Deposit.ion of a party, etc.
871. Deposition of a witness not a party. 
872. Application ; contents of affidavit.
873. Order for examination.
87,&. Bubpcena.
875. Service of order, etc.
876. Deposition when and where to be ta.ken. 
*877. Application to vacate order.
*878. Proceedings upon such application ; new order. 
879. Deposition by consent.
880. Manner of taking and returning deposition. 
881. When to be read in evidence.
882. Proof of witness's inability to attend.
883. Effect of deposition.
884. Original affidavits, evidence.
885. Deposition to be used on motion.
886. Where wimeee may be compelled to attend. 
§ 870. The deposition of a party to an action pending in a court of
record or of a person who expects to be a party tc, an action about to 
be brought in such a court, other than a court specified in subdivision
sixteenth. seventeenth, eighteenth or nineteenth of section two of this
act, may be taken at his own Instance or at the mstance of an adverse
party or of a co-plaintifff or co-defendant at any time before the trial,
as _prescribed in this article. 
§ 871. The deposition of a person not a party, whose testimony is
material and necessary to a party to an action pending in a court of 
record, other than a court specified in subdivision sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth or nineteenth of section two of this act, or to a
person who expects to be a party to an action, about to be brought in
such a court, by a person. other than the persoa to be examined, may
also be taken, as prescribed in this article. 
§ 879. The person desiring to take a deposition, as prescribed in 
this article, may present to a judge of the court in which the action is 
pending; or, if it is pending in the supreme court, to a county judge;
or, if an action is not pending, but is expected to be brought, to a
judge of the supreme court, or of a superior city court, or to a county
judge ; an affidavit, setting forth as follows : 
1. The names and residences of all the parties to the action, and
whether or not they have appeared ; and, if either of them has
appeared by attorney, the name, and the residence or office address of
the attorney; or, if no action is pending, the names and residences 
ol the expected parties thereto.
2. If an action is pending, the nature of the action and the sub­ 
stance of the judgment demanded, and, if the application is made by
the defendant before answer, or by either party after answer, the 
nature of the defense.
8. If no action is pending, the nature of the controversy which is 
expected to be the subject thereof. 
4. The name and residence of the person to be examined, and that
the testimony of such person is material and necessary for the party
ma.king such application, or the prosecution or defense of such action, 
and, at the option of the applicant, the place where he is sojourning,
or where he regularly transacts business. 
5. If an action is pending, that the person to be examined is about 
to depart from the State ; or that he is so sick or infirm, as to afford
reasonable ground to believe that he will not be able to attend the
trial; or that any other special circumstances exist, which render it
proper tha.t he should be examined as prescribed in this article. But
this subdivision does not apply to a case, where the person to be
examined is a party to the action. 
6. If no action is pending, that the person expected to be the
adverse party is of full age, and a resident of the State, or sojourning
within the State ; or that, he has an office within the State, where he
regularly transacts business in person, specifying the place, and, if it
is in a city, the street and street number, or other designation of the
particular locality; or, if two or more persons are expected to be
ad verse parties, that each is of full age, and so resident or sojourning,
or has such an office ; also the circumstances which render it necessary
for the protection of the applicant's rights, that the witness's testimony
should be perpetuated. 
7. Any other fact, necessary to show that the case comes within one
of the last two sections, 9M'iie\JMlt tB tas ft1i8e•iea~ 11R.-tBe
caut e,e~k>n. T · 
§ 873. The judge, to whom such an affidavit is presented, must
grant an order for the examination, if an action is pending: if no 
action is pending, he must grant it, if there is reasonable gronnd to 
believe that an action will be brought, as stated in the affidavit, and that
the application is made in good faith to preserve the expected testi
mony; otherwise he must dismiss the application. Where the person 
to be examined is a party to a pending action, or is expected to be a
party to an action to be brought, the order may, in the discretion of
the judge, designate and limit the particular matters as to which he
shall be examined. The order must require the party or person to be 
examined to appear before the judge, or, except where the person to be 
examined is a party to a pending action, or is expected to be a party 
to an action to be brought, before a referee named in the order, for
the purpose of taking the examination, at a time and place therein
specified. The order must also direct the time of service of a. copy
thereof; which must be made within the State, not more than twenty,
nor less than five days, before the time fixed for the examination,
unless special circumstances, me.kin~ a different time of service necessary, are shown in the affidavit, anu that fact is recited in the order. 
§ 874. If the party or person so served fails to obey the order, his
attendance may be compelled, and he may be punished, in like manner,
and the proceedings thereon are the same, as if he failed to obey a
subpoeua, issued from the court, in which the action is pending; or, if
no action is pending, from the court of which the judge is a member. 
§ 875. A copy of the order, and of the affidavit upon which it was
granted, must be served upon the attorney for each party to the action 
in like manner as a paper in the action; or, if a party has not
appeared in the action, they must be served upon him, as directed by
the order. If no action is pending, they must be personally served
upon each of the persons,named therein as expected adverse parties. 
§ 876. Upon proof, by affidavit that service of a. copy of the order 
and .of .the affidavit hae been duly made, as directed in the order, the 
judge or the referee must proceed to take the deposition of the wit­
ness, at the time and place specified in the order. He may, from time 
to time, adjourn the examination to another day, and to another place,
within the same county. Sections eight hundred and fifty-six. eight
hundred and fifty-seven and eight hundred and fifty-eight of' this act 
apply to the examination of a party or a person expected to be an 
adverse party, taken as prescribed in this article.
§ 879. The parties to an action may stipulate, in writing, that the 
deposition of a competent witness, to be used therein, may be taken
before a ju<lge or referee, at a time and place specified in the stipula­ 
tion, either orally, or upon interrogatories, to be agreed upon in like
manner. The witness may be subpamaed to attend the examination,
as upon a trial; and the judge or referee may take his deposition, as
if an order bad been made by the court, directing it to be so taken. 
§ 880. The examination of a party, or an expected party, is subject
the same rules as if he was examined upon the trial. The judge or 
eferee, upon every other examination taken as prescribed in this article, must insert therein every answer or declaration of the person 
xamined which either party requires to be inserted. The deposition,
hen completed, must be carefnlly read to and subscribed by the
erson examined; must be certified by the judge or referee taking it;
nd, within ten days thereafter, must be filed in the office of the clerk; 
r, if no action is pending,in the office of the clerk or the county in
hich it was taken; together with the stipulation or order,under which 
"t was taken; the affidavit upon which the order was granted; and
roof of the service of a copy of the order and of the affidavit. If,
pon an examination before a referee, the person examined refuses to
nswer auy question, the referee must report the fact to the court or 
[udge, who must determine whether the question is relevant, and
whether the wituees is bound to answer it. 
§ 881. The deposition, or a certified copy thereof, may be read in
evidence by either party, at the trial of, or upon the assessment of 
damages, by writ of inquiry, or upon a reference, or otherwise, in the
action specified in the original affidavit or stipulation ; or any other
action, thereafter brought, between the same parties, or between any
parties claimin~ under them, or either of them ; or, if no action is
pending, an action thereafter brought, between the persons named in
the original affidavit as expected parties, or between persons claiming
under them or either of them. 
§ 882. But such a deposition, except that of a party, taken at the
instance of an adverse party, or a deposition taken in pursuance of a 
stipulation, as prescribed in this article, shall not be so read in evidence, until it has been satisfactorily proved, that the witness is dead,
or is unable personally to attend, by reason of bis insanity, sickness,
or other infirmity; or that be bas been and is absent from the State, 
so that his attendance could not, with reasonable diligence, be com­
pelled by eubpcena, 
§ 883. A deposition, so read in evidence, has the same effect, and
no other, as the oral testimony of the witness would have; and an 
objection to the competency or credibility of the witness; or to the
relevancy or substantial competency or a question put to him, or of an
answer given by him ; mar. be made, as if the witness was then
personally examined, and Without being noted upon the deposition. 
§ 884. The original affldavits, filed with such a deposition, or certi­
fled copies thereof, are presumptive evidence of the facts therein con­
tained to show a compliance with the provisions of this article. 
§ 885. Where a. party intends to ma.ke or oppose a motion in a conn 
of record, other than a court specified in subdivision sixteen, seventeen,
eighteen or nineteen, of section two of this act, and it is necessary for
him to have the affidavit or deposition of a person, not a. party, to use 
upon the motion, the court, or a. judge authorized to make an order,
in the cause, may, in its or bis discretion, make an order, appointing
a referee to take the deposition of that person. The order must be
fonnded upon proof, by affidavit, that the applicant intends to make
the motion, or that notice of a motion has been ~ven, which the
applicant intends to oppose. The affidavit must specify the nature of
the motion, and must show that the affidavit or deposition is necessary
thereon, and that such person bas refused to make an affidavit of the
facts, which the applicant verily believes are within bis knowledge.
The order may be made upon or without notice The person to De
examined may be subpcsnaed, and compelled to attend, as upon the
trial. The deposition, when taken, must be delivered to the attorney
for the party who procured the order, unless the order provides for 
different disposition thereof.
§ 886. Where a person to be examined, as prescribed in this art-icle'11V11ere 
is a resident of the State, he shall not be required to attend in an~:i~c;,:
county, other than that in which he resides, or where he bas an offic~,ro:::~r
for the regular transaction of business, in person. Where be is not
resident, be shall not be required to attend in any other county, thah'i
that wherein be is served with a subpcana, unless, for special reasons,
stated in the affidavit, the order otherwise direct& 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
l>BPosrrIOll'S, TilBll' WJTIIOUT THB 8T.&.TB, l'Oll UBB WlTBilr TBll -&r.A.T& 
8BO'l'lo• 887, 888. When commission to iMue, ete,
889. How and upon what te1"1D8 granted. 
890. Order made by jurlge.
891. Interrogatories ; how settled.
899. Id. ; to be annexed ; directions for return.
893. Commission to examine upon oral questions.
894. When open commission may issue, or depositions may be taken.
895. Last two sections not applicable to infants, etc., or foreign countries.
896. Notice of examination upon oral question&
897. Open commission.
898. Order directing depositions to be taken.
899. Before whom depositions may• taken; notice of taking.
900. Bow depoeitions ta.ken.
901. Commiesion or order to take depositions ; bow executed and re- 
turned.
902. Certificate of execution. 
903. Certificate, a sufficient return.
904. Return bf ar.nt. 
905. If agent 18 mck or dead.
906, 907. Filing disposition, etc., eo returned.
908. Commission, etc., by consent.
909. Where return to be kept ; parties may inspect it, etc.
910. When deposition may be suppressed. .
911. Depositions, etc., evidence. 
eua. When interrogatories and deposition may be in a foreign language.
913. Letters rogatory. 
§ 887. In a case specified in the next section, where it appears, by
affidavit, on the application of either party, that the testimony of one 
QI' m.ore .witn~s. not ·within the State, is material to the applicant ;
a commission may be issued, to one or more competent persons, named 
therein; authorizing them, or any one of them, to examine the witness
or witnesses named therein, under oath, upon the interrgatories*
annexed to the commission ; to take and certify the deposition of each
witness, and to return the same, and the commission, according to
.the directions giv.en in or with .the commission. The applicant, or
.any other p~ty to the action, may be thus examined. 
§ 888. Sueh & commission may be issued, in either of the following 
eases : 
1. Where a. party to an action, brought in a court of record, is in
default for want of an appearance or pleading, and the testimony is
required upon the assessment of damages, by a writ of inquiry, or
upon a reference; or.otherwise,.to enable the court to render the proper 
final judgment. ·
2. Where final judgment bas been . rendered against the adverse 
party, hi an action brought in a court of record ; and the testimony is
required, in .order. to carry the judgment into effect. 
S. Where an appeal from a final judgment, rendered in the supreme
court, a superior city court, the marine court of the city of New-York,
or a county court, or a motion for a new trial in either of those courts,
is pending; and the testimony will be material and necessary to the
applicant in the prosecution or defense of the action, if a new trial is 
~anted.
4. Where the application is made before the joinder of issue, in an 
action brought in either of the courts, specified in the last subdivi­
sion ; and there is reason to apprehend, that before issue is joined, and
an application for a commission can thereafter be made, the witness
will die, or become unable to give his testimony, or remove, so that his
testimony cannot be taken. · 
5. Where an issue of fact h88 been joined, in an action pending in a
court of record, and the testimony is material ·to the applicant, in the 
prosecution or defense thereof.
§ 889. In a case specified in subdivision third of the last section, if 
the appeal has. been taken to another court, the application must be
madeto the court in which the judgment was rendered; and an order,
directing the commission to be issued, may be granted or refused, in
the discretion of that court. In a case specified in either of the other subdivisions of that section, the application may be made to the court, 
or a judge thereof, or, in the supreme court, to the county judge of the
ceunty, where the action is triable; and it must be granted, upon sat­
isfactory proof of the facts authorizing it, unless the court or judge has
reason to believe, that the application is not made in good faith, or
unless an order for an open commission, or for taking depositions, is .
made as prescribed in this article. Notice of the application must be
given to the adverse party, unless he is in default for want of an ap­
pearance. Upon granting the order, the court or judge may, in any
case, impose such terms as justice requires. 
§ 800. Where the order is made by a judge, out of court, it must be
ente'6<ir in the office of the . clerk. It shall be granted, only in a case,
where the court would grant it, and upon .the same terms ; and it is
subject to the control of the court. 
§ 891. Unless the interrogatories, to be annexed to the commission,
164 -So lo the original. 
1 d
are sett e by consent of the parties, they must be settled, npon notice,
by a judge of the court, or, in the supreme court, by the ·county judge
of the county, where the action is triable, as prescribed in the general 
rules of practice. · 
§ 892. The interrogatories, when settled, must be annexed to the commission. Either party must be a11owed to insert therein any question, 
pertinent to the issue, which he proposes. Unless the parties stipulate
in writing, or the order granting the commission prescribes, bow it
shall be returned, the judge must Indorse, upon the commission, the
proper direction for that purpose. Unless the court or judge thinks
proper to direct it to be returned by an agent, it must be returned
through the post-office. 
§ 893. Where an issue of fact, joined in an action, is pending in the
supreme court, a superior city court, the marine court of the city of 
N ew York, or a county court, the parties may stipulate, in writing, or
the COUrt to Which, Or the judge to Whom an application for a commis- 
sion is made, may, in its or his discretion, direct, in the order, that a
commission issue without written interrogatories, and that the deposi- 
tions be ta.ken upon oral questions; or that a commission issue to take
the deposition of one or more witnesses, designated in the order, partly
upon oral questions, and partly upon written interrogatories, or to take
the deposition of one or more witnesses, designated in the order, upon
oral questions, and one or more witnesses, designated in the order, upon
written interrogatories. 
§ 894. Where an issue of fact, joined in an action, is pending in
either of the courts specified in the last section, the parties may stipu- 
late, in writing, or t.be court, or a. judge thereof, or, in the supreme
court, the county judge of the county where the action is triable, may,
in its or his discretion, upon the application of either party, and npon 
satisfactory proof, by affidavit, that one or more witnesses, not within the
State, are material and necessary in the prosecution or defense of the
action, make an order, upon such terms as it or he deems proper,
directing that an open commission issue, or that depositions be taken,
as prescribed in the following sections of this article. 
§ 895. The last two sections are not applicable, where the adverse
party is au infant, or the committee of a person judicially declared to 
be incapable of managing bis affairs, by reason of luue.cy, idiocy, or
habitual dmnkenness; or where the testimony is to be taken else- 
where than in the United States,or in Canada. Nor can the applicant 
be examined in his own behalf, as prescribed in those sections, except
by consent of the parties. 
§ 896. Where a commission is issued, to take testimony without
written interrogatories, as prescribed in section eight hundred and 
ninety-three or section eight hundred and ninety-four of this act, notice
of the time and place of the examination of a witness, by virtue thereof, 
naming the witness, must be served as prescribed in section eight hundred and ninety-nine of this act .. 
§ 897. An open commission must be directed to one or more persons,
named therein, and must authorize them, or any one of them, ·to exam- 
ine any witness who may be produced by either part.y, on or before a
day specified therein, upon oral questions to be put to the witness,
when he is produced ; to take and certify the deposition of each witness so examined ; and to return the same, and the commission, imme-: 
diately after the expiration of the time limited for the production of 
witnesses, according to the directions, given iu or with the commielion. 
§ 898 A rd di . h d . . be 
• n o er irecting t at epositions taken, must specif)
the time within which they must be taken, and the manner in which 
they must be returned. It may also contain such additional directions,
not inconsistent with the next section, with respect to the time and
manner of giving notice, as the court or judge deems proper. The
order must be entered in the clerk's office ; and a certified copy thereof
must be annexed to each deposition, or set of depositions, returned as
prescribed in the following sections of this article. 
§ 899. A deposition may be taken, pursuant to such an order, before
a person mutually agreed upon by the parties, or a chancellor, or a judge
of a court of record, or the mayor or other chief magistrate of a cit.y, or
a justice of the peace of the State or Territory, where the witness is;
who is not counsel or attorney for either party, and would not be dis­
qualified, by reason of affinity or consanguinity to a. party, or interest
in the event, from serving as a juror upon the trial of the action,
within the State. Written notice of the time and place of taking a.
deposition, specifying the name of the witness, and the person before 
whom it will be taken, must be served by the party, at whose irnstauce
it is taken, upon the attorney for the adverse party. The time for 
rving such a. notice must be, at least, five judicial days before the
eposition is taken; and one judicial day, in addition, for each fifty 
~
iles, by the usual route of travel, between the residence of the attor­ 
ey for the adverse party, and the place where the deposition is to be
ken.
§ 900. Upon the examination of a witness, without written inter­ 
rogatories, by virtue of a commission, or of an order to take deposi­
tions, the commissioner, or the person before whom the deposition is 
a.ken, must take down, or cause to be taken down, as prescribed in t.he
ext section, the substance of the wit.ness's testimony ; unless he is
irected, in the commission or the order, or required by the person
ppearing for either party, to insert in the deposition auy or all of t.he
uestions or answers, word for word. Unless the commission or order
therwise directs, the person, appearing for either party, may ask any 
uestion, which he deems proper, and the witness's answer must be 
taken accordingly, the objections thereto being reserved, without being
specified at the time of examination. A copy of this section must be 
annexed to each commission to take testimony without written inter­
rogatories, and to each certified copy of an order to take a deposi­ 
tion.
§ 901. The person, to whom a commission is direct.ed, or before whom 
a deposition is taken, unless otherwise expressly directed in the com­
mission, or in the order for taking the depositions, must execute the 
commission, or the order, as follows: 
). He must publicly administer, to each witness examined, an oat.h
or affirmation to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but 
the truth, as to the matters respecting which the witness is to be
examined. 
2. He must reduce the examination of each witness to writing, or
causeit to be reduced to writing, by a disinterested person. After it
bas been carefully read, to or by the witness, it must be subscribed by 
the witness.
3. If an exhibit is produced and proved, the exhibit, or, if the wit­ 
ness, or other person having it in his custody, does not surrender it, a
copy thereof, must be annexed to the deposition to which it relates, sub- 
scribed by the witness proving it, and numbered or otherwise identified, in writing thereupon, by the commissioner, or person taking the
deposition, who must subscribe his name thereto. 
4. The commissioner, or person taking the deposition, must subscribe
bis name to each half sheet of the deposition; he must annex a11 the
depositions and exhibits to the commission, or to a certified copy of the
order for taking the deposition, with the certificate specified in the next section ; and he must close them up under his seal, and address the
packet to the clerk of the court, at hiyfficial residence. 
ft If there is a direction, 011 the commission, or in the order, to 
return the same through the post-office, he must immediately deposit
the packet, so addressed, in the post-office, and pay the postage
thereon. 
6. If there is a. direction, on the commission, or in the order, to 
return the same by an agent of the party, at whose instance it was
issued or granted, the packet so addressed must be delivered to the
agent. 
7. Where a commission is directed to two or more persons, one or
more of them may execute it, as prescribed in this and the next 
seetlon,
A copy of this and of the next section must be annexed to each 
commission, or order to take depoeitions, authorized by this article.
§ 902. The commissioner or other person, before whom one or more 
depositions are taken, must subscribe, and annex to each deposition, a
eertifice.te, substantially in the following form, the blanks being properly
filled up:
"State" (or "Territory") "of "} 
" County" (or " parish") " of " 
88• 
" I, , do certify that , the witness, personalJy appeared
before me on the day of , at o'clock in the · 
11000, at the , in the State" (or "Territory") "of ,
and after being sworn" (or "affirmed," as the case may be), "to testify
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, did depose to the
matters contained in the foregoing deposition, and did, in my presence,
subscribe the same, and indorsed the exhibits annexed thereto. And
I further certify tha.t I have subscribed my name to each half-sheet
thereof, and to each exhibit. And I further certify that
appeared in behalf of the , and that appeared in
behalf of the . " 
§ 903. The certificate, specified in the last section, is a sufficient
return to a commission. 
§ 904. If the packet, specified in section nine hundred and one of
this act, is delivered to an a~ent, he must deliver it to the clerk, to
whom it is addressed, or to a Judge of the court, either of whom must 
receive e.nd open it, uron the agent me.king affidavit, that be received
it from the bands o the commissioner, or the person who took the
deposition, and that it bas not been opened or altered, since be so 
received it. 
§ 905. If the agent is dead, or, from sickness or other casualty, is
unable to deliver the packet personally, as prescribed in the last section, it must be received, by the clerk or judge, from the hands of any
other person, upon the latter making an affidavit, that he received it
from the agPnt; that the agent is dead, or otherwise unable to deliver
it; that it bas not been opened or altered since he received it and that 
be believes that it has not been opened or altered, since it came from
the hands of the commissioner, or the person who took the deposition. 
§ 906. The clerk or judge, who receives and opens the packet, as 
prescribed in the last two sections, must indorse thereupon, and sign,
a note of the time of the receipt and opening thereof, and immediately 
file it in the office of the clerk, together with the affidavit of the per­
son, who delivered it to him. 
§ 907. If the packet is transmitted through the post-office, the clerk,
to whom it is addressed, must 11eceive it from the post-office, open it,
iudorse thereupon, and sign, a like note of the time of the receipt and
opening thereof, and immediately file it in his office. · 
§ 908. A commission may issue, or an order to take depositions may
be made, by consent, in a case where either may be directed by the
court or a judge, as prescribed in this article. On filing a stipulation
to that effect, signed by the attorneys for the parties, the clerk must
enter an order accordingly; and thereupon the attorney for the party,
procuring the order, may insert in the commission, or indorse upon or
annex to it, or the order, the necessary directions for the execution and
return thereof, according to the stipulation. 
§ 909. A commission, or copy of an order to take depositions, with
the certificates, returns, depositions, and exhibits thereto annexed,
must remain on file in the office of the clerk, unless otherwise provided
by the stipulation of the parties, or unless the court, by a special order,
directs them to be filed in the office of another clerk. They are always
open to the inspection of the parties, either of whom is entitled to & 
copy of them, or of any pa.rt thereof, on payment of the fees allowed
by law. 
§ 910. Where it appears, by affidavit, that a depositlon bas been
improperly or irregularly taken or returned; or that the personal 
attendance of the witness, upon the trial, could have been procured,
with due diligence, by a eubpcena ; or that the attorney for either
party has practiced any fraud, or unfair or overreaching conduct, to 
the prejudice of the adverse party, in the course of the proceedings;
an order, for the suppression of the deposition, may be made by the
court, upon the application of the party aggrieved, upon notice to the
ad verse party. · 
§ 911. A deposition, taken and returned as prescribed in this article,
or an exemplified copy thereof, if the original is filed in another county,
may, unless it is suppressed as prescribed in the last section, be read
in evidence by either party. It has the same effect, and no other, as
the oral testimony of the witness would have ; and an objection to the
competency or credibility of the witness, or to the relevancy, or sub­
stantial competency, of a question put to him, or of an answer given
by him, may be made, as if the witness was then personally examined,
and without being noted upon the deposition. 
§ 912. Upon an application, made in the supreme court, a superior
city court, the marine court of the city of New- York, or a county court,
for a commission to be issued to a foreign country' if it satisfactorily 
appears, by affidavit, that the witness does not understand the English
language, the order for the commission may, in the discretion of the 
court or judge, direct that written interrogatories annexed thereto, by
way of direct and cross-examination, be framed in the English lan­
guage, and also in a foreign language ; that only the interrogatories
framed in the foreign language be put to the witnees ; and that hill
answers be taken, and the certificates be made out, in the same Ian- 
guage. Where such an order is made, it must provide for the payment,
by the applicant, to the adverse party, of a reasonable sum, fixed 
therein, for the expense of procuring the interrogatories, in his behalf,
to be translated. The judge, who settles the interrogatories, must settle
them in the foreign language, and in the En~lish Ianguage ; and, for
that purpose, he may call in the assistance of one or more experts,
whose compensation must be fixed by the judge, and paid by the applicant. When the deposition is read in evidence, it, and the interrogatories, must be interpreted into the English language, as if the witness,
being unable to speak the English language, was personally present
and testifying. 
§ 913. Letters rogatory may be issued from either of the courts speeified in the last section, in its discretion, in a case where a commission 
may be issued, as prescribed in this article, upon satisfactory proof, by
affidavit, that there is good reason to believe, that the ends of justice 
will be better promoted thereby, than by the issuing of a commission;
notwithstanding that a commission can be executed, in t.he country to 
which they are sent. Letters rogatory can be issued only to examine
one or more witnesses, upon written interrogatories, annexed thereto;
which must be framed and settled, and the depositions must be 
retumed, as prescribed in this article, with respect to the interrogatories annexed to a. commission, and the depositions taken thereunder. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
DsPOIDTIOB'S, TAIBlf WITHllf TRB &UTB, POB USll WITHOUT 'l'llll 8T.&.TB. 
8JIC'J'Iolf 914. In what cases deposition may be taken.
915. Subpeena to witness,
916. Contents of subpam&.
917. Subpama. when no commission is issued.
918. Justice of the peace ma.y subpoena witness.
919. Taking and return of deposition.
920, Pena.lty for not appearing. 
§ 914. A party to an action, suit, or special proceeding, civil or erim- 
inal, pending in a court without the State, either in the United States,
. ~ . t bt . . th lb d . hi 
or m a roreign coun ry, mayo am, m e manner prescn e m t is article, the testimony of a witness within the State, to be used in the
action, suit. or special proceeding. 
§ 915. Where a commission to take testimony, within the State, has
been issued from the court, in which the action, suit, or special pro- 
ceeding is pending; or where a notice has been given, or any other
proceeding has been taken, for the purpose of taking the testimony,
wit.bin the State, pursuant to the laws of the St.ate or country, wherein
the court is located, or pursuant to the laws of the United States if it ie
a court of the United States; the commission, notice, or other paper,
authorizing the testimony to be taken, may be presented, in behalf of
the party desiring to obtain it, to a justice of the supreme court, or a
county judge, with proof, by affidavit, that the testimony of the witness
is material to the party. The judge must thereupon issue a subpcsna 
to the witness, commanding him to appear before the commissioner 
named in the commission ; or before a commissioner, within the State,
for the State, Territory, or foreign country, in which the notice was 
given, or the proceeding taken; or before the officer designated in the 
169 
commission, notice, or other paper, by his title of office; at a time and
place s~ecified in the subpcsna, to testify in the action, suit, or special 
proceeding, 
§ 916. The place, where the witness is commanded to attend, must
county in which he resides or sojourns; or, if it is in an­ 
other county, not more than forty miles distant from his residence, or
the place of his sojourn. 
§ 917. Where an action, suit, or special proceeding is pending in a 
court of another State, or of a Territory, or of the United States, and 
proof is made, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of a justice of the
supreme court, or a county judge, as follows: 
1. That a person, residing or sojourning within the state, is a material
witness for either party. 
2. That a commission, to take the testimony of the witness, has not
been issued. 
a. That, according to the course and practice of the court, in which
the action, suit, or special proceeding is pending, the deposition of a 
witness, taken as the one applied for is required to be taken, is author­
ized, to be received in evidence on the trial or hearing. 
The judge must issue a subpoena, commanding the witness to appear
before him, at a specified time, and at a place within the county in
which the witness resides or sojourns, to testify in the action, suit, or
special proceeding. 
§ 918. Where proof is made, by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfac­
tion of a justice of the peace : 
1. That a civil action, suit, or special proceeding is pending in & 
court of another State, or of a Territory, or of the United States.
2. That a person, residing or sojourning in the town or city, in which 
the justice resides, is a material witness for either party.
S. That according to the practice ot the court, in which the action, 
suit, or special proceeding is pending, the deposition of a witness, taken
as the one applied for is required to be taken, is authorized, to be 
received in evidence on the trial or hearing.
The justice must issue a eubpcsna, commandin~ the witness to appear 
before him, at a specified time, and at a place within the town or city,
in which the witness resides or sojourns, to testify in the action, suit or
special proceeding. 
§ 919. The officer- before whom a witness appears, in a case specified
in this article, must take down his testimony in writing; and must cer­ 
tify and transmit it to the court, in which the action, suit or special
proceeding is pending, as the practice of that court requires. 
§ 920. A person, who fails to appear, at the time and place specified
in a subpoena, issued as prescribed iu this article, and duly served upon 
him ; or to testify ; or to subscribe hie deposition, when correctly taken
down; is liable to the penalties, which would be incurred in a like case,
if he was eubpamaed to attend the trial of an action in a justices court;
and, for that purpose, file officer, before whom he is required to appear
possesses all the powers or a justice of the peace upon a trial. 
TITLE IV. 
Docu,rrumta,'1'11 tmid8nc6. 
ABTICLB 1. Documentary evidence, as a substitute tor oral testimony.
2. Proof of a document executed or remaining within the Stat.e.
8. Proof of a document remaining in a court or public office of the United 
States, or executed or remaining without the State. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
l>oooJomTilT IVD>DCB, .U .l 8UB8'1'lTO'n ~- OB.l.L 'l'B8TIJ10ff 
8Bcrlo11 921. Certain official certificates, evidence.
922. Certitleate, etc., on file, evidence.
923. Notary's certificate, evidence.
924. Notary's protest and memorandum; when evidence.
925. Proof of presentment. etc., of foreign bills.
926. Affidavit of printer, etc., evidence.
927. Id. ; of service of notice.
928. Ma1Tiage certificate, evidence.
929. Book of foreign corporation; when evidence.
980. When a copy thereof is evidence.
931. How copy to be verified. 
~ 921. Where the officer, to whom the legal custody of a paper
belongs, certifies, under his band and official seal, that be bas made 
. diligent examination, in his office, for the paper, and that it cannot be
found, the certificate is presumptive evidence of the facts so certified, 
as if the officer personally testified to the same.
§ 922. Where a public officer is required or authorized, by special 
provision of law, to make a. certificate or an affidavit, touching an act
performed by him, or to a fact ascertained by him, in the course of his
offi.cial dut.y ; and to file or deposit it in a public office of the State; the
certificate or affidavit, 80 filed or deposited, or an exemplified copy
thereof, is presumptive evidence of the facts therein alleged, except
where the effect thereof is declared or regulated, by special provision
of law. 
§ 923. The certificate of a notary public of the State, under bis band
and seal of office, of the presentment by him, for acceptance or payment, or of the protest, for non-acceptance or non-payment, of a promissory note or bill of exchange, or of the service of notice thereof on a
party to the note or bill; specifying the mode of giving the notice, the
reputed place of residence of the party to whom it was given, and the
post-office nearest thereto ; is presumptive evidence of the facts certified, unless the party, against whom it is offered, has served upon t.he
adverse party, with bis pleading, or within ten days after joinder
of an issue of fa.ct, an original affidavit, to the effect, that be bas not
received notice of non-acceptance, or of non-payment of the note or bilL
A verified answer is not sufficient as an affidavit, within the meaning 
of this section.
§ 924. In case of the death or insanity of a notary public of the 
Stat.e, or of his absence or removal, 80 that his personal attendance, or
his testimony, cannot be procured, in any mode prescribed by law, his
origiual protest, under his hand and official seal, the genuineness 
thereof being first duly proved, is presumptive evidence of a demand
of acceptance, or of payment, therein stated; and a note or memoran- 
171 
· 
dum, personally made or signed by him, at the foot of a protest, or in
a regular register of official acts, kept by him, is presumptive evidence
that a notice of non-acceptance or non-payment was sent or delivered,
at the time, and in the manner, stated in the note or memorandum. 
§ 925. Proof of the presentment, for acceptance or payment, of a 
proruissory note or bill of exchange, payable in another State, or in a
Territory, or foreign country, or of a protest of the note or bill, for nonacceptance or non-payment, or of the service of notice thereof, ou a
party to the note or bill, may be made, in any manner authorized by
the laws of the State, Territory, or county, where it was payable. 
§ 926. The affidavit of the printer or publisher of a newspaper, pub­
lished within the State, or of his foreman or principal clerk, showing 
the publication of a notice or other advertisement, autherized or
required, by a law of the State, to be published in that newspaper,
annexed to a printed copy of the notice or other advertisement, may 
be read in evidence; and is presumptive evidence of the publication,
and, also, of the matters stated therein, showing that the deponent is
authorized to make the affidavit. But this section does not apply to a
case, where the affidavit is required by Jaw to be filed, unless it has
been duly filed; or to a case, where the mode of proving a publication
is otherwise specially prescribed by law. 
§ 927. Where it is necessary, upon the trial of an action, to· prove the
service of a notice, an affidavit, showing the service to have been made 
by the person making the affidavit, is presumptive evidence of the
service, upon first proving that he is dead or insane, or that his per­
sonal attendance cannot be compelled, with due diligence. 
§ 928. An original certificate of a marriage, within the State, made
by the minister or magistrate by whom it was solemnized ; the origi­
nal entry thereof, made, pursuant to law, in the office of the clerk of & 
city or a town within the State; or a copy of the certificate, or of the
entry, duly certified, is presumptive evidence of the marriage. 
§ 929. Where a party wishes to prove an act or transaction of a for­
eign corporation, the book or books of the corporation may be used for 
that purpose, as presumptive evidence, whether any or all of the 
t• t b f th ti 
par res are or are no mem ers o e corpora ion. 
§ 930. If an original book is not produced at the trial, as prescribed
in the last section, a copy thereof, or of an entry therein, verified as
prescribed in the next section, may be used, with like effect as the
original book; provided that the party, intending to use the copy,
gives the adverse party at least ten days' notice of his intention, speci­
fying briefly the nature of tbe evidence proposed to be given. But
this and the next section do not apply, where the foreign corporation
is a party to the action, and seeks to prove its own act or transaction,
in its own behalf. 
§ 931. The copy must be verified by the deposition, taken as pre­
scribed by law, or the oral testimony, taken at the trial, of the person 
who made it, or of a person who has examined and compared it with
the original book, or the entry therein. The witness must testify that
the copy produced is correct; that he made it, or compared it with the
original ; and that he then knew that the original book so copied, or
containing the ent.ry, was the book of the corporation; or that it was
then acknowledged to him to be such, bv an officer or receiver of the
corporation, or a person having the custody thereof, naming the person
who made the acknowledgment; and he must specify where, and in
whose custody, the original was then kept. 
-, 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
Paooz OI' .&. DocuxuT, BXBCUTBD oa u1u.umro WITIII1' TRB Su.TB. 
8BC'l'ION 932. Statutes, etc.; how proved.
9".-3.1. Copies of records and papers in certain offices, presumptive evidence.
934. Id.; of papers filed with town clerk.
935. Conveyance, when acknowledged, or record, or transcript of record, 
evidence.
936. Such evidence may be rebutted.
937. What instruments may he acknowledged.
938. Justice's docket and transcript evidence before him.
939. Transcript from justice's docket, evidence generally.
940. Other proof of proceedings before justice.
941. Charter, ordinances, etc., of citiee and villagee, 
§ 932. A statute or joint resolution, passed by the Legislature of the
State, may be read in evidence from a. newspaper, designated as pre- 
. scribed by law, to publish the same, until six months after the close of
the seseion a.t which it was passed; a.nd at any time, from a volume
printed under the direction of the Secretary of State. 
§ 933. A copy of a paper filed, kept, entered, or recorded, pursuant
to law, in a public office of the State, the officer having charge of 
which has,-purauant to law, an official seal; or with the clerk of a court
of the State , or wi t.b the clerk or secretary of either house of the legis- 
. Jature, or of any other public ·body or public board created by autliority of a .law of the State, and having pursuant to law, a seal; or a 
transcript from a record kept pursuant to law in such a public office
or by such a clerk or ,secretary, is evidence, as if ihe original was pro- 
. dueed, But to entitle it to be used in evidence, it must be certified by
the clerk of the court, under bis hand and the seal of the court ; or by 
the officer having the custody of the original, or his deputy or clerk,
appointed pursuant to law, under his official seal, and the hand of the
person certifying; or by the presiding officer, secretary or clerk of the 
,poblic-ood.y or boerd, appointed pursuant .to Jaw, under his hand, and
except where it is certified by the clerk or secretary of either house of 
the Iegislature, under the official seal of the body or board. 
§ 934. A copy of a paper filed, pursuant to law, in the office of a.
town clerk, or a transcript. from a record kept therein, pursuant to law,
certified by the town clerk, is evidence, with like effect as the original. 
§ 935. A conveyance, acknowledged or proved, and certified, in the
manner prescribed by law, to entitle it .to be recorded in the county 
where it is offered, is evidence, without further proof thereof. Except 
a8 Otherwise Specially prescribed by law, the record Of 8. conveyance, 
duly recorded, within the State, or ,i. trauscript thereof, duly certified,
. id "th lik ~ t h . . l 
18 evi ence, wi 1 e enec as t e ongma conveyance.
§ 936. The certitioat,e of the acknowledgment, or of the proof of a 
con veya.nce, or the record, or the transcript of the record, of such a eonveyance, is not couclusive ; and it may be rebutted, and the effect 
thereof may becoutested, by a party affected thereby. If it appears
that the proof was taken upon the oath of an interested or incompetent witness, the conveyance, or the record or transcript thereof, shnll 
· not be received in evidence, until its execution. is established by other
·eompetent proof. 
§ 937. Any Instrument, except a promissory note, a bill of exchange,
or a las~ will, ma.y be acknowledged, or proved, and certified, in the 
manner prescribed by law for taking and certifying the acknowledg­
ment or proof of a conveyance of real property; and thereupon it is 
evidence, as if it was a conveyance of real property.
§ 938. The docket-book of a justice of the peace, within the State, 
or a transcript thereof, certified by him, is evidence before him, of any
matter required by law to be entered by him t.herein. 
§ 939. A transcript from the docket-book of a justice of the peace,
within the State, subscribed by him, and authenticated, by a certifi­ 
cate of the clerk of the county in which the justice resides, under his
hand and official seal, to the effect, that the person, subscribing the 
transcript, was, at the date of the judgment therein mentioned, a jus­
tice of the peace of that county ; and that the clerk is acquainted with
his handwriting, and verily believes that the signature to the trans­
cript is genuine; is evidence of any matter stated in the transcript,
which is required by law to * entered by the justice in his docket-book. 
§ 940. The proceedin~s in an action brought, or a special proceeding
instituted, before a. justice of the peace, witbin the State, may also be
proved by the oath of the justice. In case of his death or absence,
they may be proved by the original minutes of the proceedings kept
by him, pursuant to law, accompanied with proof of his handwriting-;
or by a copy of the minutes, swom to, by a competent witness, as hav­
ing been compared with the original entries, with proof that those
er.tries were in the handwriting of the justice. 
§ 941. An act, ordinance, resolution, by-law, rule, or proceeding of
the common council of a city, or of the board of trustees of an incorporated village,orof a board of supervisors, within the State,maybe read in 
evidence, either from a copy thereof, certified by the city clerk, vil­
lage clerk, clerk of the common council, or clerk of the board of super­
visors ; or from a volume, printed by authority of the common council 
of the city, or the board of trustees of the village, or the board of
supervisors. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
PBoo• ol' .a. DoculrlmT, BJDIAINING m A Comrr OB PUBLro ()n,ca ol' TD UlllTIID 
Sr.A.TBS, OB B1IICUTBD OB IUIIUilfillG WITHOUT '1'118 ST.A.TB. 
8Bano11 942. Printed copies of laws of another Sta.te, etc.
948. Copies of records of United States court.a.
944. Id. ; of documents on file in department.a of United Sta.tea. 
946. Record of bill of sale, etc., of vessels.
946. Conveyance of land without the Sta.t.e. ~
947. Exemplification of record of conveyance of 111.nd without the Sta.te.
948. Tr&D8Cl'ipt of docket, et.c., of Justice of adjoining Sta.t.e.
949. Id. ; how authenticated.
950. Other proof.
951. Proof may be rebutted.
952. Copies of records of courts ot foreign countries ; how authenticated.
958. Other proof.
954. This article doea not declare eft'ect of record, etc. 
t 956. Judgments in Canada, pre&umJltive evidence only.
956. Documents Crom foreign countnea J how authenticated. 
§ 942. A printed copy of a statute, or other written law, of another
State, or of a territory, or of a foreign country, or a printed copy of a
proclamation, edict, decree, or ordinance, by the executive power
thereof, contained in a book or publication, purporting or proved to
have been published by the authority thereof, or proved to be com- 
monly admitted, as evidence of the existing law, in the jndicial tribunals thereof, is presumptive evidence of the statute, law, proclamation, edict, decree, or ordinance. The unwritten or common law of 
another State, or of a territory, or of a foreign country, may be
proved, as a fact, by oral evidence. The books of reports of cases,
adjudged in the courts thereof, must also be admitted, as presumptive
evidence of the unwritten or common law thereof. 
§ 943. A copy of the record, or any other proceeding, of a. court of
the United States, is evidence, when certified by the clerk or officer, in 
whose custody it is required by law to be.
§ 944. A copy of a record or other paper, remaining in a depart- 
ment of the government of the United States, is evidence, when certified by the bead, or acting chief officer, for the time being, of that
department; or when certified by the officer in whose charge it is,
pursuant to a statute of the United States, or otherwise in accordance
with a statute of the United States, relating to certifying the same.
The record of the observations of the weather, taken under the direction of the signal service of the United States, when certified by the
cfficer in charge thereof. at the fla.ce where they were taken and are
kept, is presumptive evidence o the matters of fact stated therein. 
§ 945. 1.'he record of a bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or con­
veyance of a vessel, belonging to a port or place, within the United
States, recorded in the office of the collector of customs, where the vessel is registered or enrolled, which was acknowledged or proved, before 
it was recorded, in like manner as a deed to be recorded within the
State ; or a transcript of such a record, duly certified by the collector; 
is evidence, with the like effect as the original.
§ 946. A conveyance of real property, situated without the State, 
acknowledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be 
recorded within the county wherein it is offered in evidence, is evidence,
without further proof thereof, as if it related to real property situated 
within the State. A conveyance of real property, situated within
another State, or a Territory of the United States, which has been duly
authenticated, according to the laws of that State or Territory, so as to 
be read in evidence in the courts thereof, is evidence in like manner.
§ 947. An exemplification of the record of a conveyance of real prop- 
erty situated without the State, and within the United States, which
has been recorded in the State or Territory, where the real property is 
situated, pursuant to the laws thereof, when certified under the hand
and seal of the officer, having the custody of the record, is, if the origina.l cannot be produced, presumptive evidence of the conveyance, and 
of the due execution thereof.
§ 948. A transcript from the docket-book of a justice of the peace, 
within an adjoining State, of a judgment rendered by him; a transcript of his minutes of the proceedings in the cause, previous to the
judgment ; or of an execution issued thereon ; or of the return of an
execution; when subscribed by the justice, and authenticated as prescribed in the next section, is presumptive evidence of his jurisdiction 
in the cause, and of the matters shown by the transcript.
§ 949. Such a transcript must be authenticated by a certificate of 
the justice, annexed thereto, to the effect, that it is in all respecte
correct, and that he had jurisdiction of the eause ; and also by a certifieate of the clerk or prothonotary of the county, in which the justice
resided at the time of rendering the judgment, under his hand and the
aeal of the court of common pleas, or other county court of the county, 
175 
to the effect that the person; subscribing the certificate attached to the
transcript, was, at the date of the judgment, a justice of the peace of
that county; and that the signature thereto is in his own handwriting. 
§ 950. The judgment and other proceedings, and the justice's authority to render the judgment, may also be proved, by the production of 
t)le docket, or of a copy of the judgment or other proceedings ; and the
oral testimony of the· justice, t.o the truth and correctness thereof, and
to his authority to render the judgment. 
§ 951. The last three. sections do not prevent the introduction of evid 
ence, to controvert any of the ·proof, in relation to the validity of a
judgment therein specified. 
§ 952. A copy of a record, or other judicial proceeding, of a court of a
foreign country, is evidence, when authenticated as follows: 
1. By the attestation of the clerk of the court, with the seal of the
court affixed, or of the officer in whose custody the record is legally 
kept, under the seal of his office.
2. By a certificate of the chief-judge or presiding magistrate of the 
court to the effect, that. the person, so attesting the record, is the clerk
of the court ; or that he is the officer, in whose custody the record is
required by law to be kept; and that bis signature to the attestation is 
genuine. 
3. By the certificate, under the great or principal seal of the govern­
ment, under whose authority the court is held, of the Secretary of State,
or other officer having the custody of that seal, to the effect, that the
court is duly constituted, specifying generally the nature of its juris­
diction; and that the signature of the chief-judge or presiding magistrate, to the certificate specified in the last subdivision, is genuine. 
§ 953. A copy of a record, or other judicial proceeding, of a. court
of a foreign country, attested by the seal of the court, in which it
remains, must also be admitted in evidence, upon due proof of the fol­ 
lowing facts :
1. 'I'hat the copy offered has been compared by the witness with the 
original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of the original. 
2. That the original was, when the copy was made, in the custody
of the clerk of the court, or other officer legally having charge of it. 
3. That the attestation is genuine. 
§ 954. Nothing in this article is to be construed, as declaring the 
effect of a record or other judicial proceeding of a foreign country,
authenticated so as to be evidence. 
§ 956. A copy of a patent, record, or. other document, remaining of
record, in a public office or a foreign country certified, according to the 
form in use in t.hat country, i1::1 evidence when authenticated as follows : 
1. By the certificate under the hand and official seal of a commis­
sioner, appointed hy the Governor, to t.ake the proof or acknowledg­
ment of deeds i11 that c·om1t.ry, to the etfect, that the patent, record or
dccumeut is of record i11 the public ottice, and that the copy thereof is
correct, and certified i11 due form. 
2. By a certitirate 1111der th~ hand and official seal of the Secretary 
et' State annexed t.o th1tt of the conunissioner, to the same effect as
prescribed by law for 1 h~ autheutieution of the certificate of such a
ccmmissioner 11po11 a conveyance to he recorded within the State. The
certificate of the counuissiouer, thus authenticated, is presumptive evi­
"1er.ice that the copy of the patent, record or document, is certified
according to the form in use iu the foreigu country. 
TITLE X
8llCTI01' 957. Form of certificate to copies, etc.
958. Certificate must he sealed.
959. Qualification of last section.
960. Public OJ' corporate seal may he stamped; but private seal not.
961. Surrogates, clerks, etc., to search files, and to certify, etc.
962. Saving clause. 
§ 957. Where a transcript, exemplification, or certified copy of a
record or other paper, is declared by Jaw to be evidence, and special
provision is not made for the form of the certificate, in the particular
eaee, the person; authorized to certify, must state, in his certificate,
that it has been compared by him with the original, and that it is a.
correct transcript therefrom, and of the whole of the original. 
§ 958. If the officer, or the court, body, or board, in whose custody
an original paper, specified in the last section, is required to be, by t.he
laws of the ~tat.e, or of another State, or of the United States, or of a
Territory thereof, or of a foreign country, has, pursuant to those laws,
an official seal, the certificate must be attested by that seal. If the
certificate is made by the clerk of a county, within the State, it must 
be attested bv the seal of the county.
§ 959. The last section does not require the seal of a court to be 
affixed to a. certified copy of an order, or of a pa.per filed therein, or
entry made, where the copy is used in the same court, or before an
officer thereof; or, in the supreme court, where it is used in a circuit 
court, or a court of oyer and terminer.
§ 960. Where a seal of a public officer, or or a corporation, is author- 
ized or required bv law, it may be Impreesed directly on the paper.
§ 961. A surrogate, county clerk, register, clerk of a court, or other 
person, having the custody of the records or ot.her papers in a public
office, within the State, must, upon request, and upon payment of, or 
offer to pay, the fees a11owed by law, or, if no fees are expressly allowed 
by law, fees at the rate allowed to a county clerk for a similar service,
diligently search the files, papers, records, and dockets in his office; 
and either make one or more transcripts t.herefrom; and certif'y to the
correctness thereof, and to the search, or certify that a document or
paper, of which the custody legally belongs to bim, cannot be found.
If he refuses, or unreasonably neglects or delays, to make such a search,
or to furnish such a transcript or certificate, or makes a false certificate,
he is guilty of a misdemeanor. 
§ 962. Nothing in title fourth of this chapter prevents the proof of
a fact, act, record, proceeding, document, or other paper or writing, 
according to the rules of the common law, or by any other competent 
proof. 
TITLE V. 
TITLE 1.-TRrll.8 GENERALLY; INCLUDING EXCEPTIONS AND MOTION
ll'OR A N KW TRIAL. 
TITLE II. -TRIALS WITHOUT A JURY.
TITLE III. -TRIAL JURORS, EXCEPT IN NEW-YORK AND KINGS COUK­ 
llsuBI, .lllD TBB JrlOD:S OJ' TaUJ. TBJDm0:1' • 
lbKmo• 968. Iesaes deftned , dift"erent kinda of iMuee.
964. When issues of law &rise; when U1Bues of fact arise. 
966. lll!u.es to be judicially examined by a trial.
966. Order of trial, where issues of law and of fact arise in the Mfile &etlon 
967. Bui court may direct the order, etc., of disposition of the imuea. 
178 
CHAPTER X. 
TRIALS; INCLUDING JURORS AND JURIES. 
TIE8 ; MODE OF SELECTING THEM, AND OF PROCURING
THEIR ATTENDANCE. 
TITLE IV. -TRIA.L JURORS IN NEW-YORK A.ND KINGS COUNTIBS ; MODB
OP SELECTING THEM, AND OP PROCURING THEIR A'l'TBIO>­
A.NCE. 
TITLE V.-TRIAL BY .JURY.
TITLE VI. - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ; INCLUDING THOSE RELATING 
TO BMBRACBRY A.ND OTHER ACTS OF MISCONDUCT. 
TITLE I. 
2nala gtmef'allg ; including e:,;oeptiom and motion for a f'l6tO trial. 
~OLII 1. Iesaea, and the mode of trial thereof.
i. The pl,Lce of trial. 
8. Exceptions, case, and motion for a new trial. 
ARTICLE FIBBT. 
968. What ilmuee of fact a.re triable by a jury.
969. What issues a.re triable by the court.
970. Order for tri&l by jury, of specific questions of fa.ct, when of right.
971. Id.; when discretiona.ry.
972. 1'rial of the remainder of the issues. 
•973, Mode of trial. where complaint demands altemative judgment.a.
974. Counterclaim to be deemed an action, within the foregoing sections.
976. Immaterial iesues need not be tried.
976. What iBBues to be tried before one judge ; regulation of trial in the 
supreme court.
977. Notice of trial and note of issue.
978. Order of disposition of issues at a jury term. 
979. Id.; when a jury does not attend.
980. Either pa.rty may bring iesue to tri&l.
981. What papers to be furnished on trial. and by whom. 
§ 968. The issues, treated of in this chapter, are those only which
are presented by the pleadings. · An issue arises where a fact, or a con- 
clwdon of law, i8 maintained by one party, and controverted by the
other. Issues are of two kinds: 
1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.
§ 964. An issue of law arises only upon a demurrer. An issue of 
fact arises, in either of the following cases:
1. Upon a denial, contained in the answer, of a material allegation=~ 
of the complaint; or upon an allegation, contained in the answer, that
the defendant has not sufficient knowledge or information to form a
belief, with respect to a material alle~ation of the complaint. 
2. Upon a similar denial or allegation, contained in the reply, with
respect to a material allegation of the answer. 
3. Upon a material allegation of new matter, contained in the an­
swer, not requiring a reply; unless an issue of law is joined thereupon. 
4. Upon a material allegation of new matter, contained in the reply;
unlese an issue of law is joined thereupon. 
§ 965. An issue, either of law or of fact, must be tried as prescribed
in this chapter, unless it is disposed of as prescribed in chapter sixth 
of this act. 
§ 966. Where an issue of law and an issue of fact arise in one action,
the issue of law must be first disposed of, except as otherwise prescribed 
in the next section.
§ 967. A separate trial, between the plaintifff and one or more de- 
fendants, of some or all of the issues of fact, or one trial of some or all
of the issues of law, or a change in the order of disposition of the issues, 
may be directed by the court, in its discretion. Snch a direction may
be given, in an order, made upon notice; or except where an applica- 
tion for such an order has been denied, it may be given, by t.be judge
holding the term, where those issues are regnlarly upon the calendar
for trial, either with or without the entry of an order. 
§ 968. In each of the fo1lowing actions, an issue of fact must. be tried
by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference is directed : 
1. An action in which the complaint demands judgment for a sum
of money only. · 
2. An action of ejectment ; for dower ; for waste ; for a nuisance ;
or to recover a chattel. 
§ 969. An issue of law, in any action, and an issue of fact, in an
action not specified in the last section, or wherein provision for a trial 
by a jury is not expressly made by law, must be tried by the court,
unless a reference or a jury trial is directed. 
§ 970. Where a party is entitled, by the Constitution, or by express
provision of law, to a trial, by a jnry, of one or more issues of fact, in 
an action not specified in section nine hundred and sixty.-eight of this
act, he may apply, upon notice, to the court for an order, directing all 
the questions, arising upon those issues, to be distinctly and plainly
stated for trial accordingly. Upon the hearing of the application, the
court must cause the issues, to the trial of which, by a jury, the party 
is entitled, 'to be distinctly and plainly stated. The subsequent pro­
ceedings are the same, as where questions, arising upon the issues, are
stated for trial by a jury, in a case where neither party can, as of right,
require such a trial; except that. the finding of the jury, upon each
question so stated, is conclusive in the action, unless the verdict is set
aside, or a new trial is granted. . 
§ 971. In an action, where a party is not entitled, as of right, to a
trial by a jury. the court may, in ite discretion, npon the application
of either party, or without application, direct that one or more questions
of fact, arising upon the issues, be tried by a jury, and may cause
those questions to be distinctly and plainly stated for trial accord­ 
ingly.
§ 972. If the questions, directed to be tried by a jury, as prescribed 
in the last two sections, do not embrace all the issues of fact in the
action, the remaining issues of fact must be tried by the court, or by a 
referee. 
§ 974. Where the defendant interposes a counterclaim, and there­
uron demands an affirmative judgment against the plaintifff, the mode 
o trial of an issue of fact, arising thereupon, is the same, as if it arose
in an action, brought by the defendant, against the plaintifff, for the
cause of action stated in the counterclaim, and demanding the same 
judgment.
§ 975. An issue, the disposition· of which is not necessary to enable 
the court to render the appropriate judgment, is not required to be 
tried. 
§ 976. An issue of law, or an issue of fact, triable by a jury or by
the court, must be tried at a term held by one judge only, except as 
otherwise prescribed in section two hundred ninety-seven of this
act. In the supreme court, an issue of fact, triable by a jury, must be 
tried in the circuit court; and an issue of fact, triable by the court, 01' 
an issue of law, may be tried in the circuit court, or at a special term
of the supreme court, as prescribed in the general rules of practice. 
§ 977. At any time after the joinder of issue, and at leyt fourteen
jduA.before the commencement of the term, either party may serve a 
notice of trial. The party serving the notice must file with the clerk
a note of issue, stating the title of the action ; the names of the attor­
neys ; the time when the last pleading was served ; the nature of the
issue, whether of fact or of law ; and, if an issue of fact, whether it is
triable by a jury, or by the court, without a jury. The note of issue 
~ust be filed, at le11t twelvt 111,1 -_,fore the ·commencement of the
[term. The clerk must thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar, 
according to the date of the issue. The clerk must prepare the calen- 
dar and have· the necessary copies ready for distribution at least five
days before the commencement of the term. In the city e.nd county of 
New York, where a party has served a notice of trial, and filed a note
of issue, for a term, at which the cause is not-tried, it is not necessary
for him to serve a new notice of trial, or file a new note of issue for a
succeeding term ; and the action must remain on the calendar until it
is disposed of. 
§ 978. The issues on the calendar must be arranged by the clerk, in
the followrng order : · 
1. Issues of fact.
2. Issues of law. 
Where a jnry is in attendance, the issues must be disposed of iu the
same order ; unless, for the convenience of parties, or the dispatch of
business, the judge holding the term otherwise directs. 
§ 979. Where a.jury is not in attendance, issues of law have a preference over issues of fact ; unless the judge holding the term otherwise 
directs.
§ 980. Either party, who has served the notice, may bring the issue 
to trial; and, in the absence of the adverse party, unless the judge
holding the term, for good cause, otherwise directs, may proceed with 
the cause, and take a dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict, decision,
or judgment, as the case requires. (4U inquest, for want of an affidavit of merits, cannot be taken where the answer is verified/ 
§ 981. Where the issue is brought to trial by the pla.ii1titf, he must
furnish the court with copies of the summons and pleadings, and of 
the offer, if any has been made. Where the issue is brought to trial
by the defendant, and the plaintifff does not furnish those papers, they 
must be furnished by the defendant. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
THB PLACB OF TRIAL. 
8:scnolf 982. Certain actions to be tried, where the subject thereof' is situa.t.ed..
983. Other actions, where the cause thereof arose.
984. Other actions, according to the residence of the parties.
985. Place of trial, if proper county not designated. 
986. Defendant may demand change ; proceedings thereupmL
987. When court may change the place of trial.
988. Effect of changing the place of trial.
989. Effect of order changing place of trial.
990. Issues of law, where triable. 
991. This article appliea.ble only to the supreme court. 
§ 982. Bach of the following actions must be tried in the connty, tiCertaln 
which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated: a 
action of eject.ment; for the partition of real property; for dower;
foreclose a mortgage upon real property, or upon a chattel real ; to com 
pel the determination of a claim to real property; for waste; for 
nuisance ; or to . procure a judgment, directing a, conveyance of rea 
property; and every other action to recover, or to procure a judgment,
establishing, determining, defining, forfeiting, annulling, or otherwise
affecting, an estate, right, title, lien, or other interest, in real property,
or a chattel real. But where all the real property, to which the action
relates, is situated without the State, the action must be tried, as prescribed in section nine hundred and eighty-four of this act. 
§ 983. An action, for either of the following causes, must be tried
in the county, where the cause of action, or some part thereof, arose: 
~. To recover a penalty or forfeiture, imposed by statute; except
that, where the offense, for which it•is Imposed, was committed on a
lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more counties,
the action may be tried in any county, bordering on the lake, river, or
stream, and opposite to the place where the offense was committed. 
2. Again~t a public officer, or a person specially appointed to exe­
cute his duties, for an act done, in virtue of his office, or for ait omission 
to perform a duty, incident to bis office; or against a person, who, by
the command or in the aid of a public officer, has done anythiug touch­
ing bis duties. 
3. To recover a chattel distrained, or damages for distraiuing a
chattel. . 
§ 984. An action, not specified in the last two sections, must be tried
in the county, in which one of the parties resided, at the commence- 
d
ment thereof. If neither of the parties then reside in the State, it 
may be tried in any county, which the plaintifff desiguates, for that
purpose, in the title of the complaint. 
§ 985. If the county, designated in the complaint, as the place of
trial, is not the proper county, the action may notwithstanding be tried 
therein; unless the place of trial is changed to the proper county, npon
the demand of the defendant, followed by the consent of the plaintifff,
or the order of the court. 
§ 986. Where the defendant demands that the action be tried in the
roper county, his attorney must serve upon the plaintifff 's attorney,
ith the answer, or before service of the answer, a written demand
ccordingly. The demand must specify the county, where the defend­
nt requires the action to be tried. If the plaintifff 's "attorney does not
erve his written consent to the change, as proposed by the defendant. 
ithin five days after service of the demand, the defendant's attorney
ay, within ten days thereafter, serve notice of a motion to change the 
'place of trial. 
§ 987. The court may, by order, change the place of trial, in either
of the following cases : 
• 1. Where the county, designated for that purpose in the complaint,
1s not the proper county. 
2. Where there is reason to believe, that an impartial trial cannot be
had in the proper county. 
3. Where the convenience of witnesses, and the ends of justice, will 
be promoted by the chauge. 
§ 988. Where the place of trial is changed to another county, the
subsequent proceedings shall be had in the county to which the chanfe 
is made, the same as if it bad been designated in the complaint, as t e
place of trial ; except as otherwise directed by the court, or provided
by t.he written consent of the parties, filed with the clerk. And the
clerk of the county, from which it is changed, must forthwith deliver 
t., the clerk of the county, to which it is changed, all papers filed in
the action, and certified copies of all minutes and entries relating 
thereto, which must be filed, entered, or recorded, a.s the case requires,
in the office of the la.st named clerk. 
§ 989. An order to change the place of trial takes effect, upon th~Bl'eot
entry thereof, in the office of the clerk of the county, from which th 
place of trial is changed. But for the purposes of the place of hearin~
a motion to set it aside, or an appeal therefrom, the place of trial
deemed unchanged. 
§ 990. An issue of law may be tried in any county, within tutseuee
judicial district embracin~ the county wherein the action is triable
but after the trial, the decision and all other papers relating to th 
trial must be filed, and the judgment rendered must be entered, ·
the last named count1. 
§ 991. This article 18 applicable to an action in the supreme court only.
TITLE X 
BxosPT1on, C.A.D, il'D MOTio1' J'OB A NBW Tlw.L. 
Bmno• ffl. What rulings may be excepted to. 
993. Rel\.i..I or court or referee, to find upon fact.a may be excepted to. 
994. When and how exceptions may be ta.ken, after close of trial by comt
or referee. 
995. Id. ; du.ring the trial, or upon the trial by jury.
996. Ruling excepted to ; how reviewed.
997. Caee, when neceseary ; how made and settled.
998. When appeal, etc., may be heard without a case. 
999. Motion for new trial. upon judge's minutes; appeal from order there­ 
upon.
1000. When and how exceptions, ta.ken upon a jury trial, hea.rd at general 
term.
1001. Motion for new trial. at general term, when trial was by comt or 
referee. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
lOO'J. When motion for new trial t.o be made at special term. Restrictions
thereupon. 
1008. Application of this article t.o trials of specific questione by jury; spe­ 
cial provisions applicable thereto.
1004. Motion !or new hea.ring, after trial of speciftc queetione by a referee.
1006. lt"inal judgment, etc., not stayed, by motion tor a new trial. Motion 
may be heard afterwards.
1006. When exception not to prejudice motion for new trial.
1007. Notee of stenographer may be treated as minutes of the judge. 
§ 992. An exception may be taken to the ruling of the court or of a
referee, upon a question of law, arising upon the trial of an issue of 
fact. Except a.s prescribed in section one thousand one hundred and
eighty of this act, au exception cannot be taken to a ruling, upon a
question of fact. For the purposes of this article, a trial by a jury is
regarded as continuing, until the verdict is rendered. 
§ 998. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by a referee, or by the court,
without a jury, a refusal to make any finding whatever, upon a ques­
tion of fac'; where a request to find thereupon is seasonably made by 
either party, or a finding without any evidence tending to sustain it,
is a ruling upon a question of law, within the meaning of the last section. 
§ 994. Where an issue of fact is tried by a referee, or by the court,
without a jury, an exception to a ruling, upon a question of law, made 
after the cause is finally submitted must be taken, by fl.ling a notice
of the exception in the clerk's office, and serving a copy thereof upon 
the attorney for the adverse party. The exception may be 80 taken, at
any time before the expiration of ten dqs after service, upon the 
attorney for the exceptant, of a copy of the decision of the- court; or
report of the referee, and a written notice of the entry of judgment
thereupon. If the notice of exception is filed before the entry of final
judgment, it must be inserted in the judgment-roll ; if afterwards, it
must be annexed to the judgment-roll. In either case, it constitutes a
part of the papers, upon which an appeal from the judgment must be
heard. 
§ 995. In any other case, an exception must be taken, at the time
hen the ruling is made, unless it is taken to the charge given to the 
jury ; in which case, it must be taken before the jury have rendered
heir verdict. It must, at the time when it is taken, be reduced to 
"ting by the exeeptant, or entered in the minutes. 
§ 900. A ruling, to which an exception is taken, as prescribed in the
ast four sections, can be .reviewed only upon an appeal from the judg- 
ent, rendered after the trial ;/except in a case, where it is expreEif~
rescribed by law, that a motion-Yor a new trial may be madetbereu 
§ 997. Where a party intends to appeal from· a judgment, rendere
after the trial of an issue of fact, or to move for a new trial of such an
issue, he must, except w, otherwise prescribed by law, make a case, 
and procure the same to be settled and signed, by the judge or the
referee, by or before whom the action was tried, as prescribed in the
general rules of practice; or, in case of the death or disability of the
judge or referee, in such manner as the court directs. The case must
contain so much of the evidence, and other proceedings upon the trial, 
as is material to the questions to be raised thereby, and also the excep­
tions taken by the party making the case. If it afterwards becomes
necessary to separate the exceptions, the separation may be made, and
the exceptions may be stated, with 80 much of the evidence and other
proceedings, as is material to the questions raised by them, in a case,
prepared and settled, as directed in the general rules of practice; or,
in the absence of directions therein, by the court, upon motion. It is
not necessary to state, in a case, that a finding upon the facts, or a 
ruling upon the law, was made, where the finding or ruling appears in
a referee's report, or in the decision of the court, upon a trial by the
court, without a jury. 
§ 998. It is not neeeeeary to make· a ease, for the purpose of moving
or a new trial, upon the minutes of the judge, who presided at a trial 
11 • f · l · • 
ya J'ury; or upon an a egation o nregu ar1ty, or surpnse; or where
f · d d 
party intends to appeal rom a JU gment entere upon a referee's
port, or a decision of the court upon a trial, without a jury, and to 
ely only upon exceptions, taken as prescribed in section nine hundred
nd ninety-four of this act. 
§ 999. The judge, presiding at a trial by a Jury, may, in his discre­
tion, entertain a motion, made upon his minutes, at the eame term, to 
184 
set aside the verdict· and grant a new trial, upon exeeptions ; or· because
the verdict is for excessive or insufficient damages; or otherwise contrary-to the evidence, or contrary to law. If an appeal is taken from 
the order, made upon the motion, it must be heard, upon a case, prepared and settled in the usual manner. 
§ 1000. Upon the application of a party who has taken one or more
exceptions, the judge, presiding at a trial by a jury, may, in his dis- 
cretion, at any time during the same term, direct an order to be entered,
that the exceptions so taken be heard, in the first instance, at the general term ; and that judgment upon the verdict be suspended, in the 
mean time. At any time before the hearing of the exceptions, the
order may be revoked or modified, upon notice, in court or out of·
court, by the judge who ma.de it; or it m~be set aside for irregu- 
larity, by the court, at any term thereof. nless it is so revoked or
set aside, the exceptions must be heard upo a motion for a new trial,
which must be decided by the general temt;:) The motion is deemed 
to have been made, when the order was granted; and either party
may notice it for hearing at the general term, upon the exceptions. 
§ 1001. Where the decision or report, rendered upon the trial of an
issue of fact by the court, without a jury, or by a referee, directs an 
interlocutory judgment to be entered; and further proceedings must
be taken, before the court, or a judge thereof, or a referee, before a
final judgment can be entered; a motion for a new trial, upon one or
more exceptions, may be made· at the general term, after the entry
of the interlocutory judgment, and before the commencement of the
hearing directed therein. The time within which the party must
except, for that purpose, to a ruling of law, made, upon such a trial,
by the judge or the referee, after the close of the testimony, is te.Jl da~e
after service of a copy of the decision or report, and notice 1>T" l e
entry of the interlocutory judgment thereupon. 
§ 1002. In a case, not specified in the last three sections, a motion fo~
a new trial must, in the first instance, be heard and decided at th~
special term. But where it is founded upon an allegation of error, tij 
a finding of fact, or ruling upon the law, made by the judge upon th
trial, it cannot be heard at a special term, held by another judge; unles ·
the judge, who presided at the trial, is dead, or his term of office b 
expired, or he specially directs the motion to be beard before anothe
judge. And a trial by a referee cannot be reviewed, by a motion for
new trial, founded upon such an allegation, except in a case specified.
in the last section. 
§ 1003. The provisions of this article, relating to the proceedings to 
review a trial by a jury, are applicable to the trial, by a jury, of one or
more specific questions of fact, arising upon the issues, in an action 
triable by the court. But, except in a case specified in section nine
hundred seventy of this act, a new trial may be granted, as to 
some of the questions so tried, and refused as to the others ; and an
error, in the admission or exclusion of evidence, or in any other ruling
or direction of the judge, upon the trial, may, in the discretion of the
court which reviews it, be disregarded ; if that court is of opinion, that
substantial justice does not require that a new trial should be granted.
Where the judge, who presided at the trial, neither entertains a motionl
for a new trial, nor directs exceptions, taken at the: trial, to .be heard at
the general term, a motion for a new trial can be made only at the term,
where the motion for final judgment is made, or the remaining issues
of fact are tried, as the case requires. · · · . ' 
§ 1004. In an action triable by the court, where a reference bas been
made, to report upon one or more specific questions of fact, involved in
the issue, a motion for a new hearing may be made at a special term, 
at any time before the bearing of a motion for final judgment, or the
trial of the remaining isauee of fact. The motion must be made upon
affidavits, unless the court, or a judge thereof, directs a case to be prepared and settled. - 
§ 1005. The entry of final judgment, and the subsequent proceedings
to collect or otherwise enf oree it, are not stayed by an exception, the
preparation or settlemen~ of a ease, or a motion for a new trial, unless 
an order for such a stay 18 procured and served; and the entry, collee­
tion, or other enforcement of a judgment does not prejudice a subsequent
motion for a new trial. Where a new trial is granted, the court may 
direct and enforce restitution, as where a judgment is reversed upon
ap;\>ea.1. 
§ 1006. The taking of an exception, upon a trial by a jury, or the
statement thereof in a case, as prescribed in this article, does not preju­ 
dice a. motion for a. new trial, on the ground that the verdict waa
contrary to evidence ; but such a motion may be made, before or after
the hearing of the exception ; or, in the discretion of the court before
which the exception is heard, at the time of the hearing. 
§ 1007. The notes of an official stenographer or assistant-steno1r­
rapher, taken at a trial, when written out at length, may be treated, m
the discretion of the judge, as the minutes of the judge upon the trial,
for the purposes of this article. 
TITLE X
8.cr10JJ 1008. It trial by jury wa.ived, a.ction must be tried by the court.
1009. Trial by jury; how waived.
1010. Decision upon trial by the court, when to be filed ; consequence ot 
fa.ilure.
1011. Reference by consent; when and how made.
1012. Qu&lifie&tion of the last section.
1013. Compulsory reference tor the trial of issues ; in what ca.see it may be 
made.
1014. Proceedings where the reference is for trial of pa.rt of the issues.
1015. Compulsory reference upon questions incidentally a.rising.
1016. Referee to be sworn.
1017. Witnesses may be subpoenaed,
1018. General powers of a referee, upon a trial.
1019. Referee's report ; when to be made, consequence of failure. 
1020. Double or other increased damages.
1021. Decision of court or report of referee, upon trial of demurrer.
1022. Id.; upon trial of the whole issue of fact.
1023. Parties may require court or referee tr determine pa.rticula.r 
questions.
1024. Qualifications of a referee.
10'J5. Sevel'al referees may be appointed.. 
10'J6. Proceedings regulated where there a.re several referees. 
§ 1008. In an action triable by a jury, if the parties waive the trial,
by a. jury, of the issue of f~t, the action must be tried by the court, 
186 
-------------- \}~ 
TITLE II. 
Tnala 'lDithout a i"'11 · 
- ... ,-,i't\~ 
,y. ,./ 
J _, 
Ith t • nl , • di ted • lb d b 
W1 ou a Jury; n ess a re,erence 1s rec , m a case prescn e y
law. But such an action, other than to recover dama~es for breach of 
a contract, cannot be tried by the court, without a Jury, unlees the
judge, presiding at the term ,vhere it is brought on for trial, assents to 
such a trial. His refusal so to assent annuls a waiver, made as prescribed in subdivision second, third, or fourth of the next section. 
§ 1009. A party may waive his right to the trial of the issue of fact,
by a jury, in any of the following modes: 
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By filing with the clerk a. written waiver, signed by the attorney 
for the party.
8. By an oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
4. By moving the trial of the action, without a jury; or, if the ad­ 
verse party so moves it, by failing to claim a trial by a jury, before the
production of any evidence upon the trial. 
§ 1010. Upon a trial, by the court, of an issue or fact or of law, its
decision, in writing, must be filed, in the clerk's office, within twenty
days after the final adjournment of the term, where the issue was tried.
If it is not so filed, either party may move, at a special term, for a new
trial upon that gronnd. If the decision has not been filed, when the~~!:'~ 
motion is heard, the court must make an order for a new trial, either
absolutely, or unless it is filed, within a time specified in the order. If 
an order for a new trial is made, or a contingent order for a new trial
becomes absolute, the costs of the former trial abide the event. 
§ 1011. Except in a case specified in the next section, the whole
issue, or any of the issues in an action, either of fact or of law, must 
be referred, upon the consent of the parties, manifested by a written
stipulation, signed by their attorneys, and filed with the clerk. Where
the stipulation does not name the referee, he may be designated by the
court, on motion of either party. Where the stipulation names the
referee, the clerk must enter an order, of course, referring the issue or 
issueS'fortrial, to that person only. IC the referee named in a. stipulation refuses to serve, or if a. new trial of an action tried by a referee so
named is granted, the court must appoint another referee, unless the
stipulation expressly provides otherwise. 
§ 1012. But a reference shall not be made, of course, upon the consent of the parties, in an action to annul the marriage, or for a divorce 
or a separation ; or an action against a corporation, to obtain a dlssolutiou thereof, the appointment of a receiver of its property, or the dis­
tribution of its property, unless it is brought by the Attomey-General;
or an action wherein a defendant, to be affected by the result of the
trial, is an infant. In a case specified in this section, where the parties
consent to a reference, the court may, in its discretion, grant or refuse
a reference ; and, where a reference is granted, the court must designate the referee. 
§ 1013. The court may, of its own motion, or upon the application of
either party, without the consent of the other, direct a trial of the
issues of fact, by a referee, where the trial will require the examination of a long account, on either side, and will not require the decision
of difficult questions of law. In an action, triable by the court, with-~:
out a jury, a reference may be mnde, as prescribed in this section, to 
decide the whole issue, or any of the issues; or to report the referee's
finding, upon ode or more specific questions of fa.ct, involved in the 
issue.
§ 1014. Where a reference is made, as prescribed in the last section, 
to report upon a specific question of fact, involved in the issue, and the
~ ,.4-"l'mination of one or more other issues 18 necessary, in order to 
enable the C'>art to render judgment, they must be tried, either before
or after the filing of the report, as the court directs, and either by a 
jury, or by the court, without a jury, as the case requires. \Vhere
they are tried by a jury, application for judgment must be made upon
the verdict and the report. 
§ 1015. The court may likewise, of its own mot.ion, or upon the
application of··either party, without the conseut of the other, -direct a
reference to take an account, and report to the court thereon, either 
with or without the testimony, after interlocutory or final judgment, or
where it is necessary to do so, for the information of the court; aud
also to determine and report upon a question of fact, arising in any
stage of the action, upon a motion, or otherwise, except upon the 
pleadings. ·
§ 1016. A referee, appointed as prescribed in either of the foregoing sections of this title, must, before proceeding to hear the testimony, be
sworn faithfully and fairly to try the issues, or to determine the ques­
tions referred to him, as the case requires, and to make a just and true
report, according to the best of his understanding. The oath may be
administered by an officer specified in section eight·hundred and forty­ 
two of this act. But where all the J'arties, whose interests will be
affected by the result, are of age, an present, in person or by attor­ 
ney, they may expressly waive the referee's oath. The waiver may be
made by written stipulation, or orally. If it is oral, it must be entered 
in the referee's minutes. 
§ 1017. A witness may be eubpcenaed to attend before a. referee,
appointed as prescribed in either of the foregoin~ sections of this title,
to testify, and, in a proper case, to bring with him a book, document, 
or other paper, as upon a trial by the court. 
§ 1018. The trial, by a referee, of an issue of fact, or of an issue of
law, must be brought on upon like notice, and conducted in like man­ 
ner, and the papers to be furnished thereupon are the same, and are
furnished in like manner, as where the trial is by the court, without a.
jury. The referee exercises, upon such a trial, the same power as the
court, to grant adjournments, to preserve order, and punish the viola­
tion thereof. Upon the trial of an issue of fact, the referee exercises
also the same power as the court, to allow amendments to the summons,
or to the pleadings; to compel the attendance of a witness by attach­
ment; and to punish a witness for a contempt of court, for nou-atteud-.
ance, or refusal to be sworn, or to testify. Upon the trial of an issue
of law, the referee exercises the same power as the court, to permit a
party in fault to plead anew or amend; to direct the action to be
divided into two or more actions; to award costs, and otherwise to dis­
pose of any question, arising upon the decision of the issue referred to 
him. The powers, conferred by this section, are exercised in like man­
ner, and upon like terms, as similar powers are exercised by the court,
upon a trial. 
§ 1019. Upon the trial, by a referee, of an issue of fact, or an issue
of law, his written report must be either filed with the clerk, or deliv­
ered to the attorney for one of the parties, within sixty days from the
time when the cause is finally submitted; otherwise either party may,
before it is filed or delivered, serve a notice, upon the attorney for the
ad verse party, that be elects to end the ref ere nee. In such a. case, the
action must thenceforth proceed, as if the reference had not been
directed ; and the referee is not entitled to any fees. 
§ 1020. Where the double, treble, or other increased damages are 
given by statute, the decision of the court, or the report of the referee,
must specify the sum awarded as single damages, and direct judgment 
for the increased damages.
§ 1021. The decision of the court, or the report of a referee, npon 
the trial of a demurrer, must direct the final or interlocutory jndg- 
~ent to be ~ntered thereupon. .Where it directs an interlocutory
judgment, with leave to the pnrt.y m fault to plead anew or ameud, or 
permitting the act.ion to. be divided into two or more actions, and no
other.Issue remains to be disposed of, it may also direct the final jndgment to be entered if the party in fault fails to comply with any of the
directions given or terms imposed. 
§ 1022. The decision of the court, or the report of the referee, upon
the trial of the whole issue of fact, must state separately the facts 
f'ound, and the couclueions of law; audit must direct the judgment,
to be entered thereupon. In an action, where the costs are in the discretion of the court, the decision or report must award or deny costs;
and, if it awards costs, it must designate the party to whom costs, to 
be taxed, are a warded.
§ 1023. Before the cause is finally submitted to the court or the 
referee, or within such time afterwards, and before the decision or
report is rendered, as the conrt 01' referee allows, the attorney for either 
party may submit, in writing, a statement of the facts, which he deems
established by the evidence, and of the rullngs npon questions of law, 
which he desires the court or the referee to make. The statement must
be· in the form of distinct. propositions of law, or of fact, or both, sepa- 
rately stated; each of which must be numbered, and so prepared,
with respect to its length, and the subject and phraseology thereof, that 
the court or referee may conveniently pass upon it. At or before the
time, when the decision or report is rendered, the court or the referee
must note, in the margin of the statement, the manner in which each
proposition has been disposed of, and must either file, or return to the
attorney, the statement thus noted; but an omission so to do does not
affect the validity of the decision or report. 
§ 1024. A referee, appointed by the court, must be free from all just
objections; and no person shall be so appointed, to whom all the parties 
object, except in an action to annul a marriage, or for a divorce, or a
separation. A judge cannot be appointed a referee, in an action
brought in the court, of wh ch be is a judge, except by the written consent of the parties; and, in that case, be cannot receive any compensation as referee. 
§ 1025. Where the court is authorized to appoint a referee, it may,
in its discretion, appoint either one or three. And where a reference 
is made by consent of the parties, they may select any number of
referees, not exceeding five. 
§ 1026. Where the reference is to more than one referee, all must
meet together, and hear all the allegations and proofs of the parties;
but a majority may appohrt a time and place for the trial, decide any 
ti hi h . th t • ) . t I 
ques ion w ic arises upon e riai, sign a repor, or sett e a case.
.Either· of them may administer an oath to a witness; and a majority 
of those present, at a time and place appointed fur the trial, may
adjourn the trial to a future day. 
TITLE X
2\-ial juror,, 6(1',MJ)t in N 81/J-Y ork and King, OOTffllia ; m«M of asktcti,ft/1 
tlu,m, and of procuring IJuM' att8ntJancs. 
A.rrlOLB 1. Qualifications and exemptions of trial jurore.
I. Mode of selecting, drawing, and procuring the attendance of trial 
jurors, in ordinary cases.
8. Mode of striking and procuring a epecial j'aey, and of procuring a 
foreign jury.
4. Pena.ltiea for non-attendance. 
ARTICLE FIBBT. 
QuALIFIOATI01'8 AlJD EuxPrlon o ... TBl.u. JUBOB& 
8:9(71'101' 1027. Qualifications of trial jurora.
1028. Additional provision re~ting property qualifications.
1029. Certain public officers disqualified.
1030. Persons entitled to claim exemption trom service.
1031. Evidence of exemption in certain cases.
1082. When juror to be discharged from serving.
1033. When juror to be excused from eerving.
1034. Application of this article, aa reE1peCte New-York and Kings countiea. 
§ 1027. In order to be qualified to serve, as a trial juror, in a court
of record, a person must be : 
1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of the county.
2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than sixty years of age.
8. Assessed, for personal property, belonging to him, in his own 
right, to the amount of two hundred and fifty dollars; or the owner of
a freehold estate in real property, situated in the county, belonging to
him in bis own right, of the value of one hundred and fifty dollars; or
the husband of a woman who is the owner of a like freehold estate, 
belonging to her, in her own right. 
4. In the possession of his natural facnltles, and not infirm or decrepit.
5. Free from all legal exceptions ; of fair character ; of approved 
integrity; of sound judgment; and well informed.
§ 1028. But a person who was assessed, on the last BMeMDlent-roll 
of the town, for land in his poseeeeion, held under a contract for the
purchase thereof, upon which improvements, owned by him, have been
made, to the VR.lUe Of One hundred and fifty dollars, is qualified t,o 
serve as a trial juror, although be does not possess either of the quali­
fications, specified in subdivision third of the laat section, if he is
qualified in every other respect. 
§ 1029. Each of the following officers is disqualified to Berve u a
trial juror: 
1. The Governor; the Lieutenant-Governor; the Governor's -privat,e
secretary. 
2. The Secretary of State ; the Comptroller; the Bt&te Treasurer;
the Attorney-General ; the State Engineer and Surveyor; a Canal
Commissioner ; an Inspector of State Prisons ; a Canal Appraiser ; the
Superintendent of Public Instruction; the Superintendent of the Bank
Department; the Superintendent of the Insurance Department; and
the deputy of each officer, specified in thus subdivision. 
S. A memoer of the Legislature, during the session of the house, of
which he is a member. · 
4. A jn~e of a court of record, or a sunorte.
5. A sbenft', under-sheriff', or deputy-sheri . 
6. The clerk or deputy-clerk of a court of record.
§ l030. Each of the following persons, although qualified, is entitled~:~:: 
to exemption from service, ae a trial juror, upon his claiming exemption therefrom : 
1. A clergyman, or & minister of any religion, officiating ae such,
and not fo1lowing any other calling. 
2. A resident officer of, or an attendant, assistant, teacher, or other
person, actually employed in, a. State asylum for lunatics, idiots, or
habitual drunkards. 
S. The agent or warden of a State prison; the keeper of a county
Jail; or a person actually employed in a State prison or county jail. 
4. A practicing physician or surgeon, having patients requiring his
daily professional attention. 
5. An attorney or counsellor at law regularly engaged in the practice
of the law, as a means of livelihood. 
6. A professor or teacher, in a college or academy.
7. A person actually employed in a glass, cot ton, linen, woollen, or 
iron manufacturing company, by the year, month, or season.
8. A snperintendent, engineer, or collector, on a canal, authorized by 
the laws of the State, which is actually constructed and navigated. 
9. A master, engineer, asslstaut-engtueer, or fireman, actually em­
ployed upon a steam-vessel, making regular trips. 
10. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed by a. rail­
road company, other than a street railroad company; or an operator,
or assistant-operator, employed by a telegraph company; who is actu­
ally doing duty in an office, or along the railroad or telegraph line of
the company, by which be is employed. 
11. An officer, non-commissioned officer, musician, or private of the
national guard of the State, performing military duty; or a person,
who has been honorably discharged from the national guard, af'ter five
years' service, in either capacity. 
12. A person who has been honorably discharged from the military
forces of the State, after seven years' faithful service therein. But in
order to entitle a person to exemption, under this subdivision, hisser­ 
vice must have been performed before the twenty-third day of April,
eighteen hundred and sixty-two, either as a general or staff-officer, or as
an officer, non-commissioned officer, musician, or private, in a uniformed
battalion, company, or troop of the militia of the State, and armed,
uniformed, and equipped, according to law; or a portion thereof, dur­
ing that period and in that capacity, and the remainder, since the
twenty-third day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty two, as a mem­
ber of the national guard of the State. 
18. A member of a fire company, or fire department, duly organized
according to the laws of the State, and performing his duties therein; or
a person who, after faithfully serving five successive years in such a fire
company, or fire department, has been honorably discharged therefrom. 
14. A person otherwise specially exempted by law.
§ 1031. The evidence of the right to exemption, as prescribed in the 
lut section, is as follows :
1. Under subdivision second thereof, the certidcate of t.he superin- 
tendent, or other principal officer of the uylum. 
191 
2. Under subdivision third thereof, the certificate of the warden, or
other principal officer, of the State prison, or the sheriff of the county,
as the case requires. 
3. Under subdivision eleventh thereof, where the applicant is a non­
commissioned officer, musician, or private, in a company or troop of the
national gnard, the certificate of the commanding officer of the company
or troop, accompanied with proof, by affidavit, of the genuineness of
the signature thereto. 
4. Under the last clause of subdivision eleventh, or under subdivision
twelfth thereof, in the discretion of the court, the discharge of the per ..
son from military service, if it shows the facts entitling him to exemp­
tion. 
5. Under the first clause of subdivision thirteenth thereof, where the
applicant is under the rank of foreman, the certificate of the foreman,
or other chief officer, of the company, to which the applicant belongs,
accompanied with proof, by affidavit, of the genuineness of the signa­
ture thereto. 
6. Under the last clause of subdivision thirteenth thereof, the certifi­
cate of the chief engineer of the fire department of the city or village,
where the service was performed, or of the mayor or president of the
city or village. 
A certificate, specified in this section, must be dated within three
months before the time of presenting it, and filed with the clerk of the
court, to which it is presented. 
§ 1032. The court must discharge a person from serving as a. trial
juror, in either of the following cases: · 
1. Where it satisfactorily appears that he is not qualified.
2. Where it satisfactorily appears that he is exempt, and he claims 
the benefit of the exemption.
Where a person is discharged, for either of the causes specified in 
this section, the clerk must destroy the ballot, containing his name. 
§ 1033. Upon satisfactory proof of the facts, a court, at the term to 
which a person is retumed as a trial juror, must excuse him from serv­
ing during the whole, or a portion of the term, in either of the follow- 
mg cases :
1. Where he is a justice of the peace, or executes any other civil 
office, the duties of which are, at the time, inconsistent with his attendance as a juror. . 
2. Where he is a teacher in a school, actually employed and serving 
CJ.8 such.
3. Where, for any other reason, the interests of the public, or of the 
juror, will be materially injured by his atteudance ; or bis own health,
or the health of a member of his family, requires his absence; or he is
temporarily incapacitated, for any reason, from properly discharging
the duties of a juror. 
Where a person is excused, in either of the cases specified in this section, the ballot, containing his name, must be returned to the box
from which it was taken. 
§ 1034. Section ten hundred and twenty-nine of this act applies
throughout the State. The remainder of this article does not apply to 
the city and county of New-York, or the county of Kings. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
lloDB 01" l!IBLBCTllfG, DRAWING, AND PROCURING THS ATTBNDABCB 011' TRIAL Juaoaa,
IN ORDINARY CASKS. 
8BC'l'lo1' 1035. Certain town officers to make lists of trial jurorB.
1036. Names of jurors to he taken from aaeettSment-roll.
1037. Duplicate juror lists to be made and filed.
1038. County clerk to make and deposit ballots.
1039. Connty clerk to destroy old ballots.
1040. Jurors so returned to serve for three years.
1041. Wards of certain cities to be considered towns, etc.
1042. When and bow many jurors. for courts of record. to be drawn.
1043. Not.ice of drawing.
1044. Sheriff and county judge to attend drawing. 
1()45. Sheriff or county judge, not appearing, to be again notified, etc.
1046. Certain officers required to he present at drawin~.
1047. Mode of drawing jurors; minute of drawing; list to be delivered 
to sheriff.
1048. Sheriff to notify jurors and make return.
1049. Applicants to he furnished with copies of jury lists.
1050. Names of jurors who have served, to be kept in separate box.
1051. Jurors to be drawn from that box, when first box is exhausted.
1052. A third jury box to be kept.
1053. When old ballots therein to he destroyed, and new ballot.a deposited.
1054. Jurors, when to be drawn from third box.
1065. How such jurors to be notified.
1056. Justice of supreme court, or county judge, may order drawing of 
additional jurors.
1057. Proceedings upon such order.
1058. For what com-ts, and hy whom, additional Jurors may be ordered. 
1059. How such additional jurors drawn and notified,
1060. Power of county judge, &R to attendance of jurors.
1061. Powers of deputy county clerk, under this article.
1062. 1'his article not. applicable to New-Yot·k and Kings counties. 
§ 1035. The supervisor, town clerk and assessors or each town. must
meet on the first Monday of July, in the year one thousand eight
hundred and seventy-eight, and in each third year thereafter, at a
place within the town, appointed by the supervisor; or, in case of his
absence, or of a vacancy in his office, by the town clerk; for t.he purpose of making a list of persons, to serve as trial jurors, for t.he then
ensuing three years. If they fail to meet, on the day specified in this section, they must meet as soon thereafter, as practicable. 
§ 1036. At the meeting, specified in the. last section, the officers
present must select, from the last assessment-roll of the town, and 
make a list of, the names of all persons, whom they believe to be qualified to serve as trial jurors, as prescribed in the last article. 
§ 1037. Duplicate lists of the names of the persons so selected,
showing the place of residence, and other proper additions, of each
of them, as far as those particulars can be conveniently ascertained,
most be made out, and signed by the officers, or a majority of them.
Within ten days after the meeting, one of the lists must be transmitted, by those officers, to the county clerk, and filed by him; and
the other must be filed with the towu clerk. 
§ 1038. On the first Monday of August, after the lists have been
transmitted to him, the county clerk must prepare suitable ballots, by 
writing the name of each person thus selected, as contained in the lists,
with his nlace of residence, and other additions on a separate piece of 
paper. The ballots must be uniform, as nearly as may be, in appearance; and the clerk must deposit them in the box, kept for that 
purpose. 
§ 1039. Before depositing the ballots, the county clerk must destroy
each ballot, remaining in either of the boxes kept by him, and containing the name of a resident of a town, for which a new list baa been 
transmitted. If, for any reason, the list from a town is not received
by the clerk, by the first Monday of A,ugust,1it, or a new list, to be 
made as prescribed for making the original list, must be transmitted,
as soon thereafter as practicable ;~nd the county clerk must prepare 
new ballots, and destroy the old tie.hots, containing the names of res­
idents of that town, immediately after the receipt by him, of the list 
therefrom.
§ 1040. Each person, whose name is contained in a list, so trans­ 
mitted, must, unless he is excused or discharged, serve, as a trial juror,
for three years from the first Monday of August of that year, and 
thereafter until another list, from his town, is received and filed.
§ 1041. Each ward of the city of Albany, or Utica, is considered a 
town, for the purposes of this article ; and the supervisor aud &88es80r
of that ward must execute the duties of the supervisor, town clerk, 
and assessors of a town, as prescribed in the foregoing sections of this article ; except that a duplicate of the list of jurors, ma.de by them,
must be filed in the office of the clerk of the city. In each of the 
other cities of the State, the like duties must be performed by the
officers, and in the manner, prescribed by law. A city wherein two or
more asseBSOrs are elected for the entire city, is considered a town, for
the purposes of this article, except where the officers who are to per­
form the duties of the supervisor, town clerk or ueeBSOr, as prescribed
in this article, are specially designated by law. 
§ 1042. On a day, designated by the county clerk, not less than four­
teen, nor more than twenty days, before the day appointed for holding
each term of the circuit court; or of the court of oyer and terminer, 
where a circuit court is not appointed to be held at the same time ; or
of the county court, except a term designated for the hearing and
decision of motions, and trial and other proceedings, without a jury;
or of the court of sessions, where a term of the county court is not
appointed to be held at the same time ; or of a. mayor's or recorder's·
court, at which issues are triable by a jury ; or on the day to which the
drawing is adjourned, as prescribed in section one thousand and forty­
five of this act, the clerk of the county, in which the term is to be held,
must draw the names of thirty-six persons, and any additional number,
ordered according to law, to serve as trial jurors at the term. 
§ 1043. At least six days before the drawing, the county clerk must
publish a notice thereof, in a newspaper published in the county, if
there is one ; or, if there is none, be must affix a notice thereof, on the
outer door of the building, where the term, for which the jurors are to
be drawn, is appointed to be held. He must also, at least three days
before the time appointed for the drawing, cause notice thereof to be
served upon the sheriff of the county, and upon the county judge, or
in case of his absence, upon the special county judge, or, in a county
where there is no special connty judge, upon a justice of sessions. 
§ 1044. At the time so appointed, the sheriff' of the county, or bis
under-sheriff', and the county judge, or, if notice bas been served upon
another officer, in the absence of the latter, as prescribed in the laid 
aection, either the county judge, or that officer, or both, must attend at
the clerk's office of the county, to witness the drawing of the jurors. 
§ 1045. If the sheriff or under-sheriff, and either the county judge,
or, in a case specified in the last section, an officer in place of the county 
judge, do not appear, the clerk must adjourn the drawing of the jurors
to the next day. Thereupon, the clerk must forthwith cause to be
served upon the absent sheriff or county judge, or two 01· more justices 
of the peace of the county, notice to attend the drawing on the
ad!onmed day. 
§ 1046. If the sheriff or under-sheriff, and the county judge, or if
the sheriff, under-sheriff, or county judge, together with two justices of 
the peace of the county, appear at the adjourned day, but not otherwise, the clerk must proceed, in the presence of the officers so appear- 
ing, to draw the jurors. ·
§ 1047. The drawing must be conducted as follows: 
1. The clerk must shake the box containing the ballots, so as thorbl
to 
· th · 
ougi LY mix em. 
2. He must then, without seeing the name contained in any ballot,
publicly draw out of the box one ballot; and continue to draw, in like
manner, one ballot at a time, until the requisite number has been
drawn. 
S. A minute of the drawing must be kept, by one or the attending
office!'8, in which must be entered the name contained in each ballot
drawn, before another ballot is drawn. 
4. If, after drawing the requisite number, the name of a person has
been drawn, who is dead, or insane, or who has permanently removed
from the county, to the knowledge of an attending officer, an entry of
that fact must be made in the minute of the drawing, and the ballot,
containing that person's name, must be destroyed. Whereupon,
another ballot must be drawn, in its place, and the name contained
therein must be entered, in like manner, in the minute of the drawing. 
5. The same proceedings must be had, as often as necessary, until
the requisite number of jurors bas been obtained. 
6. Tbe minute or the drawing must then be signed by the clerk, and
the other attending officers, and fl.led in the clerk's office. 
7. A list of the names of the persons so drawn, showing the place of
residence, and other proper additions, of each of them, and specifying
for what court and term they were drawn, must be made and certified
by the clerk, and the other attending officers, and delivered to the
sheriff of the county. 
§ 1048. The sheriff must, at least six days before the day appointed
for holding the term, serve, upon each person named in the list, peraonally, or by leavin~ it at his residence, with a person of proper age 
and discretion, a wntten notice to attend the term. He must file the
list with the clerk of the court, at or before the opening of the term ;
with a return, indorsed thereupon, or annexed thereto, under his hand,
naming each person notified, and specifying the manner in which he
was notified. 
§ 1049. The county clerk, or the sheriff, must furnish a copy of the
list of trial jurors, drawn to attend a term, to any person applying to 
him therefore, and paying the fees allowed by law. 
§ 1050. After the adjournment of the term, at which trial jurors
have been returned, as prescribed in the last section but one, the clerk 
must deposit the ballots, containing the names of those who attended
and aerved, in another box, kept by him. The ballots, containing the 
names of those who did not appear and serve, which have not been
destroyed, as prescribed in article first of this title, must be returned 
to the box from which they were taken. 
§ 1051. If, at the time of drawing trial jurors for a term, there is
not a sufficient number of ballots remaining in the first box, the clerk, 
after drawing all the ballots therein, must draw the necessary number
from the second box, containing the names of those jurors who have 
before served, as prescribed in the last section; and must continue to 
draw from that box, until new lists of jurors are transmitted by the
town officers. 
§ 1052. The county clerk must keep, in addit.ion to t.be two boxes
specified in the last two sections, a third box, in which he must deposit
duplicate ballots,containing the names, with the proper additions, of all
persons, selected and returned as trial jurors, who reside in the city or
town, where a trial term of a court of record is appointed to be held, 
pursuant to law. 
§ 1053. The ballots, kept in the third box, must be destroyed by the
clerk, and new ballots must be deposited therein by him, at the same
time, and under like circumstances, as prescribed in this article, with
respect to the destruction of the old ballots, and the depositing of new 
ballots, in the first box. 
§ 1054. If a sufficient number of trial jurors, duly drawn and notifled, do not attend or cannot be obtained, to form a jury, the court
may, in its discretion, direct the sheriff to draw from the third box, in
the presence of the court, the names of as many persons, as the court 
deems sufficient for that purpose.
§ 1055. The sheriff must forthwith notify each person so drawn, and 
make e. return, as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter, where tales­
men are required to attend; and the provisions of that title apply to 
each person so notified.
§ 1056. A justice of the supreme court, appointed to hold a term of 
the circuit court, or to preside at a term of the court of oyer and ter­
miner, may, by an order under his hand, direct that such a number of 
jurors, as he deems necessary, not exceeding twenty-four, be drawn for
that term, in addition to the thirty-six jurors, to be drawn as pre­
scribed in the foregoing sections of this article, A county judge may,
in like manner, direct the drawing cf a like additional number of
jurors, for a term of the county court, or of the court of sessions, to be
held in his county. 
§ 1057. An order, made as prescribed in the last, section, must be
delivered to the clerk of the county, in which the term is to be held, 
at least t.wAnty days before the day appointed for the commencement
thereof; and the clerk must forthwith file it. This article applies to
the additional jurors, so required to be drawn. 
§ 1058. At a term of the circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer,
or of the county court, or court, of sessions, an order may be made by 
the court, requiring the clerk of the county to draw, and the sheriff to
notify, any number of trial jurors, specified in the order, which the
court deems necessary, to attend that term, or a term thereafter to be
held, either by original appointment or by adjournment, at the com­ 
mencement thereof, or on a particular day, specified in the order.
§ 1059. The clerk must thereupon forthwith bring into court, all the 
boxes, wherein ballots, containing the names of trial jurors are depos­
ited, as prescribed in this article ; and must, in the presence of the
court, publicly draw from such box or boxes as the court directs, the 
number of trial jurors specified in the order. The clerk must make
and certify two lists of the persons so drawn; and must file one list in
his office, aud deliver the other to the sheriff. The sheriff must thereupon immediately notify each person so drawn, to attend, as specified 
iu the order.
§ l060. The county judge may, at the time oC drawing trial jurors 
to attend a term of the county court, or court of sessions, make an order,
designatiug a particular day, during the term, when the jurors must 
attend, or two or more particular days, upon each of" which a portion
of the jurors must attend, The sheriff must thereupon notify them to
attend, as specified in the order. 
§ 1061. The deput.y county clerk possesses, in the absence of the
couut.y clerk from his office, or from the sitting of a term of the court, 
the powers conferred by this article upou the county clerk.
§ 1062. This article does not apply to ihe city and county of New- 
York, or to the county of Kings. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
JlOD .. OJ.I' 8TlUKJlfG ilD PROCURING A. SPBCTA.L JUllY, A.BJ> OP PROOUBJlfG A. FORBIG.
JURY. 
8HoTioN 1063. What courts may order a special jury to be struck.
1064. Party obtaining order zo give eight days' notice.
1065. Mode of striking' jury.
1066. Jurors so drawn to be notified to attend.
1067. Jury to be formed 8.8 in other cases.
1068. Provision whel'e clerk or commissioner of jurors is interested.
1069. Party applying for special jury to pay expenses.
1070. Copy of order for foreign jury to be delivered to sheriff.
1071. Mode of obtaining a foreign jury, 
§ 1068. Where it appears to the· court, that a fair and impartial trial
of an issue of fact,. triable by a jury, joined in an action, pending in
the supreme court, or in a superior city court, cannot be had without a
struck jnry, or that the importance or int.ricacy of the case requires such
a jury, the court must make an order, upon notice, directing a special
jury to be struck, for the trial of the issue. The order must specify
the term, and it may specify a particular day in the term, when the
jurors must attend. 
§ 1064. Unless the order specifies, or directs the officer, who is to 
strike the jury, to fix, a time for the parties to attend, the party obtaining it must give at least, eight days' notice of the time, when he
will attend, before the clerk of the county in which the action is triable, 
or, if it is triable in the city and county of New-York, or the county
of Kings, before the commissioner of jurors, or, if it is triable in the
superior court of Buffalo, before the clerk of that court, for the purpose of having the jury struck. 
§ 1065. At the time appointed, the clerk, or, in his absence, the
deputy-clerk, or the commissioner, as the case requires, must attend at 
bis office, with the original lists or books, filed or kept in his office, as
required by law, containing the names of the persons who are then
liable to serve as trial jurors ; and, in the presence of the parties, or
their attorneys or counsel, must strike a trial jury, as follows : 
1. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or commissioner, must select from the
lists or books, the names of forty-eight persons, whom he deems moet
indifferent between the parties, and best qualified to try the issue ;
and must make and certify a list of those names. 
2. The party, on whose application the special jury was directed to 
be struck, or his attorney or counsel, may then first strike from the list
one name ; the adverse party or his attorney or counsel may then strike
therefrom one name; and 80 alternately, until each party has stricken 
out twelve names.
8. If either party fails to attend, at the time and place of st.riking 
the jnry, or neglects to strike out a name, the clerk, deputy-clerk, or
commissioner, must strike for him. 
4. The clerk, deputy-clerk, or commissioner, must thereupon make
out a list of the names of the twenty-four persons not stricken out, aud
must certify that it is a correct list of the persons, drawn to serve as
jurors, pursuant to the order of the court. He must immediately de­
liver the list 80 certified, and a certified copy of the order, to t.he 
sheriff of the county. If the list, from any ward or town cannot be
found, the clerk must make a new list. from the ballots then in use for
jurors for that ward or town, and must use that list upon striking the
jury, in place of' the original list. 
1006. The sheriff' must notify the persons whose names are con­
tained in the list, and must return the names of those notified, to the 
term, at which they are required to attend, as prescribed by law for
notifying and returning ordinary trial jurors. 
§ 1007. From the persons so notified and attending, a jnry must be 
formed (or the trial, and the issue mus\ be tried, as prescribed in this chapter with respect, to an ordinary jury trial. The court has the same 
power to excuse or discharge a juror, and to ca1Ule additional jurors to 
be drawn, or talesmen to attend, as upon an ordinary jury trial. Bnt
the court may, in its discretion, set aside an additional juror so drawn,
or a talesman, upon the objection of either party, without a. formal 
challenge. 
§ 1008. If it appears to the court, to which an application for a spe­ 
cial jury is made, that the clerk, or the commissioner of jurors, as the
case may be, is interested in the action ; or is related to either of the
parties; or is not indifferent, between them; the court must appoint
two disinterested persons to strike the jury. The persons so appointed 
possess, for the purposes of the action, all the powers conferred, by this article, upon the clerk, or the commissioner of jurors. 
§ 1009. The expense of striking a special jury mnst be paid by the
party applying for it, and shall not be taxed in the costs of the action. 
§ 1070. Where an order for a trial by a foreign jury is made, acer­
t.ified copy thereof must, be delivered to the sheriff of the county, from 
which it is to be drawn; who must give notice thereof to the clerk of
that county, and also, in the city and county of New-York, or the 
county of Kings, to ttie commissioner of jurors, at least twentv days
before the first day of the term, at which the foreign jury is required 
to attend, 
§ 1071. The clerk, or, in the county of Kings, the commissioner, to 
whom the notice is given, must draw the names of twenty-four persons,
in the same manner, and in presence of the same officers, al' prescribed
by law, with respect to ordinary trial jurors; except that notice of the
drawing need not he published. A certified list of the names drawn
must be delivered to the sheriff', who must notify each person drawn,
and make a. return, as in an ordinary case. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
Ps1u1.T111S l'OB NoM-A'rl'BlfDA.JrOL 
81IOl'JOB 1079. Fine t.o be imposed for non-attendance.
1073. Order to show cause, when Juror was not persona.117 notified.
1074. Id. ; if default was at cirewt. 
1075. Duty of clerk and sheriff'.
1076. Proceedings uPon return of such order.
1077. When proceedings to ceaae.
1078. This article not applicable to New-York and Kings counties. 
§ 1072. A person duly notified, as prescribed in this title, to attend
a term of a court of record, as a trie.l juror, who, without reasonable 
cause, neglects to attend, according to the notice, shall be fined a sum,
not less than ten dollars nor more than twenty-five dollars, for each
day tba.t he so ne~lects to attend. 
§ 1073. Where 1t appears, by the return of the sheriff, that the delinquent W88 personally notified to attend, the fine may be imposed by 
the court, at the term which he was required to attend. But where it
appears, by the return, that he was notified, by leaving the notice at 
his residence, the court must cause an order to be entered in its minutes, requiring him to show cause, on the first day of the next term of 
the court, why a fine should not be imposed upon him.
§ 1074. If the order is made at a term of a circuit court, it may, in~ 
the discretion of the court, direct the delinquent to show cause, on the 
first day of the next term of the county court of the same county.
§ 1075. The clerk must immediately deliver two certified copies of 
the order to the sheriff of the county, who must serve one copy on the
delinquent personally, and return the other, with his proceedings
thereon, to the term at which the delinquent is required to show cause. 
§ 1076. If the sheriff returns the copy of the order as personally
served, or if the delinquent attends, in obedience thereto, the court 
must, unless good cause is shown to the contrary, impose the proper
fine ; otherwise it must make a further order, requiring the delinquent
to show cause at the next term, why the fine should not be imposed.
The proceedings under such an order a.re the same as under the first
order. Similar orders must be made, from term to term, and similar
proceedings taken, until the delinquent is persone.lly served, or attends
in obedience thereto. 
§ 1077. But if it appears, from the return of the sheriff, or from any
other evidence, that the juror is dead, or insane, or has permanently
removed from the county; or if a satisfactory excuse is rendered by
any person, in his behalf, for his default, the court may, in its discretion, discontinue the proceedings. 
§ 1078. This article does not apply to the city and county of NewYork, or to the county of Kings. 
TITLE X
Trial j'Uf'or, in NBUJ-Y <Yrk and Kings oounti88 ; mods of IIJl«Jting tJu,m,
and of Pf'OCU,ring tluJir auendane« • 
.AlrrIOLB 1. Provisions rel.a.ting to trial Jurors in the city and county of New-York.
!. P1'0visions rela.tinar to trial Jurors in the county of Kings. 
PaoVl8I01'8 BBUTI1'G TO TJUll Ju:aoBS 111' TD CITY ill> Co01'TY oir Nlllr-YOBL
a.mo• 1079. Qualifications of trial jurors. 
1080, Who deemed a resident.
1081. Persons exempt from eervice.
1082. Evidence of nght to exemption in certain eaeee.
1088. Milit&IJ' officel'B required to certify to commiSBioner per80DII per- 
forming fuJl military duty.
1084. Jury year; length of jury service req_uired and allowed.
1085. When court mar temporarily excuse Juror from attendance.
1086. In other caees, Juror to be excused only on showing certain fa.eta.
1087. Juror applying to court to be excused must produce notice, etc. 
1088. Service in a court not of record; when an excuse.
1089. Clerk of court to certify to commissioner as to attendance, excusea, 
fines, etc., of jurors.
1090. Commissioner of jurora to select trial juro1'8; bis general powers.
1091. Commiseioner may appoint aeeistants, etc.; who may administer 
oaths.
1099. All public office1'8 required to aid the commiesioner.
1098. Expenses of commissioner'e office ; how paid.
1094. Lists of jurors to be prepared, etc.; commissioner to decide as to 
exemptions.
1095. Persons may be required to t.estity. u to juror's lia.bility to serve. 
200 
Penalty for disobedience. 
1096. Commiseioner to return lists to county clerk ; correction of lists. 
1097. Old ballots to be destroyed and new ballots deposited ; supplemental lists ; new ballots therefore. 
1098. Number of jurors to be drawn for each term of cn'!lrl of record. 
1099. When jurors to be drawn; -wha.t officers to attend drawing.
1100. Notice of drawing.
1101. Proceedings if officers do not appear.
11~. When jury to be drawn on adjourned day.
1103. Mode of drawing; minute ; Iiata,
1104. Id.; where term consist~ of two or more pa.rt&
1105. Commissioner may issue notice to juron drawn.
1106. Sheriff to notify jurors and make return.
1107. Clerk of court to certify as to mode of service.
1108. Court may order new panel to be drawn during term. 
1109. Court of record to fine juror for non-att.endanee; power to reml\
fine. 
1110. Juror may also be arrested and compelled to serve. .
1111. Jurors for district courts; bow selected; punisbmentfornon-a.ttend- 
aace ; clerk's duty; penalty for neglect.
1112. Sheriff''s jury ; how selected, etc.
1118. Proceedings before commissioner, to remit or enforce Jurr. fines. 
llH. Boa.rd for enforcement of jury fines; proceedings before 1t.
1115. General pawers of boa.rd.
1116. Commissioner to issue wa.rrant to collect fines; sberiff''e powers and 
duties thereupon.
1117. Uncollected fines to be docketed, and enforced as judgment&.
1118. Commiseioner to receive fines, etc. His account; how rendered 
and settled. 
TITLE IV. 
ARTICLE FIBST. 
§ 1079. In order to be qualified to serve, Q.8 a trial juror, in a court
in the city and county of New-York, a person must be: _ 
1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of that city
and county. 
2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than seventy years of age.
8. The owner, in his own ri~ht, of real or personal property, of th'l 
value of two hundred and fifty dollars; or the husband of a woman
who is the owner, in her own right, of real or personal property of that 
value. 
4. In the posseeeiou of his natural faculties, and not infirm or
decrepit. 
5. Free from all legal . exceptions ; intelligent ; of sound mind and
good character ; and able to read and write the English language
understandingly. 
§ 1080. A person dwelling or lodging in the city and county of NewYork, for the greater part of the .time, between the first day of. October 
and the thirtieth day of June next thereafter, is a. resident of that city
and county, for that jury year, within the meaning of the last section;
and it is not necessary, that he should have been assessed, or should
have voted there. 
§ 1081. Either of the following persons, although qualified, is entitled 
to an exemption from service, as a trial. juror, upon his claiming, an
exemption, as prescribed in. this. artiele : 
1. A clergyman, or a. minister of any religion, officiating as such,
and not following any other calling. , 
2. A practicingphysicia.n,surgeon,orsw-geon dentist, having patients
requiring bis daily professional attention, and not following any other 
calling '1- 0. 0ul<U.tL '-1.J.~~/..uJ.,,,.. 'f,J.A -1tt~J.. ,IA_{, ;..i,, l).l!,,'--li'! -',<t-10-1-0 i: 
• . e1-J C\.. HWIM-& 1~· ~!..«Ma ,_,.- ' 
8. An attorney or oounse1,en.t law regularly engaged in the practioe
of the law, as a means of livelihood. 
4. A professor or teacher in a college, academy, or public school, not
following any other calling. 
5. The holder of an office, under the United States, or the State, or
the city or county of New-York, whose official duties, at the time,
prevent his attendance as a juror. 
6. A consul of a foreign nation.
7. A captain, engineer, or other officer, aetually employed. upon a 
vessel, making regular trips ; or a licensed pilot, actually following
that calling. 
8. A superintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed by a railroad
company, other than a street railroad company; or a telegraph oper­
ator, employed by a telegraph company; who is actually doing duty
in an office, or along the railroad or telegraph line of the company, by 
which he is employed.
9. A grand juror, or a she:riif's·juror, for the year, selected pUl'Buanl 
to law. 
10. An officer, non-commissioned officer, musician, or private, actually
serving in a brigade, regiment, battalion, company, or troop, of the
national guard of the State, uniformed and equipped, according to
law, and faithfully performing his duty, by making the parades, and
attending the drills, inspections, and reviews, required by law; or a
general or staff-officer, actually performing duty as such; or a person
who has been honorably discharged from the national guard, after five
years' service, in either capacity. 
11. A person who has been honorably discharged from the military
forces of the State, after seven years' faithful service therein. But in
order to entitle a person to exemption, under this subdivision, his
service must have been performed before the twenty-third day of
April, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, either as a general or stafr­
officer, or as an officer, non-commissioned officer, musrcian, or private,
In a uniformed battalion, company, or troop, of the militia of the Stat.e,
and armed, uniformed, and equipped, according to law; or a portion
thereof, during that period and in that capacity, and the remainder,
since the twenty-third day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-two,
as a member of the national guard of the State. 
12. A person who, after faithfully performing the duties of a fireman,
in a fire company or fire department, duly organized according to the
laws of the State, for five successive years, has been honorably dis­
charged therefrom. 
13. A person who is physically incapable of performing jury duty,
by reason of severe sickness, deafness, or other physical disorder. 
14. A person holding office under the fire or police department of the
city; or otherwise specially exempted by law. 
§ l082. The evidence of the right to exemption, as prescribed in the
last section, is as follows : 
1. Under subdivision tenth thereof, where the applicant is a member
of a company or troop, the certificate of the captain, or other command­
ing officer thereof, dated within three months of the time of presenting
it. Or the commissioner of jurors may, in his discretion, receive the
certified list, specified in the next section, as sufficient evidence thereof.
Where the applicant is a regimental officer, or a staff-officer, the evidence
of the right to exemption is the certificate of the major-general, or other
officer, commanding the first division. 
2. Under subdivision tenth thereof, where the applicant has been
discharged, or under subdivision eleventh or twelfth, the certificate of
discharge ; and, where it does not show all the facts, the affidavit of
the applicant, or of another person acquainted with the facts. 
S. Under subdivision thirteenth thereof, the certificate of a reliable
physician, or the affidavit of the applicant, or both ; or any other evi­
dence satisfactory to the commissioner. 
4. Under any other subdivision thereof, an affidavit of the applicant,
or an affidavit satisfactory to the commissioner, of another person in bis
behalf, stating the facts, entitling the applicant to exemption. Each
certificate specified in this section, must be accompanied with satis­
factory proof, by affidavit, of the genuineness of th signature thereto;
and each affidavit and certificate must be filed with the commissioner
of jurors, and must be kept open by him, at all reasonable times, to
public inspection. · 
§ 1083. The captain, or other commanding officer, of each eompa.ny 
or troop, in the first division of the national guard, must deliver to the
commissioner of jurors, on or before the first day of July in each yea.r., 
and at any other time when he may require it, a list, certified by him,
containing the full name and residence of each member and officer of 
his company or troop, who is uniformed and equipped, and faithfully
performs his duty, as prescribed in subdivision tenth of the last section 
but one. No other name shall be inserted in the list. Tbe list must
be filed in the commissioner's office. The major-general, or other officer,
commanding that division, must, when necessary, issue orders to carry
this section into effect. He must also furnish to the commissioner of
jurors, when so required, a list, certified by him, containing the name
and residence of each officer or other member of that division, not comprised in the lists of the companies and troops. An officer, who neglects
or refuses to perform the duty, specified in this section; or who includes,
in a list certified by him, the name of a person who is not described in
this section; or who gives a false certificate, in a case specified in the
last section; forfeits the sum of fifty dollars for each offense. 
§ 1084. The jury year, in the city and county of New-York, commences on the first day of October. A person who has actually served, 
u a trial juror, in a court of record of the State, within that city and
county, twelve days within a jury year, is entitled to be discharged by
the court ; except that be shall not be discharged, until the close of a
trial, in which be is serving, when the twelve days expire. A person
diacbarged, as prescribed in this section, is, thereafter, during the same
jury year, exempt from jury service in any county of the State. Where
the certificates of oue or more clerks of the courts, made as prescribed
in section ten hundred and eighty-nine of this act, show that a person
is entitled to a discharge, as prescribed in this section, the commissioner
of jurors must, upon request, certify to the fact. A person cannot serve 
as a. trial juror, in courts of record, at more than two terms in a jury year. 
§ 1085. The judge, holding a term, may, in bis discretion, excuse a
mal juror from service at that term, for not more than three days at a 
time, where the exigencies of bis business require his temporary exemption. The judge may also discharge, for the term, one or more jurors,
notified and attending, whose further attendance is not required for the
trial of issues at that term. Or he may discharge, until a day certain,
one or more jurors, notified and attending, whose attendance will not
be required, for the trial of issues, until that day. Each juror, so discharged until a day certain, must attend at the opening of the court on
that day, and thereafter until he is discharged, without further notice.
If he fails so to do, he is liable to the same punishment, and the same
proceedings must be taken, as if be bad failed to attend, at the time
fixed in the notice given to him. 
§ 1086. Except as prescribed in the last section, a court or a judge
shall not excuse a person, liable to serve as a trial juror: and duly drawn 
and notified, unless it is shown, by the oath of the juror, or, if he is
unable to attend, by the oath of another person, acquainted with the 
f~, that he is then necessarily absent from the city, and will not
retllm in time to serve; or that the interests of the public, or of the
juror, will be materially Injured by bis attendance; or that he is physically unable to serve ; or that his wife, or a near relative of himself or
his wife, bas recently died or is dangerously sick. Where a person
liable to serve is excused, in a case specified in this section, or where a
person, uotitied to attend a term, as a trial juror, is entitled to, and 
claims an exemption, he can be excused only by the judge, holding the
term, which he has been notified to attend. Such an excuse does noi
extend beyond that term. 
§ 1087. A person, who has been notified to attend, as a trial juror,
and who applies to be excused, as prescribed in the last section, must 
bring the notice, if he has received it, into court, and present it, in
open court to the judge; or, if he cannot personally attend, he must
send it, by a person capable of making the necessary proof, in relation 
to his claim to be excused. A note of the excuse, and of the reason
therefore, attested by the judge, who must append bis signature or his 
initials thereto, must also be made upon the notice to attend; or, if
the juror bas not brought it into court, upon a separate piece of paper;
which must be transmitted to the commissioner of jurors, by the clerk;
as part of the return, made as prescribed in section ten hundred and
eighty-nine of this act. 
§ 1088. A person, serving as a trial juror, elsewhere than in a court
of record, is excused from jury duty in a court of record, only during 
the time of his actual service elsewhere.
§ 1089. The clerk of each court of record in the city and county of 
New-York, must, within ten days after the close of each term, for
which trial jurors have been drawn, or after the discharge of the trial 
jurors, if they are discharged before the close of the term, retum to
the commissioner of jurors, the certified copy of the minute of the 
drawing of the jurors, received from the sheriff, and the sheriff's re­ 
tum thereto, or a copy of each paper, certified by the clerk; together
with each notice or other paper, attested by a judge, as prescribed in
the last section but one. The clerk must also deliver to the commis­
sioner therewith, his certificate, specifying, distinctly and in detail, as 
follows: .
1. The name and residence of each juror, who attended and served; 
the number of days the juror attended for the purpose of serving; and
the number of days he actually served. 
2. The name and residence of each juror, who was excused or dis­
charged; with the reason therefore. 
3. The name and residence of each 'person aosifled, who did not at­ 
tend or serve.
4. The name and residence or each person fined, and the date and 
amount of his fine, unless the fine bas been remitted, as prescribed in section eleven hundred and nine of this act. 
The return and certificate must be filed in the commissioner's office,
and shall not be altered or corrected, except in pursuance of an order
of the court. If a clerk fails to make a complete return and certificate,
as prescribed in this section, he is guilty of a contempt of the court ;
and the commissioner of jurors must institute the appropriate proceed­
ings to punish him accordingly. 
§ 1090. Trial jurors must be selected by the commissioner of jurors,
who must alone decide upon their qualifications, and exemptions, ex­
cept as otherwise expressly prescribed in this article. But this section 
does not impair the right to challenge a particular juror at the trial.
The commissioner may issue, to a person entitled to an exemption, a 
certificate of that fact, which exempts the person, to whom it is granted,
from jury duty, during the time limited therein. He must keep a
record of all proceedings before him, or in bis office. He is entitled to,
and must collect, for the benefit of the city, for a copy of a paper fur­
nished by him, the same fees as the clerk of a court of record. 
§ 1091. The commissioner of jurors may, from time to time appoint,
and at pleasure remove, one or more assistants, clerks in his office, and 
messengers, and may fix their compensation. He may designate, in 
204 
writing, an assistant, to attend, in his place, the drawing of jurors, for
a particular term. The commissioner, or each assistaut, whom he des- 
ignates for the purpose, by a certificate, filed in the office of the county
clerk, may administer an oath or affirmation, in relation to any matter, 
embraced within the provisions of this article. 
§ 1092. The president and commissioners of the department of taxes
and assessments, the police commissioners, and all other pnblic officers 
in the city of New-York, must render to the commissioner of jurors, all
the assistance in their power, to enable him to procure the names of persons, liable to serve as trial jurors. 
§ 1093. The board of aldermau+of'the city of New-York mnst take
care, that suitable rooms, and other accommodations are provided for 
the use of the commissioner of jurors. If, by the first day of March,
in auy year, suitable rooms have not been provided for his use, for the 
year commencing on the first day of May next ensuing, he may lease
suitable rooms, for that year, and may pay the reut, out of the money
received by him for fines and penalties. But. a lease so made shall not
take effect, until a majority of the members of the board, specified in section eleven hundred and fourteen of this act, indorse therenpon a
certificate, signed by them, to the effect, that, in their opinion, such a 
lease is necessary, in consequence of the omission to make other suitable provision, as prescribed in this. section ; that the rooms leased are
required, for the proper performance of the duties of the commissioner;
that the rent payable therefore, by the terms of the lease, is, in their
opiniou, reasonable; and that the lease is, in all other respects, fair­
just, and proper. The proper and necessary expenses of the commis,
sioner'a office, including the reasonable compensation of his assistanta,
clerks, and meeaengers, necessary printing and advertising, books, sta­
tionery, and other articles required for the convenient discharze of his
duties, may be paid by him, out of the money, received by him for
fines and penalties. If there is a deficiency, the board of alderman's 
mnst provide for the payment thereof, by the comptroller of the city of
New-York, out of the city treasury. 
§ 1094. The commissioner must. commence the preparation of lists
of trial jurors, in the month of May, in each year. For that purpose, 
the names of the persons, liable to serve as trial jurors, must. be
entered in suitable books, alphabetically, with the occnpat.ion, place of:
business, and residence of each, ae far as those particulars can be con- 
veniently ascertained. After the first day of June, he must publish a
notice, for at least ten days, in not less than six of the newspapers
published in the city, that. claims for exempt.ion will be heard by him.
He may insert in, or append to the notice, copies of such portions of
the etatutes, relating to jurors, as he deems expedient. He must hear
.and determiue all claims for exemption, and must keep a record of the 
persons exempted, and of the period of time for which the exemption
of each is al lowed. 
§ 1095. The commissioner may cause to be personally served, on any 
person, within the city, a notice, requiring him to attend, at the commissioner's office, at a specified time, not less than twenty-four hours 
af
. f th . ti r th f t t"f . . hi 
ter service o e no ice, ror . e purpose o es 1 ymg concernmg is 
own liability, or t.he liability of any other person, to serve as a juror.
A person so notified must attend, and test.ify accordingly. If he fails 
t.o attend, as specified in the notice, for any cause, except physical
inability; or if he refuses to be sworn, or to answer any legal and pertinent question, put to him by t.he commissioner; he forfeits fifty dol- 
Jars for each failure or refusal. One or more successive notices may be
served upon the same person, where he fails to attend, as reqnired by 
a former notice; and he is liable to the same penalty, for each failure
so to attend. But the commissioner may, in his discretion, dispense
with the personal attendance of a person so notified, where another
person, cognizant of the facts, is produced and testifies in his stead :
and where a person bas so attended twice, he cannot be required ~
attend again, in the same jury year. 
§ 1096. On or before the first day of October, in each year, the com­
missioner must return to the clerk of the city and county of New York, 
to be filed in his office, certified copies of the lists, prepared by him, of
the persons, liable to serve as trial jurors in the courts of record, for 
the ensuing jury year. He may, from time to time thereafter, strike
from the lists kept by him, the name of a person, who is found by him
to be exempt or disqualified. In that case, he must record the reason
w1!, the name is stricken off'. 
§ 1097. When the certified copies of the lists have been returned, as
prescribed in the last section, the ballots for trial jurors, used in the 
previous year, must be returned, by the count.y clerk, to the commie­
sioner, who must destroy those which are not required for the current 
jury year. The ballots for the current jnry year must be prepared l>y 
the commissioner, who may use, for that purpose, 80 many of the bal­
lots, prepared for the previous year, as he deems expedient. The ballots, so prepared, must be delivered by the commissioner to the county
clerk, and deposited by the county clerk, or his deputy, in & box, as
prescribed in article second of title third of this chapter. The commis­
sioner may, from time to time thereafter, return certified copies of
additional lists, containing the names of persons, liable to serve as trial
jurors, which were omitted from the former lists; and ballots, contain­
ing those names, must be prepared in like manner, and used for the
residue of the jnry year. 
§ 1098. The number of trial jurors, to be drawn for each term, and
each separate part of a term, of a. court of record in the city, at which
issues of fact are triable by jury, must be fixed by a general order of 
the court, or, if it is not so fixed for a term, or a separate pa.rt of & 
term, by a writt.en order of the judge, appointed to hold the same.
The order, or a certified copy thereof, must be filed in the office of the
county clerk. If the number has not been fixed, in either mode, at
the time of the drawing, one hundred trial jurors must be drawn for
each term, or for each part, if the term consists of two or more separate
parts. 
§ 1099. On a day, designated by the county clerk, not less than
fonrteen, nor more than twenty days, before the day appointed for
holding, in the city, a term of a court of record, at which Issues of
fact are triable by jury, the commissi mer of jurors, in person, or by an 
assistant designated by him; the sheriff' of the city and county of
New-York, in person, or by his under-sheriff; and one or more judges
of courts of record, residing in the city, must attend, at the, office of
the county clerk, to witness and assist m the drawing of trial jurors
for the term. 
§ 1100. At least six days before the drawing, the county clerk must.
publish notice thereof, in at least three newspapers, published in the 
city. He must also cause written notice thereof to be served upon the
sheriff, the commissioner of jurors, and at least three judges of one or
more courts of record, residing in the city. 
soe 
§ 1101. If at leas'. one judge of a court of record, residing in the
city, and also the commissioner of jurors, and the sheriff, in person, or
represented, as prescribed in the last section but one, do not attend, the
clerk, or, in his absence, the deputy-clerk, must adjourn the drawing
to the next day. Thereupon the clerk must forthwith cause to be
served, upon the absent commissioner or sheriff, and upon at least three
judges of one or more courts of record, residing in the city, written
notice, to attend the drawing upon the adjourned day. 
§ 1102. If the officers, specified iu section ten hundred aud ninetynine of this act, attend upon the adjourned day, but not otherwise, the
clerk, or, in his absence, the deputy-clerk, must proceed, in their presence, to draw the jurors. 
§ 1103. The drawing must be conducted as follows:
1. The county clerk, or bis deputy, must shake the box containing 
the ballots, so as thoroughly to mix them.
2. He must then, without seeing the name contained in any ballot, 
publicly draw out of the box, one ballot; and continue to draw, in like
manner, one ballot at a time, until the requisite number has been
drawn. 
3. A minute of the drawing must be kept by one of the attending
officers, in which must be entered the name, contained in each ballot
drawn, before another ballot is drawn. 
4. After drawing the requisite number, the minute of the drawing,
containing the names of the persons drawn, with the proper additions
of each, aud specifying for what court and for what term they were
drawn, must be signed by the clerk or his deputy, and the attending
officers, and filed in the clerk's office. 
§ 1104. If the term consists of two or more separate parts, the trial
jurors for each part must be drawn, and a minute of the drawing must 
be made, signed, and filed, and the subsequent proceedings must be
the same, M if it was a distinct term. . 
§ 1105. The commissioner may issue, to a trial juror so drawn, a
printed notice, informing him that he has been drawn, and will be duly 
notified by the sheriff, and containing copies of such portious of this article, as the commissioner deems advisable. 
§ 1106. The clerk must deliver, to the sheriff, a certified copy of the
minute, or of each minute, if there are two or more. The sheriff must 
uotify each juror, named therein, to attend the term or part, for which
he was drawn, by serving upon him, at least six days before the commencement thereof, a notice, addressed to him, stating that he bas
been drawn as a trial jnror for, and is required to attend, the term or
part, specified in the notice. The notice m"'y be served personally, or
by leaving it at the juror's residence, or usual place of business, with a
person of proper age and discretion. Before the commencement of the
term or part, the sheriff" must file, with the clerk, the certified copy of
the minute, with a return, under bis hand, indorsed thereupon, or
annexed thereto, naming each person notified, and specifying the
manner in which he was notified. 
§ 1107. The clerk of each court, for a term of which trial jurors are
notified to attend, by the sheriff, must certify to the clerk of the board 
of alderman,* each case, where less than a majority of the persons,
named in a minute of a drawing, are returned as personally served. 
The board of aldermen are prohibited from allowing or paying any fees
or charges to the sheriff, for notifying any of the persons named in that
minute, or for making a return thereupon. A clerk of a court, who 
omits to notify the clerk of the board of alderman, as prescribed in this section, is liable to a penalty of one hundred dollars, for each omission, 
to be recovered by any person suing therefore.
§ 1108. At any time, during the sitting of a term of a court of record 
in the city, the court may direct an additional number of trial jurors 
1n1;:ur· to be drawn, for the term, or for the part, at which the order is made.
The order must specify the number to be drawn, and the time of draw­
ing. The drawing may be made, either in open court, under the
direction of the judge; or in the -ordinary manner, except that notice is
not required. The sheriff must forthwith notify the jurors drawn, by 
euch a notice u the court directs, to attend the term or part, at the
time specified in the order. 
§ 1109. Where a person, duly drawn, and notified to attend a term
of a court of record, as a trial juror, fails to attend, at the time specified 
in the notice, or from day to day, the court, at that term, must impose
upon him a fine of not Jess than fifty nor more than two hundred and 
fifty dollars. A fine thus imposed may be wholly or partly remitted,
by direction of the judge, in open court, before the end of the same
term, and upon good cause shown ; otherwise it shall not be remitted,
except as prescribed in sections eleven hundred and thirteen and
eleven hundred and fourteen of this act. Each remission, 80 made by
the judge, with the reason therefore, must be entered in the minutes of
the court. This section applies to a special juror, as well 8.8 to an ordi­ 
nary trial juror. 
§ 1110. Where a person, duly drawn and notified, fails to attend
and serve, at a term of a court of record, as required by law, without 
having been excused, the court, besides imposing a fine, as prescribed
in the last section, may direct the sheriff to arrest him, and bring him 
before the court; and, when be has been so brought, it may, in its dis­
cretion, compel him to serve. 
§ 1111. A list of trial jurors, for each of the district courts, must be
selected by the commissioner of jurors ; and must consist of not le88 
than fifty, nor more than one hundred jurors. A person shall not be
placed upon such a list, who does not reside in the district, in which 
the court is held. The judge of each district court must impose a fine
of twenty-five dollars, upon each person, duly drawn, and notified to 
attend the court, as a trial juror, who fails to attend, as required by the
notice. The clerk of the court must, within ten days thereafter, trans- 
mit to the commissioner of jurors a certificate, showing that the fine
has been so imposed, and stating how the notice to attend was served
upon the delinquent, in order that the same proceedings may be had,
as in the case of a delinquent juror in a court of record. A judge, or a
clerk, who violates this section, forfeits one hundred and fifty dollars
for each off euce. 
§ 1112. The board for the selection of grand jnrots must, at the time
when it selects the . grand jurors for each jury year, also select, from 
the lists of trial jurors for that year, the names of not less than one hundred and twenty, nor more than one hundred and fifty persons, to con­
stitute the sheriff 'a jurors, for that jury year. The commissioner of
jurors must forthwith transmit, to the sheriff of the city and county of
New-York, a list, certified by him, containing the names of the persons
so selected, with the proper additions of each, and showing that they
have been selected, as prescribed in this section. The sheriff must cauee
ballots to be pre_pared, as prescribed in article second of title third of 
this chapter, and to be deposited in a. proper box. Where the sberift" is 
authorized or required by law, to empanel a jury for any purpose, the
requisite number of ballots must. be drawn from t.he box, as prescribed 
in that article, by the sheriff, or hy his under-sheriff, or deputy-sheriff.
But the sheriff may, in his discretion, divide the names contained in
the list, into three panels, each containing an equal number of names,
as nearly as may be. In that case, he must designate the mouths, in
which each panel wil1 be used, sot.hat the jury duty shall be distributed
equally, as nearly as may be, among the jurors; and ballots shall be
deposited in the box, at the beginning of each month, containing the
names of the jurors designated for that mont.h. 
§ 1113. The commissioner of jurors must cause a notice to be served
upon each delinquent trial juror, returned as having been fined, stating
the amount of the fine, and the term at which be was fined, and requiring him to attend before the commissioner at the latter's office, on a
specified day and at a specified hour, and show cause, if he has any, 
why the fine should be wholly or partly remitted, or why payment
of the fine should not be enforced. The notice must be served at least
six days before the day therein specified. If the sheriffs return shows
that notice to attend, as .., trial juror, was personally served upon the
person fined, the notice to show cause, as prescribed in this section, may
be served upon him either personally, or by leaving it at bis residence,
or usual place of business, with a person of suitable age and discretion;
otherwise it must be served upon him personally. If a person so notified fails to attend, the fine must be enforced. If he attends, he may
demand a bearing before the board for the enforcement of jury fines;
otherwise the commissioner must decide with respect to the remission
of the whole or any part of the fine, and the sufficiency of the cause
shown, if any, and his decision is conclusive, wit.h respect to that fine,
unless the person fiued, within ten days thereafter, serves upon him a
written demand of a bearing before the board or enforcement. In
that case, the commissioner must appoint a time for the hearing; and
the person fined must then attend without further notice. 
§ 1114. The presiding justice of the supreme court, in the first judicial
department, the chief-judge of the court of common pleas, the chief- 
judge of the superior court, the chief-justice of the marine court, the
mayor, the recorder, the city judge, the judge of the court of general
sessions, and the commissioner of jurors, constitute the board for the 
enforcement of jury fines. The board must meet, at the office of the
commissioner of jurors, on the last .Monday in October in each year,
and on the last Monday of each month thereafter, until and including
the following month of June ; and as much oftener, as the business
before it.requires, Three members of the board constitute a quorum.
The board, either upon a hearing, or when acting upon the commissioner's decision, as the case requires, has exclusive power, except as
in this article otherwise prescribed, to remit the whole or any part of a.
tine. The board, or the commissioner, may, in its or his discretion,
bear testimony, or determine a case upon affidavits; and may, from
time to time, adjourn the hearing or final disposition of a particular case. 
§ 1115. The board may compel the attendance of any person, reqnired
to appear before it, as prescribed in the 18.Bt section but one. It may
issue a warrant, directed to the sheriff of t.he city and conut.y of NewYork, comruaudiug him to arrest, and bring before the board, a person,
who fails to attend, at the time appointed for heariug his cruse, or to
pay a fine imposed upon him, aud not remitted by the board. If a. 
delinquent trial jnror, duly drawn, and returned by the sheriff as pereonallf notified to attend a term, or personally notified to attend before 
the commissioner, as prescribed in the laet section but one, is, in the
opinion of the board, able to pay his fine, the board may make an order, 
directing the sheriff" to arrest him, and imprison him in the county jail,
until the fine is paid, not exceeding thirty days. The sheriff must
obey such an order. The board may make an order, directing that a
person, paying a fine imposed upon him, be excused from jury duty,
for a period not exceeding one year. 
§ 1116. Aft.er ten days have expired, since the final decision of the
board of enforcement, with respect to a fine, as prescribed in the last section but. one, if the fine has not been remitted or paid, the commis­
sioner must issue a warrant, under hie hand, directed to the sheriff of
the city and county of New-York, reciting the facts, and commanding
the sheriff to collect from each person, named in the schedule annexed 
thereto, the sum, set opposite that person's name in the schedule, and
to pay over the same to the commissioner. The schedule must contain
the names of persons, fined and notified to show cause, whose fines have
not been wholly paid or remitted; it must show the amount of each
fine, remaining unremitted or unpaid; and the residence or usual place
of business of each person fined, as far as it can be conveniently ascer­
tained. The sheriff" must collect each fine, by a levy upon and sale of
the personal property of the person fined, as prescribed by law, where
an execution against property is issued upon a judgment, rendered iu
a court of record. The sheriff is entitled, in each case, to the same fees
as upon such au execution, to be collected in the same manner. He 
must return the warrant and schedule, with his proceedings thereupon, 
to the commissioner, within thirty days after the delivery thereof to
him ; and must then pay over the money collected, less his fees.
His return may be compelled by the supreme court, in the same man­
ner as the return of an execution against, property, issued upon a judg­
ment rendered iu that court, For his failure to collect a fine, an action
may be maintained against him, in a case where such a caee* may be
maintained by a judgment creditor, ap:ainst a. sheriff failing to collect
an execution against property, and with like effect. The provisions of section one thousand one hundred and nineteen of this act apply to 
such an action.
§ 1117. The commissioners* must, within thirty days after the 
return of the warrant to him, file with the clerk of the court, by which
each uncollected fine was imposed, a certificate, to the effect that the 
warrant has been returned, and showing what fines remain uncollected.
Thereupon the clerk must, make, in the docket-book of judgments,
kept by him, the same entries, as nearly as may be, with respect to
each uncollected fine, as if it was a final judgment, rendered in an
action. If the fine was imposed by a. court, other than the supreme
court, the clerk thereof must immediately transmit a. transcript of the
entries, to the clerk of the city and county of New-York, who must file
it. and make the appropriate entries, in his docket-book of judgments,
The commissioner must pay the clerk's fees, at the rate allowed for
similar services, with respect to judgments. When the entries have
been ma.de, the fine, with interest, becomes a lien upon the real prop­ 
erty of the person fiued, aa if it was recovered by a. judgment in the
same court ; and an execution to collect it may be issued, directed. to
the sheriff of the city and county of New-York, as upon such a judg­
ment. The commissioner has, in relation to the execution, and the 
satisfaction of the fine, a11 the powers of the attorney for a pa.rty recovering such a judgment, in relation to the judgment, and the execution
issued thereupon. 
§ 1118. The commissioner of jurors must receive all money, paid or
eollected for fines or penalties, as prescribed in this article; and he may 
make all payments therefrom, which he is authorized by this article to
make. He must give a receipt for any money paid to him, for a fine
or penalty. He must keep a just and faithful account of all receipts 
and payments, by items, showiug the name of the person, from whom
each sum of money was received, and to whom each sum of money was
paid ; and must, at all reasonable times, keep hie account open to public inspection. At the end of each calendar year, his account must be
verified by hie affidavit, to the effect, that it is, in all respects, just and
true; and that he has not received any sum of money, during the
year, for which he has not charged himself in the account. The
account, thus verified, must be audited and,certified, by at least three
other members of the board for the enforcement of jury fines; and the
commissioner must thereupon pay over, to the chamberlain of the city,
the balance, if any, in his hands. The account, thus audited and certified, must immediately be transmitted by the commissioner, to the
clerk of the board of aldermen; and must be published in the newspaper, designated, as prescribed by law, for the publication of the
official proceedings of city officers. . 
§ 1119. The corporation attorney of the city of New-York must,
when required by the commissioner of jurors, prosecute, in the proper 
court, an action for the collection of each penalty, incurred as prescribed in this article ; unless he if'.' satisfied, upon an examination of 
the case, that there is a defense to the action. The action must be
maintained in the name of the mayor, aldermen, and commonalty of
the city of New-York, as plaintifff's. The commissioner, with the assent 
of the corporation attorney, may compromise, settle, or discontinue, an
action so brought. From the proceeds of an action, prosecuted to
judgment and execution, or compromised, as prescribed in this section,
the corporation attorney may retain the taxable or taxed eoste. He
must pay over the remainder, to the commissioner. 
§ 1120. A physician, who knowingly gives a false certificate, or
makes a false representation, for the purpose of enabling or assisting a 
person, to be discharged, excused, or exempted from service as a trial
juror in the city and county of New-York, is guilty of a misdemeanor. 
§ 1121. A person, to whom application is made, within t.be city of
New- York, by the commissioner of jurors, or by his authority, for
information, as to a fact, upon which the liability of himself, or any
other person, to serve as a trial juror, depends, and who refuses to
give information relating thereto, which he can give, or knowingly
gives false information relating thereto; or a person who knowingly
makes to the commissioner of jurors, or to a person acting by his
authority, a false representation, as to the identity, residence, or any
other matter, relating to the liability of himself, or any other person,
to serve as a trial juror, forfeits fifty dollars for each offense. 
§ 1122. A person who gives, pays, promises, or offers, money, or any
other thing, to the commissioner of jurors, the sheriff, the county clerk, 
or other clerk of a court; or to the deputy of, or a pergon employed by,
the county clerk or other clerk of a. court; or to an officer, messenger, 
or other person, employed by the sheriff, or the commissioner of jurors;
for the purpose of enabling or assisting himself, or any other person, 
named or drawn as a trial juror, to evade, or to be discharged, exempted,
or excused from service; or who knowingly makes a false statement or 
representation, to a judge, the ccmmissioner of jurors, or a member of
the board of enforcement of jury fines, for such purpose; or who know­
ingly retains, conceals, suppresses, or willfully destroys, a notice to 
attend, before the commissioner of jurors, or at a term of a court, or
any other paper, relating to the liability to serve, or service, as a trial
juror, left at the residence or place of business of another, who bas
been named or drawn as a trial juror, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
The district-attorney must prosecute for each offense, specified in this
or the next two sections, which comes to bis knowledge. 
§ 1123. An officer, ore. person employed by the sheriff, by the com­
missioner of jurors, or by the county clerk, or other clerk of a court, 
who takes money, or any other thing, as a gift, bribe, or payment, for
the purpose of enabling or assisting a person, named or drawn as a
trial juror, to evade, or to, be discharged, exempted, or excused from
jury duty ; or who willfully and knowingly prevents or hinders the exe­
cution of any provision of this article, is guilty of a misdemeanor. 
§ 1124. A person, named or drawn as a trial juror, to whom an offer 
or suggestion to procure his discharge, exemption, or excuse from jury 
duty, for or in consideration of a. corrupt inducement or reward, is 
made by any person, and who fails, within twenty-four hours there- 
after, to inform the commissioner of jurors thereof, is guilty of a mis­
demeanor. 
§ 1125. A person, who swears falsely in an affidavit, or testifies falsely
upon an inquiry, made as prescribed in this article, is guilty of per­ 
jury, in a. case where falsely swearing, in an affidavit, used upon a
motion in a civil action, or falsely testifying, upon the trial of an issue
of fact in such an action, would constitute that crime. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
PBovl8I01'8 JlBL.A.TllfG TO Tatu JUBOB8 llf TBB Cou1'TT OJI' KmGS, 
BJm,:oir 1196. Qualifications of trial jurors.
1127. Persona exempt from service. 
1128. Evidence of right to exemption in cert.a.in caeee. 
1129. Length of jury service required. Notice to juror to attend.
1130. When court to excuse juror from service.
1131. Clerk of court to certify to commissioner, 88 to att.endance, exCUl!e!, 
fines. et.e., of jnron,.
1182, Commissioner of jurol'8 to select trial jurol'8 ; his general powers.
1138. Id.; to receive fees and fines for benefit of county.
1134. Bupervisol'8 to provide for hie expenses, etc.
1185. Asi4eseore to return persons liable, and commissioner to select jW'Or&, 
1196. When commissioner to publish notice, and receive evidence of es·
emption. 
1197. Commissioner to prepare list, and file tram!icript.
1138. Supplemental list.a Jll&Y be afterwards ma.de.
1189. Ballots to be prepared, and deposited in box.
1140. What officers to attend drawing; how many juron to be drawn.
1141. Proceedings prelimina.ry to the drawing.
1142. Drawing; how conducted.
1143. Certificate to be made, and boxes sealed up.
1144. Subsequent dr&wings; how conducted.
1145. Proceedings when first box exhausted.
1146. Commissioner to transmit panel to sheriff; 1heri1r to uotiff Juror& 
8acT10• 1147. Days for which the jurora are to be notified. Bxeusing jlll'Ors, and
eba.nging days of their attendance. 
1148. Sheriff' to make return of jurors notified.
1149. Cow·t m11.y at any time order a new panel. How d.rawn.
1150. Jurors in certain special proceedings.
1151. Compensation to judges, etc., fol' services under this article.
1152. Court of record to tine juror for non-attendance.
1153. Juror may also be arreated, and compelled to serve.
1154. Commissioner to notify jurors fined to appea.r ; board for remission 
and enforcement of fines. 
1166. Commissioner to collect fines, and to make return of unpaid fines J 
precept thereupon.
1156. Fines, not collected under precept, to be docketed and enforced. u 
judgments.
1157. When lien discharged.
1158. Commissioner, etc., COITUptly omitting name, is guilty of felony.
1159. Commissioner's other wiU'ul neglect, a misdemeanor.
1160. Giving false information, or suppressing notice, a misdemeanor.
1161. Penalty for physician givin_g false certificate.
1162. Commissioner to report and pay over money. 
§ 1126. In order to be qualified to serve, as a trial juror, in a court
of record in the county of Kings, a person must be: 
1. A male citizen of the United States, and a resident of that county.
2. Not less than twenty-one, nor more than sixty years of age.
3. The owner, in his own right, of real property, of the value of one 
hundred and fifty dollars, or of personal property, of the value of two
hundred and fifty dollars; or the husband of a woman, who is the
owner, in her own right., of real or personal property, of that value. 
4. In the possession of his natural faculties; and not infirm or decrepit.
6. Free from all legal exceptions ; int.elligent; of sound miud and 
good character ; and able to read and write the English language under­
standingly. 
§ 1127. Either of the following persons, although qualified, is entitied to an exemption from service, as a trial juror, upon bis claiming 
&11 exemption, as prescribed in this article :
1. A clergyman, or a minister of any religion. officiating as such, 
and not following any other calling,
2. A practicing physician, surgeon, or surgeon dentist, having pa­ 
tien ts requiring his daily professional attention, and not following'any
other calling. 
3. An attorney or counsellor at law, regularly engaged in the prae­
tice of the law, as a means of live1ihood. 
4:. A professor or teacher in a college, academy, or public school, or in
a private school for the instruction of pupils in the usual branches of
educat.iou, not following any other calling. 
6. The bolder of an office, nuder the United States, or the State, or
the county, or the city of Brooklyn, or a town of the county; whose
official duties, at the time, prevent his attendance as a juror. 
6. A captain, engineer, or other officer, actually employed upon a
vessel, making regular trips; or a licensed pilot, actually following 
that calling.
7. A snperintendent, conductor, or engineer, employed. by a railroad 
company, other than a street railroad company; or a telegraph opera-.
tor, employed by a telegraph company, who is actually doing duty in
an office, or along the railroad or telegraph line, of the company, by 
which be i8 employed. 
8. An officer, non-commissioned officer, musician, or private, actual)y
serving in a brigade, regiment, battalion, company, or troop, of the
national guard of the State, uniformed and equipped, according to law,
and faithfully performing his duty, by making the parades, and attend­
ing the drills, inspections, and reviews, required by law; or a general
or .staff-officer, actually performing duty as such; or a person who baa
been honorably discharged from the national guard, after five years'
service, in either capacity. 
9. A person, who bas been honorably discharged from the military
forces of the State, after seven years' faithful service therein. But, in
order to entitle a person to exemption, under this subdivision, his ser­
vice must have been performed before the twenty-third day of April,
eighteen hundred and sixty-two, either as a general or staff-officer, or
as an officer, non-commissioned officer, musician, or private, in a uni­
formed battalion, company, or troop, of the militia of the State, and
armed, uniformed, and equipped according to law; or a portion thereof,
during that period, and in thnt capacity, and the remainder, since the
twenty-third day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, as a mem­
ber of the national guard of the State. 
10. A person, who, after faithfully performing the duties of a fire­
man, in a fire company or fire department, duly organized, according 
to the laws of the State, for five successive years, has been honorably
discharged therefrom ; or who is, at the time, an officer or mern her of
a fire company, duly organized, according to the laws of the State, and
faithfu11y performing his duty therein. 
11. A person, who is pl1ysieally incapable of performing jury duty,
by reason of severe sickness, deafness, or other physical disorder. 
12. A person belonging to the army or navy of the Uuit.ed States;
or to the police force or fire department, of the city of Brooklyn. 
18. A person otherwise specially exempted by law. 
§ 1128. The evidence of the right to exemption, as prescribed in the
last section, is as follows: 
1. Under subdivision eight thereof, where the applicant is a member
of the national guard, below the rank of brigadier-general, the certifi­
cate of the commanding officer of the brigade, regiment, battalion,
company, or troop, to which the applicant belongs, dated within three
months of the time of presenting it. 
2. Under subdivision eighth, ninth, or tenth thereof, where the
applicant has been discharged, the certificate of discharge; accom­
panied, where it does not show all the facts, with the affidavit of the
applicant, or of another person, acquainted with the facts. 
3. Under subdivision tenth thereof, where the applicant is an officer
or member of a fire company, the cert.iticate of the foreman, or other
chief officer, of the company, to which the applicant belongs, dated
within three months of the time of presenting it, 
4. Under any ot.her subdivision thereof, an affidavit of the applicant;
or an affidavit, satisfactory to the commissioner, of another person in
his behalf, stating the facts, entitling the applicant to exemption. 
Each certificate, specified in this section, must be accompanied with
satisfactory proof, b1 affidavit, of the genuineness of the signature
thereto; and each affidavit and certificate must be fi.1ed with the com­
missioner of jurors, and must be kept open by him, at all reasonable
times, to public inspection. 
§ 1129. A person shall not be required to serve, as a trial juror, more
than six days, at any term, for which his name is drawn, as prescribed 
in this article, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise specially
directs; except that be shall not be discharged, until the close of a
t.ria.l, in which be is serving, at the time when the six days expire. A 
person shall not be required to serve, as a trial juror, except by the
special order of the judge presiding at or holding the term, or as otherwise specially prescribed in this article, unless at least three days' previous notice to attend bas been served upon him, as prescribed in section one thousand one hundred and forty-six of this act, 
§ 1130. The jud~e presiding at, or holding a term, may, in his discretion, excuse a trial juror, attending thereat, from service, during the
whole or a. portion of that term, in either of the following cases : 
1. Where be has actually served as a trial juror, in a court of record
in the couuty, within six months before the commencement of the 
term, and since the second Monday of August, preceding the com­
meucemeu t thereof. 
2. Where be has actually served in the county, as a grand juror,
pursuant to law, since the first Monday of September, preceding the 
commencement of the term.
3. Where the Interests of the public, or of the juror, will be materi­ 
ally injured by his attendance; or his own health, or the health of a
member of his family, requires his absence; or his wife, or a near rela­
tive of himself or bis wife, bas recently died. 
§ 1131. The clerk of each court of record in the county of Kin~s,
must, within one week after the close of each term, for which trial 
jurors have been drawn, or after the discharge of the trial jurors, if
they a.re discharged before the close of the term, return to the commissiouer of jurors, the panel of trial jurors, with the sheriff's return,
received from the sheriff, as prescribed in section one thousand one
hundred and forty-eight of this act, or a copy of each of those papers,
certified by the clerk. The clerk must also deliver to the commissioner
therewith, a certificate, specifying, distinctly and in detail, as follows : 
1. The name and residence or each juror, who attended and served;
and the number of days he actually served. 
2. The name and residence of each juror, who was excused or dis­
charged ; with reason therefore. 
3. The name and residence of each person notified, who did not
attend or serve. 
4. The name and residence of each person fined, and the date and
amount of his fine. 
The return and certificate must be filed in the office of the commis­
sioner, who must also record therefrom, upon the list originally wade
by him, the date and amount of service, performed by each person, as 
therein set forth.
§ 1182. Trial jurors must be selected by the commissioner of jurors, 
who may decide upon their qualifleations, and exemptions, as prescribed in this article. The commissioner may, from time to time, 
appoint, and at pleasure remove, one assistant, and as many wore
assistants, clerks, and messengers, as the board of supervisors directs. 
The commissioner, and each assistant, whom he designates for the
purpose, by a certificaa.e, filed in the office of the county clerk, may
administer an oath or affirmation, in relation to any matter, embraced
within the provisions of this article. The commissioner must keep a
record of all proceedings before him, or in his office. 
§ 1133. The commissioner is entitled to, and must collect, for a copy
of a paper furnished by him, the same fees as the clerk of a court of 
215 
record. He must furnish a copy of each paper filed, or proceeding
taken, in his office, to any person applying therefore, and paying the 
fees. All the money received by him, for fees, or fines collected from
trial jurors, or otherwise in the discharge of his duties as commissioner,
must be accounted for by him, and paid into the treasury of the couuty. 
§ 1134. The board of supervisors o( the county must provide suitable
rooms, and other accommodations, for the use of the commissioner of 
jurors, and also for the compensation of his assistants, clerks, and messengers; and for necessary printing and advertising, books, stationery
and other articles, required for the convenient discharge of bis duties. 
§ 1185. The assessors in the city of Brooklyn, and of each town in
the county of Kings, or a majority of them, must, after the first day of
May, and on or before the first day of July, in each year, return, to the
commissioner of jurors, a written list, under his or their bands, contain­
ing the names of all persons in the city or town, as the case may be, 
who are Hable to serve as trial jurors; and stating the occupation, place
of business, and residence, of each person, as far as those particula.rs
can be conveniently ascertained. The omission to include the names
of one or more persons, so liable, or any other error or defect in a list,
does not affect the validity of any proceeding, prescribed in this article.
The commissioner must, within the same period, select, from the per­
sons residing in the county, suitable persons to serve as trial jurors.
In making the returns or selection, the assessors and the commissioner
respectively must take the names of those persons only, whom they
believe to be qualified to serve, and not exempt from service, as trial
jurors. A list of the names so selected must be made, by the commis­
sioner, in a book, specifying, as nearly as he bas ascertained the facte,
the occupation, the place of business, and the residence of each person,
including the town, or, in the city of Brooklyn, the ward. In the list,
the towns must be arranged alphabetically, and the wards numerically ;
and the names of the jurors must be arranged alphabetically, according
to their surnames, each under the name of the town or ward, where he 
resides.
§ 1136. As SOOD after the first day of June, in each year, 8.8 the com­ 
missioner has made the list, he must publish a not.ice, for at least ten
days, in at least six daily newspapers, published in the county, to the 
effect, that the list of trial jurors for the year is ready, at bis office, for
examination and correction. He must then receive evidence of disquali- 
fications or exemptions, and must mark" not qualified", or "exempt,.,
in the list, opposite the name of each person, found to be disqualified
to serve, or exempt from serving as a trial juror, as the case requires.
He must also reoord therein, the ground of each disqualification or
exemption. 
§ 1137. On the first Monday of August in each year, or earlier, if the
corrections can be earlier made, the commissioner must prepare t.he lis\ 
of trial jurors for the year, by copying, from his book, the names of all
persons. who appear therein to be liable to serve as trial jurors, with
the proper additions of each. The commissioner must file a transcrip,
of the list, verified by bis affidavit, in the office of the county clerk. 
§ 1138. Supplemental lists, containing the names and proper addi­
tions of persons, subsequently ascertained to be liable to serve as trial
jurors, may, from time to time thereafter be made; and transcript.. 
thereof, verified as prescribed in the last section, must be filed in like
manner, by the commissioner. Ballots, containing those names, must
be prepared, as prescribed in the next section, and used, in like man- 
216 
ner as the other ballots therein specified, for the residue of the jury
year. 
§ 1139. The commissioner must prepare ballots, by writing the names,
contained in the list, a transcript of which was filed in the office of the~~ 
county clerk, with the proper additions of each person, on separate
pieces of paper, which must be uniform, as nearly as may be, in appear- 
ance. On the second Monday of August in each year, he must deposit
the ballots, in the box kept by him for that purpose, and must place
his seal upon the box; whereupon all jury ballots, previously in use, 
must be destroyed. The box must be constructed with au aperture,
large enough only to conveniently admit the hand of the person, by
whom the ballots are to be drawn; and the aperture must be provided
with a cover, so arranged as to be conveniently sealed, when closed. 
§ 1140. The commissioner must seasonably notify the justices of the
supreme court, resipiug in the connty, the judges of the city court of
Brooklyn, the county judge, and the justices of sessions of the county, 
to attend, at his office, on a day designated by him, not less than fourteen nor more than twenty days, before the day appointed for holding
a term of a court of record int.he county, at which issues of fact are
triable by jury, in order to witness and assist in the drawing of trial
jurors, for that term. The number of trial jurors, to be drawn for each 
term, may be fixed by the judge who is to preside at or bold tlie term,
by an order under bis band, delivered to the commissioner. If the
number has not been so fixed, at the time of the drawing, one hundred
and thirty-two trial jurors must be drawn for the term. 
§ 1141. If two or more of the jud~s, specified in the ]ast section,
attend with or without one or more Justices of sessions, the commis- 
sioner must break the seal of the box containing the ballots, open it,
and exhibit the ballots for their inspection ; together with bis original
and each supplemental list of trial jurors, and also the verified traneeripts thereof, filed in the county clerk's office. The ballots, containing the names of trial jurors, excused from service. for the whole or
a portion of a previous term of a court of record in the county, which
have not already been replaced in the box, to be redrawn, must then
be replaced therein; and the judges attending the drawing, must take 
ca.re, when the seal is broken, that they aro so replaced. If a supplemental list bas been made, and a transcript filed since the last drawing, ballots, containing the names appearing therein must, at the
same time, be placed in the box. The judges and the commissioner,
or a. majority of them, must appoint one of the attending officers to
draw tho ballots from the box, and another to eheekmark the draw- 
ing as it proceeds, upon a. copy of the lists, transcripts of which have
been filed with the county clerk. 
§ 1142. The commissioner must then shake the box containing the
ballots, so as thoroughly to mix them. The person, appointed for that
purpose, must then, without seeing the name contained in any ballot,
publicly draw one ballot from the box, and read aloud the contents
thereof. If the drawing is for trial jurors, to servo h the city court of
Brooklyn, and the person drawn does not reside in that city, the ballot
must be retumed to the box; but if he resides in that city, or if the
drawing is for trial jurors, to serve in another court, the person appointed to checkmark the drawing, must place, opposite the name of 
the person drawn, upon the copy of the listis, the figure one. The 
ballot must then be deposited in a second box, provided for that pur­
pose, and constructed like the first box. Another ballot must then be 
drawn, in like manner, from the first box: and the same process must
be repeated, until the requisite number bas been drawu; except that.
each name must be cbeckmarked in its numerical order. 
§ 1143. When the drawing is completed, the commissioner, and the
judges by whom it was conducted, must sign e. minute, at the end of
the copy of the lists, upon which the cbeckma.rks have beeu made, 
setting forth that the trial jurors, whose names are contained therein,
were duly drawn by them, for the court and the term therein specified,
in the order denoted by the figures. The judges must then close each
box; and place upon the cover thereof, their seals, which mu.st not be
broken, except when necessary for a subsequent drawing. 
§ 1144. The proceedings, upon each subsequent drawing, are the
same ; but the list, must be checkmarked with numbers, commencing 
with the number next in order, after the last number used at the preceding drawing. 
§ 1145. After all the ballots have been drawn from the first box, and
deposited in the second box, the commissioner must make a new list, 
by copying the lists used upon the preceding drawings, omitting the
checkmarks. He must then correct it, by properly indicating each per­
son who has been found to be disqualified, exempt, dead, or not resi­
dent within the county; and each person, who bas been excused, and
for what time. Thereafter, when trial jurors are drawn, the ballots
must be drawn from the second box; the names must be cbeckmarked
on the corrected list; and the ballots not used must be deposited in the
first box; except that where a ballot is drawn, containing the name of
a person indicated, on the corrected list, as disqualified, exempt, dead,
or non-resident, it must be destroyed; and a. ballot, contaiuing the
name of a person who bas been excused, for a period then unexpired,
must be returned to the box from which it was drawn, without checkmark.ing. 
§ 1146. Immediately after each drawing of trial jurors, the commis­
sioner must prepare a panel, verified by his affidavit, containing the
names of the jurors drawn, with the proper additions of each, and
stating for what court and for what term, they were drawn. He must
transmit the panel to the sheriff of the county, who must keep it on file,
in bis office, for public inspection. The sheriff must forthwith not.ify
each juror named therein, to attend the term for which he was drawn,
by serving upon him a notice to that effect, addressed to him. The
notice may be served personally, or by leaving it at the juror's resi­
dence, or usual place of business, with a person of proper age and dis­
cretion. It must specify the days, during which the juror is required
to be present; and it may contain copies of such portions of this article,
as the sheriff deems proper. 
§ 1147. The thirty-six trial jurors, first drawn for a term, or such
other number as the judge, appointed to hold or preside at the term, 
directs, must be notified to be present, during the first six days of the
term; aud the thirty-six trial jurors next drawn, <'1' such other number
as the judge directs, must be notified to be present, during the next six
days of the term; and a like number during each succeeding six days.
The jud~e, holding or presiding at the term, may, in bis discretion, on
the application of a trial juror, excuse him, from the whole or a pari 
of the time of service, required of him. The judge may also chauge
the time of service of a. juror to a. later day, during the same, or a sub- 
sequent term of the court. Each juror, whose time of service is changed 
to a day certain, must attend, at the opening of court on that day, and
thereafter until discharged, without further notice. If he fails so to do,
be is liable to the same punishment, as if he had been personally notified by the sheriff", to attend the term, and to be present on that day.
The clerk of the court must enter in a book, kept for that purpose, the
name of each juror, who is so excused, or whose time of service is
changed. 
§ 1148. Before the commencement of each term of a court, for which
trial jurors have been drawn, as prescribed in this article, the sheriff
must file, with the clerk, the panel, or a copy of the panel, with a
returu, under his hand, iudorsed thereupon, or annexed thereto, show- 
ing the name and additions of each juror notified, the days during
which be was notified to attend, aud the manner in which be was
notified. 
§ 1149. At any time during the sitting of a term of a court of record
in the county, the court may direct au additional number of trial 
jurors, to be drawn for that term. The order must specify the number 
to be drawn, and the time of drawing. The drawing must be conducted as prescribed in sections eleven hundred and forty-one, eleven
hundred aud forty-two, and eleven hundred and forty-three of this act,
except that notice is not required. The sheriff must forthwith notify
each juror drawn, by such a. notice as the court directs, to attend the
~rm, at the time specified in the order. 
§ 1150. In a. special proceeding, pending before the county judge of
Kings county, in which a trial jury is necessary, the judge may 
empauel a jury, from the trial jurors, who are serving, at the time, in
the court of sessions of the county. lu a special proceeding, pending 
before a judge of the city court of Brooklyn, in which a trial jury is
necessary, the judge may empanel a jury, from the trial jurors, who
are serving, at the time, in that court. If there are no jurors serving
in the court of sessions, or in the city court, as the . case may be, the
judge may make an order, requiring the commissioner of jurors to
draw the number of trial jurors, designated therein; whereupon the
commissioner must draw the requisite number, and the sheriff must
notify them, as prescribed in this article, for drawing and notifying
other trial jurors. 
§ 1151. The board of supervisors of the county must allow to each
ju<lge, including each justice of the supreme court, for the services 
P
erformed by him, as prescribed in this article, such compensation, as 
th
b d d
bl d
e oar eems reasoua e an proper.
§ 1152. Where a person, duly drawn and notified to attend a term of 
a court of record, as a trial juror, fails to attend, at the time specified
in the notice, or from day to day, the court, at that term, must impose
upon him a flue of twenty-five dollars, for each day that be fails so to 
attend, This section applies to a special juror, as well as to an ordiuary trial juror. 
§ 1153. Where a person, duly drawn and notified, fails to attend and
serve, at a term of a court of record, as required by law, without hav- 
iug been excused, the court, besides imposing a fine, as prescribed in
the last section, may direct the sheriff' to anest him, and bring him 
before the court; and, when he bas been so brought, it may, in its
discret.iou, compel him to serve. 
§ 1154. The commissioner of jurors must cause a notice to be served
up"on each delinquent trial juror, returned as having been fined, stating 
the sum in which, and the term e.t which be was fined, and requiring
him to show cause, if he has e.ny, before the board, specified in this section, e.t the commissioner's office, on a day, not less than three days
thereafter, and at an hour specified in the notice, why the fine should
be remitted. The commiseioner must notify the justices of the supreme
court, residing in the county, the county judge, and the chief-judge of
the city court of Brooklyn, to attend at the same time and place, and
act with him as a board, for the remission and enforcement of jury 
fines. It is their duty to attend, and act accordingly. The commis­
sioner, and two of those justices or judges, constitute a quorum. The
board may, in its discretion, hear testimony; e.nd it may, from time to 
time, adjourn the meeting, or the hearing or final disposition of a par­
ticular. case. It may remit the whole or any part of a fine; but a fine
shall not be remitted or reduced, unless the person, upon whom it has
been imposed, or, if a reason satisfactory to the board is given, why his
affidavit cannot be furnished, another person in his behalf, makes, and
files with the commissioner, an affidavit, stating the grounds, upon
which a remission or red nction is claimed. Each e.ffi.davit, so filed,
must be kept open to public inspection. 
§ 1155. The commissioner of jurors must receive each fine, paid or
collected, as prescribed in this article. When ten days have expired, 
since the final disposition of a case by the board, the commissioner
must fl.le, in the office of the clerk of the court, a retum, containing the 
name of each juror fined, whose fine remains unpaid, and a statemens
of the sum remaining unpaid. The clerk must thereupon issue to the 
commissioner, a precept, under the seal of the court, specifying the
name of each person fined, and the amount of his fine remaining
unpaid ; and commanding the commissioner to levy and enforce collee­
tion of each fine, and to return the precept, with his doings thereupon,
within ninety days aft.er the receipt thereof. For the purpose of col­
lecting a fine, the commissioner must levy upon and sell the personal
property of a person fined, with Jike effect, and subject to the same pro­
visions of law, as where a sheriff levies upon and sells personal property,
by virtue of an execution, issued upon a judgment of a court of record. 
§ 1156. The commissioner must return the precept, according to its
command, to the clerk of the court issuing it. If be fails so to do, the
court may enforce the return, by attachment for contempt. When the 
precept is returned, the clerk must make, in the docket of judgments
kept by him, the same entries, as nearly as may be, with respect to 
each uncollected fine, as if it was a final judgment, rendered in an
action. If the fine was imposed at a term of the city court of Brook­
lyn, the clerk thereof must immediately transmit a transcript of the
entries, to the clerk of the county of Kings; who must file it, and
make the appropriate entries in his docket of judgments. When the
entries have been made, the fine, with interest, becomes a lien upon
the real property of the person fined, as if it was recovered by a judg­
ment in the same court; and an execution to collect it may be issued,
directed to the sheriff of the county of Kings, as upon a judgment.
The commissioner bas, in relation to the execution, and the satisfaction
of the fine, all the powers of the attorney for a party recovering such
a judgment, in relation to the judgment, and the execution issued 
thereupon. 
§ 1157. The lien, created by such a docket, must be discharged by
the county clerk, on filing with him the commissioner's certilica.ta of
payment. 
§ 1158. If the commissioner of jurors, or either of his assistants, or
a clerk or other person, employed by him, corruptly and without sufficient cause, omits the name of a. person, duly drawn, from a panel of 
trial jurors, or the ballot, containing the name of such a person, from
either of the boxes prescribed in this article ; or, directly or indirectly,
receives a fee, reward, compensation, or advantage, in consideration
or, or as an inducement to such an omission; he is gnilty of a. felony,
and shall, on conviction, be punished by imprisonment in a State prison,
for a term not less than two, nor more than five years. 
§ 1159. A willful omission, by the commissioner, of a duty required
of him by this article, other than that specified in the last section, is a 
misdemeanor.
§ 1160. A person, to whom application is made, within the county 
of Kings, by an aseessor, or by the commissioner of jurors, or either
of his assistants, for information, as to a fact, upon which the liability 
of himself, or any other person, to serve as a trial juror, depends, and
who refuses to give iuformation relating thereto, which he can give, or 
knowingly gives false information relating thereto; or a person who
knowingly makes to an assessor,' or to the commissioner of jurors, or a
person acting by his authority, a false representation as to the identity,
residence, or any other matter, relating to a. jnror, duly drawn, and
placed on a panel to be notified; or who knowingly retains, conceals, 
suppresses, or willfully destroys, a notice to attend, left at the residence
or place of business of another, who bas been drawn as trial juror, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. 
§ 1161. A physician, who knowingly gives a false certificate, or
makes a false representation, for the purpose of enabling or assisting 
a person, to be discharged, excused, or exempted from service, as ·a
trial juror in the couuty or Kings, is gnilty of a misdemeanor. 
§ 1162. The commissioner of jurors must make a yearly report to the
board of supervisors, of all proceedings had before him, or by him, in 
the discharge of his duties; and he must pay over to the ~ounty
treasurer, at least once in each three months, all money in his bands, 
which be has received as commissioner. 
TITLE X
AlmOLB 1. Formation of the jury.
9. The verdict. 
TITLE V. 
Trial bg fu'l'1J 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
FoBXA.TION OJ' THB JURY. 
8JicTJo1' 1163. Clerk to prepare ballots of juro1'8 for trial.
1164. Clerk to clraw ballots, 
1185, Mode of drawing ballots.
1166. Persons drawn, ete., to form the Jury. 
1167. Ballots drawn, when to be deposited in a eecond bes.
1168. Id.; when to be retumed to the firet box. 
1169. Ballots or absentees. etc., to be retumed to 6J'llt. box.
1170. New jury may be drawn while first is empaneled.
1171. When t&lesmen to be procured, or jurors drawn from third box.
1172. When talesmen to be procured.
1173. If sheriff is a party, court may appoint & person to act for him.
1174. Duty or sheriff and of talesmen.
1175. Jury competent, although containing none of original panel. 
ll 7tS. Two peremptory challenges in a civil action.
1177. No challenge allowed because officer drawing is a pa.tiy, etc. 
1178. No challenge allowed because officer notifying is a party, etc. 
1179. Challenges in penal actions.
1180. Challenges how tried. Exceptions to and review of the determina­ 
§ 1168. At the opening of a term of a court of record at which issues
of fact are to be tried by jury, the clerk must cause ballots, uniform, 
as nearly as may be, in appearance, to be prepared, by writing the
name of each person, returned to the term as a trial juror, with bis
proper additions, on a separate piece of paper. He must roll up or
fold each ballot, in the same manner, as nearly as may be, so as to 
resemble the others, and so that the name is not visible. The ballots
must be deposited in a sufficient box, from which they must be drawn, 
as _prescribed in this article. 
§ 1164. When an issue of fact, to be tried by a jury, is brought to 
trial, the clerk, under the direction of the court, must openly draw,
out of the box, as many of the ballots, one after another, as are suffi­ 
cient. to form a jury.
§ 1165. Before the first ballot is drawn, the box must be closed and 
well shaken, so as thoroughly to mix the ballots ; and the clerk must
draw each ballot, without seeing the name written on any of them,
through an aperture, made in the lid of the box, large enough only 
to admit bis hand conveniently. 
§ 1166. The first t.welve persons who appear, as their names are
drawn and called, and are approved as indifferent between the parties, 
and not discharged or excused, must be sworn; and constitute the jury 
to try the issue. 
tion of the court, in reference thereto. 
§ 1167. The ballots, containing the names of the jurors so swom, 
must be then deposited in another box, and there kept, a.part from the
other ballots, until that jury is discharged. 
§ 1168. Aft.er that jury is discharged, the ballots containing their
names must be again rolled up or folded, as prescribed in section eleven
hundred and sixty-three of this act, and returned to the box, from which
they were first taken ; and the same course must be pursued, as often 
as an issue is brought to trial by a jury.
§ 1169. The ballot, containing the name of a juror, who is absent, 
when his name is drawn or called, or is set aside, or excused from serv­
ing on that trial, must be again rolled up or folded, in the same manner 
as before, and returned to the box, containing the undrawn ballots, as 
soon as the jury is sworn.
§ 1170. If an issue is brought to trial by a jury, while a jury is 
empaneled in another ca.use, at the same term, and not then discharged,
the court may order a jury, for the trial of that issue, to be drawn out
of the box containing the ballots then undrawn; but, in any other case, 
the ballots, containing the names of all the trial jurors, returned at,
and attendin~ the term, must be placed together in the same box, 
before a jury is drawn therefrom. 
§ 1171. If a sufficient number of j_urors, duly drawn and notified,
Go not attend, or cannot be obtained, to form a trial jury, the eouri 
may, in any county except Westchester, direct the sheriff to !'6'1uire
he attendance of such a number of talesmen, from the bystanders, or 
from the county &t Ia.rge, qua.lifted to serve as trial jurors, as it deem
sufficient for the purpose. In Westchester county, the court mus 
direct the sheriff to draw & sufficient number of ballots from the firs 
box, specified ih section ten hundred and thirty-eight of this act if
there is not a sufficient number of ballots remaining therein, to dra
the residue from the second box, specifled in section ten hundred an
fifty-one of this act. In any other county, except New-York an
Kings, it may, in its discretion, instead of directing him to require
t&lesmen to attend, direct him to draw a sufficient number of ballots
from the third box, specified in section ten hundred and fifty-two of
this act. In either case, the sheriff must notify the persons thus dra 
to attend forthwith, or upon a day fixed by the court. If, for any rea­
son a sufficient number of jurors to try the issue is not obtained,fro
the persons notified, under an order made as prescribed in this section,
the court may make another order, or successive orders, until a suffi­
cient number is obtained; and in making each order, the court may
exercise the same discretion,as in making the !irst order. 
§ 1172. In any county, except New-York, Kings, or Westchester, the
court may also direct the sheriff to require the attendance of such a 
number of qualified talesmen, for the trial of an issue of fact, as it deems
sufficient, where, by reason of one or more juries being empaneled, or 
for any other reason, no ballot. remains undrawn; or where, in consequeuce of jurors being set aside, a juror cannot be obtained, for the trial
of that issue, from the list of those returned. 
§ 1173. If, iu a case specified in the last two sections, the sheriff is a
party to the issue, the court must appoint 8. disinterested person, to act 
iu place of the sheriff. For that purpose, t.he person so appointed pos- 
&etstietS all the powers, and is subject to all the duties and liabilities of
the sheriff, with respect to the matters specified in those sections. 
§ 1174. The sheriff, or person appointed by the court, must notify the
requisite number of persons to attend, and make return thereof, as prescribed in section ten hundred and forty-eight of this act; except that
each person must be required to attend forthwith. Each person 80 notified must attend forth with, and, unless excused by the court or set aside,
must serve as a juror upon the trial. For a neglect or refusal 80 to do,
be may be tined, in the same manner as a trial juror, regularly drawn
and notified, as prescribed in this chapter ; · and he is subject to the
same exceptions and challenges, 88 any other trial juror. 
§ 1175. It is not e. valid objection to a jury, procured as prescribed i~
the last four sections, that it contains none of the jurors origina.llyt 
returned to the term, or is only patially composed of such jurors. 
§ 1176. Upon the trial of an issue of fact, joined in a civil action, in 
& court of record, or not of record, each party may peremptorily challenge not more than two of the persons, drawn as jurors for the trial. 
§ 1177. It is not a good cause of challenge, to the panel or array ofpn
trial jurors, in an action in a. court of record, that the officer who dre"1 
them is a party to, or interested in the action, or counsel or a.ttorne)i
for, or related to, a party. 
§ 1178. It is not a good cause of challenge to the panel or array of
trial jurors, in an action in a court of record, that they were notified to
attend by an officer, who is a party to, or interested in, the action, or
related to a party; unless it is alleged in the challenge, and is estabIished, that one or more of the jurors drawn were not notified, and that 
the omission was intentional.
§ 1179. In a. penal action, in a court of record, or not of record, to 
recover a sum of money, it is not a good cause of challenge to a trial
juror, or to an officer who notified the trial jurors, that the juror or the.~~:.. 
fli • li bl to ta • it to ty hi h be
o cer rs ia e pay xes, m a ci y, wn, or conn , w ic may 
benefited by the recovery.
§ 1180. An objection to the qualifications of a juror is available only 
upon a. challenge. A challenge oC a juror, or a cbanente to the panel
or array of jurors, must be tried and determined by the court only. 
ither party may except to the determination, and it may be reviewed. 
t" r ,. t · f I both h ·
upon a que- ton o rac , or a quesnou o aw, or , as w ere an issue 
of fact presented by the pleadings is tried by the court; except that
where one or more exceptions are taken, to the rulings of the court, made 
after the jury is empaneled, an exception to the determination of a
challenge must be beard at the same time ; and the case must contain
the matters necessary to present it, upon the facts, or the law, or both. 
TITLE X
8BOTI01' 1181. Discharge of jury failing to agree.
1182. Plaintiff cannot submit to nonsuit after jury retiree.
1183. In action to recover money, jw-y to &88et!l8 damages.
1184. How double, treble, or increased damages, found and awarded. 
1185. When verdict to be taken, subject to the opinion of the court.
1186. General and special verdict defined. 
1187. General or special verdict, when rendered ; Bpeci&l finding with 
general verdict.
1188. Special finding controls general verdict.
1189. Entry of verdict; subsequent proceedings. 
§ 1181. Where a jury is empaneled to try an issue, to make an
inquiry, or to &88088 damages, in an action in a court of record, or not. 
of record, or in a special proceeding before an officer, if the jurors cannot agree, after being kept together, for such a time as is deemed rea­
sonable, by the court before which, or the officer before whom, they
were empaneled, t.he court or officer may discharge them, and issue a
precept for a new jury, or order another jury to be drawn, as the case
requires; and the same proceedings must be had before the new jury,
as if it was the jury first empaneled.
§ 1182. It is not necessary, in an action in a court of record, to call
the plaintifff, when the jurors are about to deliver their verdict; and
the plaintifff, in such an action, canuot submit to a nonsuit, after the
cause has been committed to the jury, to consider of the verdict. 
§ 1183. In an action to recover a sum of money only, if a verdict is
found, either in favor of the plaintifff, or in favor of a defendant, who 
bas set up a counterclaim for a sum of money, the jury must aseeee
the amount of damages. The jury may also, under the direction of 
the court, assess the amount of the damages, where the court direets
judgmeut for the plaintifff', on the pleadings. 
§ 1184. Where double, treble or othee increased damages are given
by statute, single damages only are to be found by the jury, except in 
a case where tlie statute prescribes a different rule. The sum so found
must be increased by the court, and judgment rendered accordingly. 
§ 1185. Where, upon the trial of an issue by a jury, the case presents
only questions of law, the judge may direct the jury to render a verdict, 
subject to the opinion of the court. Notwithstanding that such aver­
diet has been rendered, the judge holding the trial term may, at the 
same term, set aside the verdict, and direct judgment to be entered for
either party, with like effect and in like manner,as if such a direction
had been given at the trial. An exception to such a direction may be
taken as prescribed in section nine hundred and ninety-four of this act. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
THB VBBDICT. 
§ 1186. A genera venue is one, y w ic e jury pronounces, gen
era.Hy, upon all or any of the issues, in favor either of the plaintifff, o
of the defendant. A special verdict is one, by which the jury fin 
the facts only, leaving the court to determine, which party is entitle
to judgmeut thereupon. 
§ 1187. In au action to recover a sum of money only, or real property, or a chattel, the jnry ruay render a general or a special verdict, 
in its discretion. lu any other action, except where one or more
specific questions of fact, stated under the direction of the court, are
tried by 8. jury, the co1,1rt may direct the j,~ry to. find 8. special verd~ct, 
upon all or any of the tssues. Where the jury finds a geueral verdict,
the court may instruct it to find also specially, upon one or more questions of fact, stated iu writing. The special verdict or special finding
must be in writing; it must be filed with the clerk, and entered in the 
mi nutes.
§ 1188. Where a special finding is inconsistent with a general ver- 
diet, the former controls the latter, and the court must render judgment
accord i ng- I y. 
§ 1189. When the jnry renders a verdict, or finds npon one or more
specific questions of fact, stated under the direction of the court, the/ 
clerk must make an entry in his minutes, specifying the time and\
place of the trial; the names of the jurors and witnesses; the verdict,( 
or the questions and findings thereupon, as the case requires; and thel
direction, if any, which the court gives, with respect to the subsequent 
proceedings. Upon the application of the party in whose favor a general verdict is rendered, the clerk must enter judgment, in conformity
to the verdict, unless a different direction is given by the cour«, or it 
is otherwise specially prescribed by law. 
TITLE VI. 
Miscellaneous promsions, including tJwse 'relating to embracery, and other
acts of misconduct. 
8•CT10N 1190. Trials by jury to be as herein provided; juries or part aliens abolished. 
1191. Venire not necesea.ry.
1192. Jurors not to he questioned !or their verdict.
1193. Penalty where juror take8 girt, etc.
11H4. Emhracery; penalty therefore.
1195. Penalty for juror's non-attendance in special proceeding.
1196. Sheriff, etc., to keep jm7 in special proceeding; penalty.
1197. Notice of imposition of tine.
1198. Special return of delinquency and fine to county court.
1199. Collection or remission of flue. 
§ 1190. A trial by a jury, of an issue of fact, joined in a civil action,
in a court of rec~rc~, must be. had, as yrescribed .in this chapter; exc~pt 
in a case where 1t. is otherwise specially prescribed by law. An alien
is not entitled to a jury, composed in part of aliens or strangers, in an 
action or special proceeding, civil or criminal. 
§ 1191. A venire to procure jurors cannot be issued in a civil action,
brought in a court of record, except as specially prescribed by law. 
§ 1192. A juror shall not be questioned, and is not subject to an
action, or other liability, civil or criminal, for a verdict rendered by him,
in an action in a court of record, or not of record, or in a special pro­ 
ceeding before an officer, except by indictment, for corrupt conduct, in
a case prescribed by law. 
§ 1193. A person, drawn or notified to attend, as a trial juror, in an
action in a court of record, or not of record, or in a special proceeding
before an officer, who takes any thing to render his verdict, or receives,
from a party to the action or special proceeding, a gift or gratuity, for­
feits ten times the sum, or ten times the value of that, which he took
or received, to the party to the action or special proceeding, aggrieved
thereby; and is also liable to that party, for his damages sustained
thereby; besides being subject to the punishment, prescribed by Jaw. 
§ 1194. An embraceor, who procures a person, drawn or notified to 
attend, as a trial juror, to take gain or profit, cont.rary to the last sec­
tion, forfeits ten times the sum, or ten times the value of that, which
was so ta ken, to the party aggrieved thereby ; and is also liable to
that party for his damages sustained thereby; besides being subject to
the punishment, prescribed by law. 
§ 1195. A person, who has been lawfully and personally notified to
attend, ae a trial juror, to inquire into a matter or thiug, or to hear and 
try a controversy, in a special proceeding, pending before a judge, jus­
tice of the peace, commissioner, or other officer, and who willfully neglects to attend, as required by the notice, may be fined by the officer,
in a sum not exceediug twenty-five dollars. But this section does not
extend to a case, where special provision is made by law, for punishing
the default of a trial juror. · 
§ 1196. A sheriff', constable, or other officer, who notified jurors to
attend, in a case specified in the last section, must, when directed by
the officer, before whom the special proceeding is pending, attend, and
take charge of the jury. For a willful neglect to obey such a direction,
or for any misconduct, while attending the jury, by which a. right or
remedy of a party to the special proceeding may be impaired or preju­
diced, he must be fined, by that officer, in a sum not exceeding tweuty­
five dollars. 
§ 1197. Where a fine is imposed, in a case specified in the last two sections, written notice thereof must be served upon the person fined, 
to the end that he may apply to the officer imposing it, for the remission
of the whole or a part thereof, upon proof that he bad a reasonable ex­
cuse for his neglect or misconduct, or that other good cause exists for
the remission. 
§ 1198. If, within thirty days after the service of the notice, the Cne
has not been remitted by the officer imposing it, he must make a special
return of the delinquency or misconduct, for which the fine was im­
posed, and of the amount of the fine, accompanied with proof, by affi- 
davit, of service of the notice specified in the last section, to the next
term of the county court of the county, in which the delinquent resides. 
§ 1199. The county clerk must deliver t.o the district-attorney, a copy
of the return and of the affidavit, at the time when he delivers to him
copies of the minutes of fines, imposed by the county court. The fine
must be collected, or it may be remitted or reduced, in the same man­
ner as a. fine imposed by the county court, upon a defaulting trial j uror, 
TITLE 1.-JUDGKBNT ffl AN ACTION. 
TITLE 11.-JUDGIIBNTS TAXBN WITHOUT PROCB88. 
TITLE III.- v A.CA.TING OR SETTING ABIDB A JUDGKDT, POB. IRB.BGtJ­
LAB.ITY OR BRBOR IN PA~. 
Judgmtmt in an action. 
An!CL11 l. General provisions.
~. llode or ta.king, entering, and enrorcma- a judgment. 
8. Docketing a judgment] effect thereof, a.s a lien upon real property a 
BUSpending and discharging the lien ; eatisf'action and Ulignment of 
a judgment. 
CHAPTER XI. 
JUDGMENTS. 
TITLE I. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
G•lOUlil Paov1s1on. 
a.anon ltoo. Definition of final judgment.
*1201. Definition of interlocutory judgment. 
li02. When judgment may be entered.
1203. Judgment to be entered at a term held by one judge.
1204. Judgment may be for or against any or the parties.
1206. When a several judgment may be taken.
1206. Judgment for or against a married woman.
1207. When judgment for plaintifff not to exceed judgment demanded. 
1208. Rate of damages.
\ 1209. Effect of judgment diemil!Bing the complaint. 
'i'-J,o· 1210. Judgment against a dead person.
· ~· \ Ulll. Judgment to bear interest. 
"'·
§ 1200. A judgment us either interlocutory, or ihe final determination of the right.e or the parties in the action. 
§ 1202. Judgment may be entered in term or vacation.
§ 1203. Judgment must be entered, in the first instance, pursuant to 
the direction or the court, at a term held by one judge ; except where
special provision us otherwise made by law. 
§ 1204. Judgment may given tor or agams one or more p a1nti s,
and for or against one or more defendants. It may determine the
ultimate rights of the parties on the same side, as between themselves;
and it may gran], to a defendant, any affirmative relief, to which he is
entitled. J. n · "/ 11' 
§ 1205. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and a
several judgment is proper, the court may, in its discretion, render
judgment, or require the plaintifff to take judgment, against one or 
more of the defendants ; and direct that the action be severed, and
proceed against the others, as the only defendants therein. 
§ 1206. Judgment for or against a married woman, may be rendered
and 
enforced, in a court of record, or not of record, as if she was single. 
§ 1207. Where there is no answer, the judgment shall not be more
favorable to the plaintifff', than that demanded in the complaint. 
Where there is an answer, the court may permit the plaintifff to take
any judgment, consistent with the case made by the complaint, and
embraced within the issue. 
§ 1208. Where either party is entitled to recover damages, he may
recover any rate of damages, which he might have heretofore recovered, 
for the same cause of action. 
§ 1209. A final judgment, dismissing the complaint, either before or
fter a trial, rendered' in an action hereafter commenced, does not pre­ 
vent a new action for the same cause of action, unless it expressly
declares, or it appears by the judgment roll, that it is rendered upon 
be merits. 
§ 1210. Where a judgment for a sum of money, or directing the pay­
ment of money, is entered against a party, after hie death, in a case 
where it may be so taken, by special provision of law, a memorandum
of the party's death must be entered, with the judgment, in the judg­
ment-book, indorsed on the jud1nt-roll, and noted on the margin 
of the docket of the judgment. uch a judgment does not become a
lien upon the real property, or c attels real, of the decedent; but it
establishes a debt, to be paid in the course of administrati~ 
§ 1211. A judgment for a sum of money, rendered in a court of
record, or not of record, or a judgment rendered in a court of record,
directing the payment of money, bears interest from the time when it
is entered. But where a judgment directs that money paid out shall
be refunded or repaid, the clirection includes interest from the time
when the motley was paid,' unless the contrary is expressed. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
MoDB OF TA.KI1'G, B1'1'BJlfflG, AND BNFOBOllfG A. JuDGJIBllT. 
8BOTiolf 1212. Judgment by defa.ult, in certain actions on contract ; how ta.ken.
HiB. ·Amount of judgment in such cases ; how determined.
1214. Application to court for judgment by default; when necees&ry. 
1215. Proceedings on such an ap:J.)lica.tion.
1216. Application for judgment, m case of service by publication. 
Ul'J. · Attachment and undertaking for restitution, required in certain 
actions.
1218. When judgment ca.nnot be ta.ken against infant 
1219. When & defendant in default is entitled to notice. 
1220.- --When action may he ·severed. if iesuee of law .aud iaauee of fact presented. 
H21. Judgment bow ta.ken, i.fter trial of iam.ee of law and isln1ea of fact. 
in the same action. 
1222. Id.; after trial of issue of law only.
12'J3. Proceedings upon application under the last two sectiona.
1224. Id.; upon interlocutory judgment, a.flirmed on appeal to the gen- 
eral term.
1226. Judgment, after trial by jury of specific questions of fact.
12-26. Id.; after reference to determine specific questions oC fact. 
122i. Id.; upon.motion for new trial, beard &t general term.
1228. Id. ; upon tJ'ial by court or referee of the whole issue of fact.
1229. In matrimonial causes, judgment can be rendered only by the court.
12a0. Fina.I judgment upon decision or report awarding interlocutory 
judgment, etc.
1231. Id. ; how final judgment entered and settled in certain cases.
1232. Interlocutory reference or inquisition; bow reviewed,
1233. Motion for judgment upon & special verdict, etc.
1284. Id. ; upon verdict subject to opinion of court.
1235. Interest on verdict, etc., to be included in recovery.
1236. Clerk to keep judgment-book; judJment to be entered therein.
1237. Judgment-roll to be filed; of wha.t It consists.
1238. lei. ; by whom prepared.
1289. Time oC filing judgment-roll to be noted.
1240. When a judgment may be enforced by execution.
1241. When a judgment may be enforced by punishment for disobeying it.
1242. Real ~roperty ; bow sold. Effect of conveyance. 
1243. Secunty upon sale by referee.
1244. Conveyance to et&te name of party. 
§ 1212. In an action specified in section four hundred and twenty of
this act, where the summons was personally served upon the defend·
ant, and & copy of the complaint, or a notice stating the sum of money
for which jud~ent will he taken, was served with the summons} or
where the defendant has appeared, but has made default in pleading,
the plaintifff may take judgment by default, as follows: 
1. If the defendant has made default in appearing, the plaintifff
must file proof of the service of the summons, and of a copy of the
complaint or the notice, and also proof, by affidavit, that the defend ..
ant has not appeared; whereupon the. clerk must enter final judgment
in his favor. 
2. If the defendant has seasonably appeared, but has made default
in pleading, the plaintifff' must file proof of the service of the summons
and of the appearance, or of the appearance only, and also proof, by
affidavit, of the defanlt; whereupon the clerk must enter final judg ..
ment in his favor. 
If the defendant has made default in appearing or pleading, &nd
the case is not one where the clerk can enter final judgment, as pre­
scribed In either of the foregoing subdivisions of this section, the
plaintifff must apply to the court for judgment, as prescribed in section
twelve hundred and fourteen of this ect; 
§ 1213. Where final judgment may be entered by the clerk, as prescribed in the last section, the amount thereof must be. determined as 
follows : '
1. If the complaint is verified, the judgment must be entered for the 
sum, for which the complaint. demands judgment; or, at the plaintifff's
option, for a smaller sum ; and if a computation of interest is necessary
it may be made by the clerk, 
2. If the complaint is not verified, the clerk must assess the amount 
due to the plaintifff', by computing the sum due upon an instrument for
the payment of money only, the non-payment of which constitutes a
cause of action, stated in the complaint; and by ascertaining, by the
examination of the plaintifff', upon oath, or by other competent proof,
the amount due to him for any other cause of action, stated in the com­
plaint. If an instrument, specified in this subdivision, has been Jost,
so that it cannot be produced to the clerk, he must take proof -:f its
loss, and of its contents. Either party may require the clerk to reduce 
to writing and file the assessment, and the oral proof, if any, taken
thereupon. 
§ 1214. Where the summons was personally served upon the defend­
ant, within the State, and he has made default in appearing, or when 
the defendant bas appeared, but has made default in pleading ; and
the case is not one, where the clerk can enter final judgment, as pre­
scribed in the last two sections, the- plaintifff must apply to the court
for judgment. Upon the application he must file, if the default was
in appearing, proof of service of the summons ; or, if the default was
in pleading. proof of appearance, and also if a copy of the complaint
was demanded proof of service thereof, upon the defendant's attorney;
and in either case, proof, by affidavit, of the default which entitles him 
to judgment. 
§ 1215. The court must thereupon render the judgment, to which the
plaintifff is entitled. It may, without a jury or with a jnry, if one is 
present in court, make a computation or assessment, or take an account,
or proof of a fact, for the purpose of enabling it to render the judg­
ment, or to carry it into effect; or it may, in its discretion, direct a 
reference, or a writ of iuquiry, for either purpose; except. that where
the action is brought to recover damages for a personal injury, or an
injury to property, the damages must be ascertained by means of 9 
writ of inquiry. Where a reference or a writ of inquiry is directed
the court may direct, that the report or inquisition be returned to t.h,.
court for its further action; or it may, in its discretion, except where
special provision is otherwise made by law, omit that direction; h~
which case, final judgment may be entered by the clerk, in accordance
with the report of the referee, or for the damages ascertained by the
inquisit.ion, without any further application. 
§ 1216. Where the summons was served upon the defendant, without
the State, or otherwise than personally, if the defendant does not
demand a copy of the complaint or plead as the case requires, within
twenty days after the service is complete, the plaintifff may apply to 
the court, for the jndgment demanded in the complaint. Upon such
an application be must file proof that the service is complete, and proof
by affidavit of the defendant's default. The court must require proof
of the cause of action, set. forth in the complaint, to be made, eit.her
before the court, or before a referee, appointed for that purpose. If the
defendant is a. non-resident, or a foreign corporation, the court must
require the plaintifff, or his agent, or attorney, to be examined on oath,
respecting any payments to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on
account of his demand, and must render the judgment, to which the
plaintifff is entitled. But before rendering judgment, the court may, in
any case, in its discretion, require the plaintifff to file an undertaking,
to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution of any estate
or effects which may be directed by tne judgment to be trausferred 
or delivered, or the restitution of any money that may be collected
under or by virtue of the judgment, in case the defendant or his
representative applies and is admitted to defend the action, and succeeds in his defense. 
§ 1217. A judgment shall not be rendered for a sum of money only,
upon an application made pursuant to the last section, except in an
action specified in section six hundred and thirty-five of this act. 
Where the defendant is a non-resident, or a foreign corporation, and
bas not appeared, the plaintifff, upon the application for judgment in 
such an action, must produce and file the following papers : 
1. Proof, by affidavit, that a warrant of attachment, granted in the
action has been levied upon property of the defendant. 
2. A description of the property, so attached, verified by affidavit;
with a statement of the value thereof, according to the inventory. 
3. The undertaking mentioned in section twelve hundred and sixteen, if one has been required. . 
§ 1218. A judgment oy default shall not be taken against an infant
defendant, until twenty days have expired since the appointment of a~~ 
guardian ad litem for him.
§ 1219 A defendant, against whom judgmertt is taken, pursuant 
to the foregoing sections of this article, is entitled to notice as
follows : 
1. If he has appeared generaUy, but has me.de default in pleading,
lie is entitled to at least five days' notice of the time and place of an 
assessment by the clerk, and to at least eight days' notice of the time.
and place of an application to the court for judgment. 
2. In a case where an application for judgment must be made to th~
court, the defendant may serve upon the plaintifff's attorney, at any
time before the application for judgment, a written demand of notic
of the execution of any reference, or writ of inquiry, which may be 
granted upon the application. Such a demand is not an appearance i
the action. It must be subscribed by the defendant, in person, or by
an attorney or agent, who must add to his signature his office address,
with the particulars, prescribed in section four hundred and seventeen
of thie act, concerning the office address of the plaintifff's attorney.
Thereupon at least five days' notice of the time and place of the execution of the reference, or writ of inquiry, must be given to the defendant, by service thereof upon the person, whose name is subscribed to
the demand, in the manner prescribed iu this act, for service of a pape
upon an attorney in an action. 
§ 1220. Where an issue of law and an issue of fact arise, with respect
to different causes of action, set forth in the complaint, and final judg- 
ment can be taken, with respect to one or more of the causes of action,
without prejudice to either party in maintaining the action, or a defense 
or counterclaim, with respect to the other causes of action, or in the
recovery of final judgment uj.on the whole issue, the court may, in its
discretion, and at any stage of the action, direct that the action be
divided into two or more actions, as the case requires. 
§ 1221. Where one or more issues of law, and one or more issues of
fact, arise in the same action, and all the issues have been tried, final 
judgment upon the whole issue must be taken as follows:
1. Where an application must be made to the court, for judgment 
upon the issue last tried, the application must be for jndgment, upon
the whole issue; and judgment must be rendered accordingly. 
2. Where the action is triable by a jury, and the issue last tried is
tried at a term of the court, the application for judgment, upon the
whole issue, may be entertained, in the discretion of the court, at that
term, and with or without notice; if not 80 entertained, it must be 
heard as a motion.
8. Where the issue last tried is tried before a referee, bis report must 
award the proper judgment upon the whole iesue, unless otherwise
prescribed in the order of reference. 
§ 1222. Final judgment upon an issue oflaw, where no issue of fact 
remains to be tried, and final judgment has not been directed as pre-·
cribed* in section ten hundred and twenty-one of this act, may be 
entered upon application to the court, or by tho clerk in an action·
specified in section four hundred and twenty of this act. 
§ 1223. Upon an application, by either party, to the court, for final
judgment, after the decision of an issue of law, ae prescribed in the l..n
two sections, the court bas the powers specified in section one thousand 
two hundred and fifteen of this act, upon an application for judgment
by the plaintifff. Where final judgment may be awarded ina referee's
report, as prescribed in section twelve hundred and twenty-oRe of this
act, the referee may make a computation, or an assessment, or take an
account, or proof of a fact, for the purpose of enabling him to award
the proper judgment, or enabling the court to carry it into effect; and
he may ascertain and fix the damages, as a jury may do, upon the
execution of a writ of inquiry. 
§ 1224. When an order or judgment is wholly-or partly affirmed upon
an appeal to the general term, and no issue of fad remains to be tried, 
the general term may, in its discretion, render final judgment, unless
it permits the appellant to amend or plead over. 
§ 1225. In an action triable by the court, where one or more specific
questions of fact, arising upon the issues, have been tried by a jury; 
may be taken, upon the application of either party, u 
follows:
1. If aJl the issues of fact in the action are determined by the find· 
ings of the jury, or the remaining issues of fact have been determined 
by the decision of the court, or the report of a referee, an appli­
cation for judgment, upon the whole issue, may be made as upon a
motion. 
2. Ir one or more issues of fact remain to be tried, judgment may be 
rendered upon the whole issue, at the term of the court where, or by 
direction of the referee by whom, they are tried. 
§ 1226. Where a reference has been made, to report upon one or more
specific questions of fact, arising upon the issue, and the remaining 
issues have been tried, judgment must be taken, upon the apcication
of either pa.rt.y, as prescribed in section one thousand two bun an 
twenty-one of this act. 
§ 1227. Where a motion for a new trial, made in the first instance at 
ja general term is denied, judgment may be taken, as if the motion
{for a uew trial had not been made, after the expiration or uwr Au• 
from the entry of the order, and' the service, upon the attorneyTor ibe
adverse party, of a copy thereof, and notice of the entry; but uot
before. 
§ 1228. Where the whole -issue is an issue of fact, which was tried
by a referee, the report stands as a decision of the court. Except
where it is otherwise expressly prescribed by law, judgment upon such 
a report, or upon the decision of the court, upon the trial of the whole
issue of fact without a jury, may be entered by the clerk, as directed~~
therein, upon filing the decision or report. 
§ 1229. In an action to annul a marriage, or for a divorce or separation, jndgrnent cannot be taken, of course, upon a referee's report, as 
prescribed in the last section, or where the reference was made, as prescribed in section one thousand two hundred and fl.ft.eeu of this act. 
Where a reference is made in such an action, the testimony, and the
other proceedings upon the reference, must be certified to the eourt, 
by the referee, with his report; and judgment must be rendered by
the court. 
§ 1230. In a case, not provided for in the foregoing sections of this article, where the decision, upon a trial by the court, without a jury, 
or 'the report, upon a trial by a referee directs an interlocutory judgment to be entered; and the party afterwards becomes entitled to a 
final judgment, an application for the latter may be made, as upon a.
motion. And where a judgment requires the appointment of a referee, 
to do any act thereunder, the referee must be appointed by the judgment or by the court, upon motion, except as otherwise prescribed in
the next section, 
§ 1231. In an action triable by the court, an interlocutory judgment
rendered upon a default in appearing or pleading, or pursuant to the
direction contained in a decision or report, may state the substance of 
the final judgment, to which the party will be entitled. It may also
direct, that the final judgment be settled by a judge, or a. referee. In 
that case, final judgment shall not be entered, until a settlement
thereof, subscribed by the judge or referee, is filed. Where an inter­
locutory jndgment awards costs, they may be awarded generally, without specifying the amount thereof. Where the final judgment is
directed to be settled, and the costs have not been taxed, wheu the
settlement thereof is filed, a blank for the amount of the costs must be 
left in the settlement ; and the costs must be· taxed, and the blank
filled up accordingly, by the cJerk, when the final judg1'1ent is
entered. · 
§ 1232. Where a reference, or a. writ of inquiry, directed as pre­
scribed in section one thousand and fifteen, or section one thousand
two hundred and fifteen of this act, has been executed, either party 
may apply for an order, directing a new hearing, or a new writ of
inquiry, upon proof, by affidavit, that error was committed, to his pre- 
judice, 'upon the hearing, or in the report, or upon the execution of
the writ or in the inquisition. In a proper case, the application may
be granted, after judgment, has been entered. In that case, the judgmeut may be set aside, either then or after the new hearing, or the
execution of the new writ, as justice requires. 
§ 1231. A motion for judgment, upon a special verdict, may be made
by either party; and must, in the first instance, be beard and decided, 
at a term held by one judge.
§ 1234. A motion for judgment, upon a verdict subject to the opiniof
of the· court, may be made by either party; and must be heard an
-d ld d t th· 1 te 
eci e a e genera rm. 
§ 1235. Where final judgment is rendered for a sum of money,
awarded by a verdict, report, or decision, interest upon the sum 
awarded, from the time when the verdict was rendered, or the report
or decision was made, to the time of entering judgment, must be com- 
puted by the clerk, added to the sum awarded, and included in the
amount of the judgment. 
§ 1236. The clerk must keep, among the records of the court, a book
for the entry of judgments, styled the "jud~ent-book." Each inter­ 
locutory or final judgment must be entered m the jndg\llent-book, and 
attested by the signature of the clerk; who must note, in the margin
of the entry, the day and year of enterin~ it. It must specify clearly 
the relief granted, or other determination of the action, or of the
issue . 
§ 1287. The clerk upon entering final judgment, must immediately
file the judgment-roll; which must consist, except where special pro­
vision is otherwise made by law of the following papers: the sum­ 
mons; the pleadings, or copies thereof; the final judgment, and the
interlocutory judgment, if any, or copies thereof; and each paper on
file, or a copy thereof, and a copy of each order, which in any way
involves the merits, or necessarily affects the judgment. If judgment
is taken by default, the judgment-roll must also contain the papers
required to be filed, upon so taking judgment, or upon making appli­
cation therefore; together with any report, decision or writ of inquiry,
and return thereto. If judgment is ta.ken after a trial, the jud~ent­
roll must contain the verdict, report, or decision; each offer 1f any,
made as prescribed in this act; and the exceptions or case then on file. 
§ 1288. The judgment-roll must be prepared, and furnished to the
clerk, by the attoruey, for the party, at whose instance the final judg­
ment is entered; except that the clerk must attach thereto the neces­
sary original papers, on fl.le. But the clerk may, at his option, make
up the entire judgment-roll. 
§ 1239. The clerk must make a minute, upon the back of each
judgment-roll, filed in his office, of the time of filing it, specifying 
the year, month, day, hour, and minute. A proceeding to enforce
or collect a final judgment, cannot be taken, until the judgment-roll
is filed. 
§ 1240. In either of the following cases, a final judgment may be
enforced by execution· 
• 
1. Where it is for a sum of money, in favor of either party; or directs
the payment of a sum of money. 
2. Where it is iu favor of the plaintifff, in an action of ejectment, or
for dower. 
8. In an action to recover a chattel, where it awards a chattel to 
either party.
§ 1241. In either of the following cases, a judgment may be enforced, 
by serving a certified copy thereof, upon the party against whom it is
rendered, or the officer or person, who is required thereby, or by law, 
to obey it; and, if he refuses or willfully neglects to obey it, by pun­
ishing him for a contempt of the court. 
I. Where the judgment is final, and cannot bu enforced by execu­
tion, as prescribed in the last section. 
2. Where the judgment is final, and part of it cannot be enforced
by execution, as prescribed in the last section ; in which case, the part 
or parts, which cannot be so enforced, may be enforced as prescribed
in this section. . 
3. Where the judgment is interlocutory, and requires a party to do,
or to refrain from doing, an act ; except in a case specified in the next subdivision. 
4. Where the judgment. requires the payment of money into court,
or to an officer of the court; except where the money is due upon a.
contract, express or implied, or as damages for non-performance of a
contract. In a case specified in this subdivision, if the judgment is
final, it may be enforced, as prescribed in this section, either simulta
neonsly with, or before or after the issuing of an execution thereupon,
as the court directs. 
§ 1242. Except where special provision is otherwise made by law,
real property, adjudged to be sold, must be sold in the county where 
rt is situated, by the sheriff of the county, or by a referee, appointed
by the court for that purpose, who must execute a conveyance to the 
purchaser. The conveyance is effectual, to pass the right title, or
interest of a party, adjudged to be sold; but nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to repeal or modify the provisions of any law
specially regulating the sale of real property under a judgment or a.
decree of any court, in any particular county of the State. 
§ 1248. Where a referee is appointed by the court, to sell real property, the court may provide for his giving such security, as the court 
deems just, for the proper application of the money received upon the
sale: or for the payment thereof by the purchaser, directly to the per- 
son or persons entitled thereto, or their attorneys.
§ 1244. A conveyance of property, sold by virtue of an execution, 
or sold pursuant to a judgment, which specifies the particular party or
parties, whose right, title or interest is directed to be sold, must distinctly state, in the granting clause t.hereof, whose right, title or interest was sold, and is conveyed, without naming, in that clause, any of 
tho other parties to the action ; otherwise, the purchaser is not bound 
to accept the conveyance, and, the officer executing it is liable for the
damages, which the purchaser sustains by the omission, wheth * he 
accepts or refuses to accept it. 
DoolarrrwG 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
0.&.
Jtn>OJOINT J EFPBOT TllllRBOJ' AB A. Lnnr 11P01' BllAL 'PRoPllll'IT J 
8UBPB1'Dlll'G A.lfD DI.SCBABOllfG TBB UU j 8.&.TID'.&.Ol'IOllr A..1fD AsslGB.IIUT 0. A
JuooJIJDl'r. 
8Bcrroll' 1245. Certain clerks to keep docke'.-books.
1246. Id.; to docket judgments.
1247. Filing transcriptll, and docketing judgments thereon. i 
1248, Penalty for clerk's neglect.
1249. Dockets to be public. 
1250. Judg-ment not to be a, lien until docketed.
1251. Real property bound for ten years by a judgment thus docketed. 
1252. Real property may be levied upon a.fter ten years.
1253. Land held under contract not bound by judgment.
1254. Preference of mortgages for purchase money.
1255. Certain time not to be included in the ten yea.rs.
1256. Court may order lien of judgment to be suspended upon appeal.
1257. From what time order suspends the lien,
1258. How lien suspended in any other county.
1259. When and bow lien restored.
1260. Docket of judgment, bow cancelled.
1261. Satisfaction-piece to be given on payment of judgment.
1262. Assignor must acknowledge a.eeignmtmt.
1263. Assignee who is a receiver, etc., may file notice.
1264. Entry in docket, upon return of execution satisfied.
1265. Id.; where execution returned unsatisfied.
1266. Sheriff to give copy of satisfied execution ; clerk to enter satisfaction.
1267. Docket; when to be discharged and cancelled.
1268. Discharge of a judgment against a bankrupt.
1269. Power of courts respecting docket.
1270. Clerk to file and note assignment of judgment.
1271. Judgments of United States courts may be docketed.
1272. To what judgmenf.8 a.nd executions this article applies. 
§ 1245. Each county clerk, each clerk of a superior city court, and
the clerk of the marine court of the city of New-York, must keep one 
or more books, ruled in columns, convenient for making the entries;
prescribed in the next section; in which he must docket, in it.a regular
order and according to its priority, each judgment, which he is required 
by this article to docket. The expense of procuring a new book, when
necessary, is a county charge. 
§ 1246. Each clerk, specified in the last section, must, when he files
a judgment-roll, upon a judgment, rendered in a. court of which he is
clerk, docket the judgment, by enterin~, in the proper docket-book,
the following particulars, under the Initial letter of the surname of the
judgment debtor, in its alphabetical order: . 
1. The name, at length, of the judgment debtor; and also bis resi­ 
dence, title, and trade or profession, if any of them are stated in the
judgment .. 
2. The name of the par+,y, in whose favor the judgment was rendered.
8. The sum, recovered or directed to be paid, in figures.
4. The day, hour, and minute, when the judgment-roll was filed.
5. The day, hour, and minute, when the judgment was docketed in 
bis office.
6. The court in which the judgment was rendered, and if it was ren­ 
dered in the supreme court, the county where the judgment-roll is filed.
7. The name of the attorney for the party recovering the judgment.
If there are two or more judgment debtors, those entries must be 
repeated, under the initial letter of the surname of each. 
§ 1247. A clerk, with whom a judgment-roll is filed, upon ajudgment
docketed as preecribed in the last section, must furnish, to any person
applying therefore; and paying the fees allowed by law, one or more 
transcripts of the docket of the judgment, attested by his signature.
A county clerk, to whom such a trauseript is presented, must, upon 
payment of his fees therefore, immediately file it, and docket the judg­
ment, as prescribed in the la.st section, in the appropriate docket-book,
kept in bis office. 
§ 1248. A clerk who omits, as soon as practicable, to docket a judgment required to be docketed, or to furnish a transcript of a judgment. 
10 docketed in his office, as prescribed in the laet two sections, forfeits,
to the person aggrieved, two hundred and fifty dollars, iu addition to 
the damages sustained by reason of the omission.
§ 1249. A docket-book, kept by a clerk, must he kept open, during 
the business hours fixed by law, for search and examination by any
person. 
§ 1250. A judgment, required to be docketed, as prescribed in this article, neither affects real propert.y or chuttels real, nor is entitled to 
a preference, until tbe judgment-roll is filed, and the judgment
docketed. 
§ 1251. "Except as otherwise specially prescribed by law, a judgment,
hereafter rendered, which is docketed in a county clerk's office, 8.8 pre- 
scribed in this article, binds, and is a charge npon, for teu years after
filing the judgment-roll, and no longer, the real property and chattels
real in that county, which the judgment debtor has, at t.he time of so
docketing it, or which he acquires at any time afterwards, and within
the ten years. 
§ 1252. When ten years after filing the judgment-roll have expired,
real property or a chattel real, which the judgment debtor, or real property which a person, deriving his right or title thereto, as the heir or 
devisee of the judgment debtor, then has, in any county, may be levied
upon, by virtue of an execution against property, issued to the sheriff
of that county, upou a judgment hereafter rendered, by filing, wit.b the
~rk of that county, a notice, subscribed by the sheriff, describing the
j.udgmeut, the execution, and the property levied upon; and, if the
interest levied upon is that of an heir or devisee, specifying that fact,
and the name of the heir or devisee. The notice must be recorded and
indexed by the clerk, as a notice of the pendency of an action. For
that purpose, the judgment debtor, or his heir or devisee, named in the
notice, is regarded as a party to an action. The judgment binds, and 
becomes a charge upon, the right and title thus levied upon, of the
judgment· debtor, or -of his heir or devisee, as the case may be, only
from the time of recording and indexing the notice, and uuti1 the execution is set aside, or returned . 
§ 1253. The interest of a person, holding a contract for the purchase
of real property, is not bound by the docketing of a judgment; and 
~nnot be levied upon or sold, by virtue of an execution issued upon a
Judgment. 
§ 1254. Where real property is sold and conveyed, and, at the same
time, & mortgage thereupon is given by the purchaser, to secure the 
payment of tiie whole or a part of the purchase-money, the lien of the
mortgage, upon that real property, is superior to the lien of a previous 
judgment ~ainst the purchaser.
§ 1255. The time, duriug which a judgment creditor is stayed, by an 
injunction or other order, or by the operation of an appeal, or by express
provision of law, from enforcing & judgment, is not a part of the ten 
.yea.rs, to which the lien of a judgment is limited by this article. But
this section does not extend the time of the lien, as against a purchaser, 
creditor, or mortgagee in good faith.
§ 1256. Where an appeal from a judgment has been perfected, and 
an undertaking baa been given, sufficient to entitle the appellant to a
stay of the execution of the judgment, without an order for that pur- 
pose, thecourt in which the jud~ent was recovered, may, in its discretion and upon such terms as Justice requires, make an order, upon 
·notice to the attorney for the respondent, and to the sureties in the 
undertaking, exempting from the lien of the judgment, as against
judgment creditors, and purchasers and mortgagees in good faith, the
real property or chattels real, upon which the judgment is a lien, or a
portion thereof, specifically described in the order. If all the property,
subject to the lien, is so exempted, the order must direct the clerk, in
whose office the judgment-roll is filed, to make an entry, on the docket
of the judgment, in each place where it appears in the docket-book;
substantially as follows : " Lien suspended upon appeal. See order
entered"; adding the proper date. If a portion only is exempted, the
order must direct the clerk to make, in like manner, an entry, substan­
tially as follows: " Lien partially suspended upon appeal. See order
entered"; adding the proper date. The clerk must, when he files the
motion papers, and enters the order, make the entry or entries in the
docket-book, as required by the order. 
§ 1257. Where an order is made, as prescribed in the l&llt section, by
the supreme court or by a county court, it operates as a suspension of
the lien upon property situated in the county, where the judgment-roll 
is filed, from the time when the order is entered, and the proper entry
made in the docket-book. If the property exempted is situated in
another county, or if the order was made by a court, other than the
supreme court or a county court, the order operates as a suspension,
from the time, when the proper entry is made in the docket-book, kept
by the clerk of that county, as prescribed in the next section. 
§ 1258. The clerk, with whom the order is entered, must, upon pay­ 
ment of his fees therefore, fumish to the party who obtained the order,
one or more transcripts, attested by hie signature, of the docket of the 
judgment, including the entry made upon the docket. A county clerk,
in whose office the judgment is docketed, must, upon payment of his
fees therefore, immediately file such a transcript; and make an entey
upon the docket of the judgment, in each place where it appears in hi!!
docket-book., substantially as follows: "Lien suspended", or, "Lien 
partially suspended", accordinl to the entry upon the original docket,
and also, " See transcript filed ' ; adding the proper date. 
§ 1259. At any time after a judgment, which has ceased to be a lien,
as prescribed in the last three sections, is affirmed, or the appeal
therefrom is dismissed, the lien thereof may be restored, as follows : 
1. The clerk, in whose office the judgment of affirmance, or the order
dismissing the appeal, is entered, must, upon the request of the judg­
ment creditor, docket the judgment anew, as it was originally docketed,
but in the order ()f priority of the new docket; and he must write
upon the new doc"'ket, the words, " Lien restored by redocket"; adding
the date of redocketing. 
2. A transcript of the new docket must be furnished to a county
clerk, in whose office an entry of the suspension of the lien bas been
made, as prescribed in the last two iwctions; and thereupon the judg­
ment must be docketed byhim anew, in the order of the priority of
the new docket. The clerk who so redockete the judgment, must make
an entry upon the new docket, substantially as follows : "Lien restored
by redocket. See transcript filed" ; aduing the date of redoeketing in
his county. 
The lien of the judgment is thereupon restored, for the unexpired
period thereof, as if the order had not been made ; but with like effect
only, as against jud~ent creditors, purchasers, and mo~eea in
good faith, as if the Judgment bad then been first docketed. 
§ 1260. The docket of a judgment must be cancelled and discharged 
by the clerk, in whose office the judgment-roll is filed, upon filing with
him & sa.tisfaction-piece, describing the judgment, and executed as 
follows:
1. Except as otherwise prescribed in the next subdivision, the satis­ 
faction-piece must be executed by the party, in whose favor the judg­
ment was rendered, or his executor or administrator; or, if it is made
within two years after the filing of the judgment-roll, by the attorney
of record of the party. But where the authority of the attorney has
been revoked, a satisfaction by him is uot conclusive, against the
person entitled to enforce the judgment, in respect to a person, who
had actual notice of the revocation, before a payment on the judgment
was made, or a purchase of property bound thereby was effected. 
2. If an assignment of the judgment, executed by the party in
whose favor it was rendered, or his executor or administrator, has been
filed in the clerk's office, the satisfaction-piece most be executed by the
person, who appears, from the &ssignment, or from the last of the sub­
sequent assignments, if any, so filed, showing a continuous chain of title, to be the owner of the judgment; or by his executor or adminis­ 
trator.
3. If the satisfaction-piece is executed by an attorney in fact, in 
behalf of a person authorized to execute it, other than the attorney
•f record, an instrument, containing a power to acknowledge the satis­
faction, must be filed with the satisfaction-piece, unless it has been
recorded, in the proper book for recording deeds, in that or another
county ; in which case, the satisfaction-piece must refer to the record,
and the clerk may, for his own indemnity, require evidence of a record
remaining in another office. 
The execution of each satisfaction-piece or power of attorney must
be acknowledged, before the clerk, or his deputy, and certified by him
thereupon; or it must be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in
like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county where it is filed. 
§ 1261. The person, entitled to enforce a judgment, must execute, and
acknowledge before the proper officer, a satisfaction-piece thereof, at
the request of the judgment debtor, or of a person interested in property bound by the judgment, upon presentation of a satisfaction-piece,
and payment of the sum due upon the judgment, and the fees allowed
by law for ta.king the acknowledgment of a deed. 
§ 1262. A person, who has heretofore executed, or hereafter executes,
a written assignment of a judgment, owned by him, wit bout acknowledging the executed* thereof, before an officer authorized to take the 
acknowledgment of a deed, must so acknowledge it, at the request of
his assignee, or of a subsequent assignee thereof, or of the judgment
debtor, upon presentation of the assignment, and payment of the officer's fees. 
§ 1263. A resident of the State, or a person having an office within
the Sta.te, for the regular transaetion of bueiuess, in person, who
becomes the owner of a judgment, by virtue of a general assi~ment 
for the benefit of creditors, or of an appointment as a receiver, or
trustee or assignee of an insolvent debtor or bankrupt, may file with
the clerk, in whose office the judgment-roll is filed, a notice of the 
&88ignment, or of his appointment, and of his ownership of the judgment. The notice must be subscribed by him, adding to bis signature
his place of residence, and also, if he resides without the State, his 
office address. A notice so filed has the same force and effect, for the
purposes of this article, as if it was an assignment of the judgment. 
§ 1264. Where an execution is returned, wholly or partly satisfied,
the clerk must make an entry of the satisfaction, or partial satisfac­ 
tion, in the docket of the judgment, upon which it was issued. There­
upon the judgment is deemed satisfied, to the extent of the amount 
returned as collected, unless the return is vacated by the court. 
§ 1265. Where an execution is returned wholly unsatisfied, the clerk
must immediately make, in the docket of the judgment, upon which it 
was issued, an entry of the fact, stating the time when the execution
was returned. 
§ 1266. A sheriff, upon being paid the full amount due upon an exe­
cution in his hands, must immediately indorse thereupon a. return of
satisfaction thereof. He must also deliver, to the person making the 
payment, upon the latter's request, and payment of the fees allowed
by law therefore, a certified copy of the execution, and of the return of 
satisfaction thereupon; which may be filed with the clerk of the same
county, who must thereupon cancel and discharge the docket of the
judgment, as if the judgment-roll was filed in his office, and the execu­
tion was returned to him, as satisfied. But this section does not exon­
erate the sheriff, from his duty to return the execution, to the clerk
with whom the judgment-roll is filed. 
§ 1267. The clerk of a county, with whom a judgment has been
docketed, must cancel and discharge the docket thereof, upon the
filing, with him, of a certificate of the clerk, with whom the jndgment- 
roll is filed, showing that the judgment has been reversed, vacated, or
satisfied of record; or the certificate of the clerk of the county, with 
whom a copy of an execution, and of a return of satisfaction thereupon,
have been filed, as prescribed in the last section, showing that they
have been so filed, and the docket cancelled and dischar~ed accordingly. 
§ 1268. At any time after two years have elapsed, smce a bankrupt
was discharged from his debts, pursuant to the acts of'Congrese relating 
to bankruptcy, he may apply, upon proof of his discharge, to the court
in which a judgment was rendered against him, for an order, directing
the judgment to be cancelled and discharged of record. If it appears
that he has been discharged from the payment of that judgment, an
order must be made accordingly; and thereupon the clerk must cancel
and discharge the docket thereof, as if the proper satisfaction-piece of
the judgment was filed. Notice of the application, accompanied with
copies of the papers upon which it is made, must be given to the judg­
ment creditor, unless bis written consent to the granting of the order,
with satisfactory proof of the execution thereof, and, if he is not the
party in 'Whose favor the judgment was rendered, that he is the owner
thereof, is presented to the court, upon the application. 
§ 1269. A court of record has the same power and jurisdiction, cond 
cerning the ocket of its judgments, kept by a county clerk, which it
has concerning the docket, kept by its own clerk. It may direct that 
such a docket be amended; or that its judgment, there docketed, be 
docketed nunc pro tune.
§ 1270. Upon the p1·esentation, to the clerk of a court of record, of an 
assignment of a judgment, entered iu his office, executed by a person
entitled to satisfy the judgment, as prescribed in section one thousand 
two hundred and sixty of this act, and otherwise executed as prescribed
in that section, with respect to a satisfaction-piece, and upon payment
of the fees, allowed by law, for filing a transcript, and docketing a 
judgment thereupon, the clerk must forthwith file the assignment in
bis office, and make, upon the docket. of the judgment, an entry of the
fact, and of the day of tiliug : or, if he keeps a separate book for the
entry of assignments of judgments, an entry, referriug to the page of 
the book, where the filing of the assignment is noted.
§ 1272. Thie article applies only to a judgment, wholly or partly for 
a sum of money, or directing the payment of a sum of money; and 
to &n execution issued upon such a judgment. 
TITLE II. 
A.fl'IcLB 1. Confession of judgment.
2. Submission of a controversy, upon facts admitted. 
ARTICLE smst. 
CoN1PK8810N OJ.I' JUDGM111'T. 
8BCTtoN 1273. Judgment may be confessed. Ma.rrieJ woman may confess.
1274. Statement; form thereof.
1275. St&tement to he filed, and judgment entered.
1276. Judgment-roll , docketing and enforcing the judgment.
1277. Execution, where the judgment is not all due.
1278. Oonfession hy one of several joint debtors. 
§ 1273. A judgment by confession ruay be entered, without action,
either for money due or to become due, or to secure a person against 
contingent liability in behalf of the defendant, or both, as prescribed
in this article. A married woman may confess such a judgment, if the 
debt was contracted for the benefit of her separate estate, or in the
eourse of any trade or oth- r bueiuesscanied ou by heronhereoleandseparate account. 
§ 1274. A written statement m118t be made, and signed by the defendant, to the following effect: 
l. H must state the sum, for which judgment may be entered, and
authorize tha entry of judgment. therefore. 
2. If the judgmeut to be confessed is for money due or to become
due, it mnst state concisely the facts, out of which the debt arose; and
must show, that the sum confessed therefore is justly due, or to become
due. 
3. If the judgment to be confessed is for the purpose of securing the 
plaintifff, against a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts,
eonstitutlng the liability; and must show, that the sum confessed
therefore does not exceed the amount of the liability. 
The statement must be verified by the oath of the defendant, to the
effect, that the matters of fact therein set forth are true. 
§ 1275. At any time within three years after the statement is verified,
it may be filed with a county clerk, or with the clerk of a superior city 
court, or, where the sum, for which judgment is confessed, does not
exceed two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest from the time of
making the statement, with the clerk of the marine court of the city
of New-York. Thereupon the clerk must enter, in like manner as a
judgment is entered in au action, a judgment for the sum coufe~ed,
with costs, which he must tax, to the amount of fifteen dollars, besides
disbursements taxable iu an action. If the statement is filed with a. 
county clerk, the judgment must be entered in the supreme court; if it
is filed wit.h the clerk of another court, specified iu this section, tho
judgment must be entered in the court of which he is clerk. But a
judgment shall not be entered upon such a statement, after the defend­ 
ant's death.
§ 1276. The clerk immediately at'ter entering tho judgment must 
attach togather* and file the statement, as verified, anJ. a. copy of the
judgment ; which constitutes the judgment-roll. The judgment may 
be docketed, and enforced ~ainst pro~rty, in t~e same manne!, and
with the same effect, as a Judgment m an action, rendered rn t.be 
same court; and each provision of law, relating to a judgment in an
action, and the proceedings subsequent thereto, apply to a judgment 
thus takeu.
§ 1277. Where the debt, for which the judgment is rendered, is not 
all cine, execution may be issued, upon the judgment, for the collection
of the sum which has become due. The execution must be in the form
prescribed by law, for an execution upon a judgment for the full amount
recovered; but the person, whose name is subscribed to It, must in­
dorse thereupon a direction to the sheriff, to collect ouly the sum due,
et.ating the amount thereof, with interest thereon, and the costs of the
judgment. Notwithstanding the issuing and collection of such an ex­
ecution, the judgment shall remain, as security for the sum or sums to
become due, after the execution is issued. When a further sum be­ 
comes due, an execution may, in like manner, be issued for the collec­
tion thereof; and successive executions may be issued, as further sums
become due. 
§ 1278. One or more joint debtors may confess a judgment for a joint
debt, dne or to become dne. Where all the joint debtors do not unite 
in the confession, the judgment must be entered and enforced against
those only who confessed it; and it is not a ba.r to an action against all
the joint debtors, upon the same demand. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
8UBXt88101' OP A ColfTBOVBBIY, UP01' FAOTS A.DJII'M'BD, 
8BO'l'J01' 1279. Controversy, how submitted without process.
1280. Papers to be filed; controversy thereupon becomes an action. 
1281. Subsequent proceedings regulated. 
§ 1279. The parties to a question in difference, which might be the
subject of an action, being of full age, may agree upon a case, con­
taining a statement of the facts, upon which the controversy depends;
and may present a written submission thereof to a court of record,
which would have jurisdiction of an action, brought for the same cause 
The case must be accompanied with the affidavit of one of the parties,
to the effect, that the controversy is real; and that the submission is
made in good faith, for the purpose of, determining the rights of the
parties. The submission must be acknowledged or proved, and cer­
tified, in like manner as a deed, to be recorded in the county where
it is filed. 
§ 1280. The case, submission, and affidavit, must be filed in the office
of the clerk of the court, to which the submission is made. If the sub- 
mission is made to the supreme court, they must be filed in the office
of the county clerk, if any, specified in t.he submission; if no county
clerk is so specified, they may be filed in the office of any county clerk.
The fl.Jing is a presentation of the submission; and thenceforth the
controversy becomes an action; and each provision of law, relating to 
a proceeding in an action, applies to the subsequent proceedings therein,
except as otherwise prescribed in the uext section. 
§ 1281. An order of arrest, an injunction, or a warrant of attachment,
cannot be granted in such an action: the costs thereof are always in 
the discretion of the court, but costs cannot be taxed, for any proceedIngs before notice of trial : the action must be tried by the court,
upon the case alone : and the case, submission, affidavit, and a certified
copy of the judgment, and of any order or paper, necessarily affecting
the judgment, constitute the judgment-roll. If the action is in the
supreme court, a superior city court, or the marine court of the city of
New-York, it must be tried, and judgment rendered, at the general
term. If the statement of facts, contained in the case, is not sufficient
to enable the court to render judgment, an order must be made dismissing the submission, without costs to either party; unless the court
permits the parties, or, in a proper case, their representatives, to file an
additional statement, which it may do, in its discretion, without prejudice to the original statement. 
TITLE X
JblcnoJJ 1282. Motion to eet aside judgment for irregularity ; when it may be
heard. 
1288. Motion to eet aside judgment for error in fact; when it may be
made by p&rty. 
1284. Id.; after a party's death.
1285. Id.; by a person not a party. 
1286. Id.; when several pa.rttes are entitled to move.
1287. To whom notice of the motion must be given.
1288. Id.; when real property recovered by the judgment hu been con- 
veyed. 
TITLE III. 
1289. How notice given under this title. 
1290. Within what time motion to be made.
1291. Exceptions in cases of disability.
1292. Restitution; when directed. 
§ 1282. A motion to set aside a final judgment, for irregnlarity, sha11
not be heard, e.fter the expiration of one year since the fl.ling of the 
judgment-roll; unless notice thereof is given for a day within the year, 
and either the hearing- ie adjourned, ·by one ·01' more orde1'8, until aft.er
the expiration of the year; · or the term, fOI' which it is thus noticed, is
not held. In the latter event, the motion ·may be re-noticed ,for, and
heard at, the next term at which it can be made, held not less than ten
days aft.er the day, wheu the first term ·was appointed to be held. 
§ 1288. A mot.ion to set aside a final judgment, rendered in a court.
of record, for error 'in fact, not arising upon the trial, may be made by 
the party against whom it is rendered; or, if-an execution baa not been
issued thereon, and the judgment has not been wholly or partly 8&ti.a­ 
fted or enforced, by the party in whose favor it. is rendered.
§ 1284. A like motion may be made, after the death of a party 
1mtitled to make it, 88 preeeribed in the last section, by the· following
persons: 
1. Where the judgment awards a snm ot·mon~y, or&'. chattel, 01' an
interest in real property, which is declared by law·to 'be aeeets, the
motion may be made by bis executor or administrator. 
2. Where the judgment awards real property, or the poseesslon
thereof, or where the title to or an estate or interest in Mal propert.y is
determined or affected thereby, the motion may be made by the heir 
of the decedent, to· whom the real property descended, or might have
descended, or by the person to whom he devisedIt, 
S. · Where the Jr1dgn:ient i8 rendered a~R;inst or in favor o_f two or
mote pereons, the· motion may be made, jointly, by the survivor, and
the person who would ha.ve been entitled to make it, if the ·judgment 
'had been rendered in favor of ·or against the decedent 'only, 
§ 1286.· A'motion may be made, either before br after the death of 
the defendant, by a person, who is not a party, to set aside, for error
·in fact, not arising upon the trial, a judgment, rendered in an action
-against a tenant for life, or ~or years, awarding real property, or the
possession of real property, in which the person makbtg .the motion has
an estate, or interest, in reversion or remainder. 
§ 1286. Where two or more persons are entitled to move to set aside 
8, judgment, as prescribed in the last three sections, one or more of
them may move separately ; but, in that case, notice of the motion
must be given to those who do not join therein, in like manner as if 
they were adverse parties.
§ 1287. Notice of a motion to set aside a final judgment, for error in 
fact, not arising upon the trial, must be given to the adverse party, OT, 
in case of his death, to each person who might have moved, as against
the moving party, to set aside the judgment for the same cause, as pre· 
scribed in this title. Where the motion is made by the party against
whom the judgmeut-is rendered.ior by his heir, devisee, executor, or
administrator, service of the notice, upon the attorney of record for the
party, in whose favor the judgment is rendered, bas the like effect, as
if it was served upon the party. 
§ 1288. Where the judgment awards real property, or the possession
~~~~-·thereof; or where the title· to, or an estate or interest in, real property 
is determined or affected thereby, and the real property, or estate or 
interest therein, bas been conveyed, by the adverse party, more than
eight days before the hearing of the motion, notice of the motion must 
also be given to each actual occupant of the property, claiming under
the conveyance. 
§ 1289. Notice mustbe 'given, in a 0880 specified in thl8 titl~, by per­
sonal service of a written notice, or or an order to show cause why the
motion should not be ,granted; or, if a penan entitled to notice oannot., 
2-14 
with due diligence, be found within the State, in any manner which
the court, or a judge thereof, directs in an order to show cause, or 
which the court directs in a subsequent order.
§ 1290. A motion to set aside a. final judgment, for error in fact, not 
arisiug upon the trial, shall not be heard, except as specified in the next section, after the expiration of two years since the filing of the judg- 
ment-roll, unless notice thereof. is given, for a day within the two yea.rs;
and either the hearing is adjourned, by eR& or more orders, until after
the expiration of the two years; or the term, for which it is thus
noticed, is not held. In the latter eeent, the motion may be re-noticed
for, and heard at, the next term at which it can be made, held not less
than ten days alter the ·day, waen tbe ti.rat term was appointed to be
held. 
§ 1291. If the person, against whom the judgment is rendered, is, at
the time of filing the judgment-roll, either 
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or
2. Insane; or 
8. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution, upon conviction
of a criminal offense, for a t.erm less than for life; 
The time of such a disability is not a part of the time, limited by the
last section; except that the time, within which the motion may be
heard, cannot be extended more than five years by such a disability,
nor, iu any case, more than one year after the disability ceases. 
§ 1292. Where a judgment is set aside for any cause, upon motion,
the court may direct. and enforce restitution, in like manner, with like
effect, and subject to the same conditions, as where a judgment is
reversed upon appeal. 
TITLE 1.--GBNBRAL PROVISIONS, RKLATING TO TIIB APPEALS PROVIDBD
POR IN THIS CHAPTER. 
TITLE 11.-APPEAL ro THB COURT OP APPEALS. 
TITLE 111.-APPBAL TO THE SUPREME COURT PROM AN INFERIOR COURT. 
TITLE IV .-APP.EAL TO THB O.ENBRAL TERM OF THE SUPREME COURT, OB
OP A SUPERIOR CITY COURT. 
TITLE v .-APPEAL PROM A FINAL DBTERllINATION IN A SPECIAL PRO­
C.BBDlNG. 
Bri1o• 1298. Writs of error abolished.
1294. When pal'ty may appeal.
1295. Parties to appeal; bow designated. Title of cause.
12?6. Wheu a person entitled to become a party may appeal.
1297. Appeal when adverse party has died.
1298. Proceedings. when party dies pending appeal.
1299. Order of substitution.
1300. Appeal, how taken.
1301. When notice of appeal to 81)8Cify interlocutory judgment, etc. 
1302. Proceedings, if attorney or p&11y not found.
1803. Defects in proceedings may be supplied.
1304. Order appealed from must be entered. Proceedings to compel entr),.
1305. Security ma.1 be waived. 
1306. Deposit, in lieu of undertaking.
1307. Un<lertak.ing most be filed. 
1308. New undertaking to be given, when BUJ"eties aJ"e imlolvent, etc. 
1309. Action upon undertaking, when not to be brought.
1810. When appeal stays proceedings; effect thereof.
1811. Levy upon personal property, when superseded by appeal.
1312. Court may limit amount of security in certain cases.
1813. No security necessary, on appeal by the people, etc •.
1814. Id., on appeal by municipal corporation.
1815. Papen to be transmitted to appellate court.
1316. Interlocutory juclgment, or intermediate order, may be reviewed.
1317. Judgment or order on appeal.
1318. When no appeal lies from judgment of reversal.
1319. Mode of enforcing affirmed or modified judgment. 
1320. Id.; ae to order. 
CHAPTER XII. 
APPEALS. 
TITLE I. 
1321. Mode of cancelling ducket of reversed or modified judgment.
1322. Id. ; when reversal, etc., was by court of appeals.
1323. Restitution ; when awarded. 
§ 1293. The writ of error in a civil action or special proceeding has
been abolished. • 
§ 1294. A party aggrieved may appeal, in a cue prescribed in this chapter, except where the judgment or order, of which be complains,
was rendered or me.de upon his default. 
§ 1295. The party or person appealing is designated as the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent. After an appeal is
taken to another court, the name of the appellate court must be substituted, for that of the court below, in the title of the action or special
proceediug, and in any case, the name of the county, if it is mentioned,
may be omitted; otherwise the title shall not be changed, in consequence of the appeal. 
§ 1296. A person aggrieved, who is not a party, but is entitled by
law to be substituted, in place of a party; or who has acquired, since 
the making of the order, or the rendering of the judgment appealed
from, an interest, which would have entitled him to be so eubstituted, 
if it had been previously acquired, may also appeal, as prescribed in
this chapter, for an appeal by a party. But the appeal cannot be
heard, until he has been substituted in place of the party; and if he
unreasonably neglects to procure an order of substitution, the appeal
may be dismissed, upon motion of the respondent. 
§ 1297. Where the adverse party has died, since the making of the
order, or the rendering of the judgment appealed from, or where the 
judgment appealed from was rendered, after his death, in a case prescribed by law, an appeal may be taken, as if he was living; but it
cannot be heard, until the heir, devisee, executor, or administrator, as
the case requires, has been substituted as the respondent. In such a
case, an undertaking required to perfect the appeal, or to stay the execution of the judgment or order appealed from, must recite the fact of
the adverse party's death; and the undertaking enures, after substitution, to the benefit of the person substituted. 
§ 1298. Where either party to an appeal dies, before the appeal is
beard, or has heretofore died and the appeal has not been heard, if an 
order, substituting anotr.er person in his place, is not made, within
three mouths after his death, or where he has heretofore died within 
three months. after this section takes effect, the court, in which the
appeal is pending, may, in its discretion, make an order, requiring all
persons interested in the decedent's estate, to show cause . before it,
why the judgment or order appealed from should not be reversed or
affirmed, or the appeal dismissed, a.s the case requires. The order
must specify a day, when cause is to be shown, which must be not less
than six months after making the order; and it must designate the
mode of giving notice to the persons interested. Upon the return day
of the order, or at a subsequent day, appointed by the court, if the
proper person has not been substituted, the court, upon proof, by affi­ 
davit, that notice has been given, as required by the order, may
reverse or affirm the judgment or order appealed from, or dismiss the
appeal, or make such further order in the premises, as justice requires. 
§ 1299. Where the appeal is from one court to another, an appliestion for an order of substitution, as prescribed by the last three sections, 
must be made to the appellate court. Where personal service of notice
of application for an order bas been made, within the State, upon the
proper representative of the decedent, an order of substitution may be
made, upon the application of the surviving party. 
§ 1300. An appeal must be ta.ken, by serving, upon the attorney for
the adverse party, as prescribed in article third of title sixth of chapter 
eighth of this act, and upon the clerk, with whom the judgment or
order appealed from is entered, by filing it in his office, a written
notice, to the effect, that the appellant appeals from the judgment or
order, or from a specified part thereof. 
• 
§ 1301. Where the appeal is from a. final judgment, or from a final
order in a special proceeding, and the appellant intends to bring up; 
for review thereupon, an interlocutory judgment, or an intermediate
order, he must, in the notice of appeal, distinctly specify the inter­
locutory judgment, or intermediate order, to be reviewed. 
§ 1302. If the attorney for the adverse party is dead; or if he baa
been removed, and notice of the removal has been served upon the 
appellant's attorney, and another attorney has not been substituted in
his place ; or if, for any reason, service of a notice or appeal, upon the 
proper attorney for the adverse party, cannot, with due diligence, be
made within the State, the notice of appeal may be served upon the
respondent, in the manner prescribed by law for serving it upon an
attorney. If personal service upon the respondent cannot, with due
diligence, be so made within the State, the notice of appeal may be
served upon him, and notice of the subsequent proceedings may be
given to him, as directed by a judge of the court, in or to which the
ap1,>ea.l is ta.ken. · 
§ 1303. Where the appellant, seasonably and in good faith, serves
the notice of appeal, either upon the clerk or upon the adverse party,
or his attorney, but omits, through mistake, inadvertence, or excusable 
neglect, to serve it upon the other, or to do any other act, necessary to 
perfect the appeal, or to stay the execution of the judgment or order
appealed from ; the court, in or to which the appeal is taken, upon
proof, by affidavit, of the facts, may, in its discretion, permit the
omission to be supplied, or an amendment to be made, upon such
terms as justice requires. 
§ 1304. An appeal cannot be taken from an order made by a judge;
out of court, until it is entered in the office of the proper clerk. W·here 
such an order has not been 80 entered, or the papers, upon which it
was founded, have not been filed in the same clerk's office; the judge 
who made it, or, if he is absent, or unable or disqualified to act, a
judge or the court, in or to which an appeal therefrom may be taken, 
must, upon the application of a party or other person, entitled to take
such au appeal, make an order, requiring the omission to be supplied,
within a specified time after service of a copy of the order made by
him. Upon proof, by affidavit, that a. copy of the latter order has
been served, and that the omission has not been supplied, the same
jud~e may make, upon notice, an order revoking and annulling the
original order. The provisions of the last section but one apply to the
service of an order, or a notice, as prescribed in this section. 
§ 1305. An undertaking, which the appellant is required, by this chapter, to give, or any other act which he is so required to do, for the
securit.y of the respondent, may be waived by the written consent of 
the respondent,
§ 1306. Where the appellant is required, by this chapter, to t·ve an 
d
undertaking, he may, in lieu thereof, eposit with the cler , with 
whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, a. sum of
money, equal to the amount, for which the undertaking is required
to be given. The deposit has the same effect, as tiling the under­
taking; and notice that it bas been made, has the same effect, as
notice of the filing and service of a copy of the undertaking. The
court, wherein the appeal is pending, may direct the mode, in which
the money shall be kept and disposed or, during the pendency, or after
the determination of the appeal. 
§ 1307. An undertaking, given as prescribed in thiB chapter, must 
be fl.led with the clerk, with whom the judgment or order appealed
from is eu tered. 
~ mos. The court, in which the appeal is pending, npon satisfactory
proof, by affidavit, that siuce she execution of an undertaking, given 
as prescribed in this chapter, 011e or more of the sureties therein have
become insolvent; or that his or their circumstances have become so pre- 
carious, t~* there is reason to apprehend, that the undertaking is not
sufficient for the seenrity of the respondent; may make an order, re·
quiring the appellant to file a new undertaking, and to serve a copy
thereof, as required with respect to the original undertaking. If the
appellant fails so to do, within twenty days after the service of a copy 
or the order, or- such further time as the court allows, the appeal must 
be dismissed, er the order or judgment, from which the appeal is taken,
must be executed, as if the original undertaking bad not been given. 
§ moo. An action shall not be maintained, upon an undertaking,
given upon an appeal, taken. as prescribed in title third, fourth or tift.h 
of this chapter, until ten days have expired, since the service, upon
the attorney for tlre appellant, of a written notice of the entry of a 
j udgrnent or order, affirming the judgment or order appealed from, ar
dismissing the appeal. Where an appeal to the court of appeals, from
that judgment or order, is perfected, and security is given thereupon, 
to stay the execution of the judgment or order appealed from, an action 
shall not be maintained upon the undertaking, given upon the preced- 
ing appeal, until a(ter the final determination of the appeal to the
court of appeals. 
§ 1310. When an appeal has been perfected, as prescribed in this chapter, and the other acts, if any, required to be done, to stay the 
execution of the judgment or order appealed from, have been done,
the appeal stays alf proceedings to enforce the judgment or order 
appealed from; except that the court or judge, from whose determination the appeal is taken, mo.y proceed in any matter, included iu the
action or special proceeding, and not affected by the judgment or order
appealed from, or not embraced within the appeal ; or may cause perishable property to be sold, pursuant to the judgment or order appealed
from. The proceeds of such a sale must be paid, to abide tbe result
of the appeal, into the court, from or in which the appeal is taken ; or,
if it was taken as prescribed in title tilth of this chapter, into the 
suereme court.
~ 1311. Where an appeal, taken, from a final judgment, to the coust 
of appeals, has been perfected, and the security, required to stay the
execution of the judgment, has been given; or where the security, 
given upon au appeal, t.aken from a final judgment of the supreme.court,
a eu perior city court, a county court, or the marine court of the city of NewYork, is equal to that required to perfect an appeal to the court of appeals, and to stay the execution of the judgmeut ; the court, in which
the judgment appealed from was rendered, may, in its discretion, and
upon such terms as justice. requires, make an order, upon notice to the
respondent, and the sureties in the undertaking, discharging a. Jev.y
upon personal property, made by virtue of an execution, issued upon
the judgment appealed f:r0tn. But this eection.does not, authorize the
discharge of a levy, made by virtue of a warrant of attachment.. 
§ 1312. Where an appeal is taken, as prescribed in. title second or
fourth of this chapter, the court, ill or from which the appeal is taken ; 
or, where an appeal is taken as prescribed in title third or fifth of this chapter, the court, to which t~ appeal is taken; may, in its disr.retiou, 
make an order, upon notice to the respondent, dispensing with or lim­
iting the securit.y, required to stay the execution of the judgment or 
order appealed from, as follows : 
1. Where the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or
other person acting in another's right, the security may be dispensed
with or limited, hr the discretion of the court. 
2. The aggregate sum, in which one or more undertakings are re
quired to be given, may be limited to not less than fifty thousand dol 
lars, where it would otherwise exceed that sum. 
§ rnrn. Upon an appeal, taken by the people of the State, or by a
State officer, or board of State officers, the service of the notice of ap­ 
peal perfects t.he appeal, and stays the execution of the judgment or
order appealed from, without an undertaking, or other security. 
§ 1814. u1on an appeal, taken by a domestic municipal corporation,
the service O the notice of appeal perfects the appeal, and stays the exe­
cution of the judgment or order appealed from, without an underta.kin~, 
or other security ; except that, where an appeal is taken, as prescribed
in tit.le second, third or fourth of this chapter, the court, in or from
which the appeal is taken, may, in its discretion, require security to be
given. In that case, the form, nature, and extent of the security, not
exceeding that which is required in a like case, from a natural person,
and the time and manner in which it must be given, must be pre­
scribed by the order of the court; and the mayor, comptroller, or coun­
sel to the corporation, may execute, in behalf of the corporation, an 
undertaking, so required to be given.
§ 1315. Where an appeal is taken from a final judgment, as pre­ 
scribed in title second or third of this chapter, the appellant must, 
within twenty days after it is perfected, cause a certified copy of the
notice of appeal, of the judgment-roll, and of a case or notice of excep­
tions, if any, filed after the entry of judgment, to be transmitted to 
the appellate court, by the clerk, upon whom the notice of appeal was
served. Where an appeal from an order, or a part of an order, is taken
as prescribed in title secoud, third, or fifth of this chapter, the appel­
lant must, wit.bin the same time, cause a certified copy of the notice
,f appeal, of the order, and of the papers upon which the order was
founded, to be transmitted to the appellate court, by the same clerk.
If the appellant fails so to do, the respondent may cause those papers 
to be so transmitted; and he is entitled to tax the expense thereof, as
a disbursement, where he recovers costs. The clerk of the appellate
court must file the papers t10 transmitted; and, except where it is other­
wise specially prescribed by law, the appeal must be heard upon them. 
§ 1316. An appeal, ta.ken from a final judgment, brings up for
review, an interlocutory judgment, or au intermediate order, which is 
specified in the notice of appeal, and necessarily affects the final j udg­
ment; and which has not already been reviewed, upon a separate 
appeal therefrom, by the court or the term of the court, to which the
appeal from the final judgment is taken. The right to review an inter­ 
locutory judgment, or an intermediate order, as prescribed in this sec­
tion, is not affected by the expiration of the tijte, within which a
separate appeal therefrom might have been ta.ken . 
§ 1317. Upon an appeal from a jud~ent or an order, the court, or
the general term, to which the appeal 1s taken, may reverse or affirm
wholly or partly, or may modify, the judgment or order appealed from'
and ea.ch interlocutory judgment or intermediate order, which it i~
authorized to review, as specified in the notice of appeal, and as to auy 
or all of the parties; and it may, if neeeesary or proper, grant a new
trial or hearing. A judgment, affirming wholly or partly a judgment, 
from which an appeal has been taken, shall not, expressly and in
terms, a.ward to the respoudent, a sum of money, or other relief, which 
WM awarded to him by the judgment so affirmed.
§ 1318. Where a judgment, from which an appeal is taken, ~When 
reversed upon the appeal, and a new trial is granted, an appeal canno
be ta.ken from the judgment of reversal ; but upon an appeal from th
order granting a. new trial, taken, as prescribed by law, the judgmen 
of reversal must also be reviewed.
§ 1319. Where a judgment, from which an appeal has been taken, 
from one court to another, is wholly or partly affirmed, or is modified,
upon the appeal, it must be enforced, by the court in which it was rendered, to the extent permitted by the determination of the appellate 
court, as if the appeal therefrom bad not been taken.
§ 1320. Where a final order, from which an appeal bas been taken, 
from one court to another, as prescribed in title fifth of this chapter, is
wholly or partly affirmed, or is modified, upon the appeal, the appellate 
court may enforce its order, or may direct the proceedings to be remitted, for that purpose, to the court below, or to the judge who made the
order appealed from. 
§ .1821. Where a final judgment for a sum of money, or directing
the payment of a sum of money, bas been reversed, or has been affirmed 
as to part only of the sum, upon an appeal, taken as prescribed in title
third or fourth of this chapter; and an appeal to the court of appeals is 
not taken and perfected, and the security required to stay execution is
not given, within ten days after the entry of the judgment upon the
appeal, in the clerk's office where the judgment appealed from is
entered, the clerk must make a minute of the reversal of the judgment,
or of the amount to which it bas been reduced, upon his docket-book,
in each place, where the judgment is docketed. A transcript of the
docket, as thns corrected, must be furnished by him, and may be filed
in any county clerk's office, where the original judgment is docketed,
as prescribed by law, with respect to the original docket; and thereupon the county clerk must correct his docket accordingly. The lien
of a judgment, the docket of which is not corrected, as prescribed in
this section, remains unaffected by the reversal or modification thereof,
until the decision of the court of appeals, upon an appeal from the
judgment reversing or modifying the same, or the expiration of the
time to take such an appeal. 
§ 1322. Where a final judgment for a sum of money, or directing the
payment of a sum of money, bas been reversed, or affirmed as to part 
only of the sum, upon. an appeal to the court of appeals, the docket
may be corrected, as prescribed in the last section, at any time after 
the remittitnr has been filed in the court below.
§ 1323. Where a final judgment or order is reversed or modified, 
upon appeal, the appellate court, or the general term of the same court,
as the case may be, may make or compel restitution of property or of a 
right, lost by means of the erroneous judgment or order; but not so as
to affect the title of a purchaser, in good faith and for value, where
property bas been sold, the court may compel the value, or the purchase price, to be restored, or deposited to abide the event of the action, 
as justice requires. · 
Appeal to the court o/ appeal,,.
TITLE II. 
89C'l'Iolf 1324. Wba.t appeals may be taken.
1325. Limitation of time to appeal.
1326. Secw·ity to perfect appea.l.
1327. Security to Rta.y execution on judgment, etc., for mol)e7. 
1328. Id.j on Jurlgment, etc., fo1· delivery of property.
1329. Id. ; on Judgment for a chattel.
1830. Id. ; on judgment, etc., directing conveyance.
1331. lei. ; on judgment, etc., for poesessien of l'e&l property. 
1332. Construction of the last five sect.iooe.
1333. The last six sections qualified. 
1334. Undertakings may he in one instrument; form and service thereof.
1335. Exception to sureties ; justification.
1386. Appeal from final judgmMtt rendered after afflrmance oli.Dtaloeutor)I 
judgment, or denial of motion for ne~ trial. 
1337. What questions 111-e brought up for review.
1338. When questions of fact to be reviewed.
1839. When a case to he prepared, etc., for the appeal. 
§ 1824. An appeal may be taken · to the court or appeale, in a case
where that court has jnrisdiction,·as prescribed in sections one hundred
and ninety and one hundred and ninety-one of this act. · 
§ 1325. An appeal to the court of appeals, from a final judgment,
must be taken, within one year after final judgment is entered, upon
the determination of the general term of the court below, and the judg­ 
ment-roll filed. An appeal to the court of appeals, from an order, must 
be taken within sixty days after service, upon the attorney for the
appellant, of a copy of the order appealed from, and a written notice,
of the ·entry thereof. 
§ 1826. To reuder a notice of appeal, to the court of appeals, eff'ect­
ual, for any purpose, except in a case where it is specially prescribed
by law, that security is not necessary, to perfect the appeal, the appel­
lant must give- a written undertaking, to the effect, that he will pay all 
costs and damages, which maybe awarded age.inst him on the appeal, not
exceeding five hundred dollars. The appeal is perfected, when such
an undertaking is given and a copy thereof, with notice of the filing
thereof, is served, as prescribed in this tit.le. 
§ 1327. If the appeal is taken from a. judgment for a sum of money;
or from a judgment O'P order, directing the payment of a snm of money, 
it does not !tay the execution of the judgment or order, until the appel­
lant gives a written undertaking, to the effect, that if the judgment oP 
order appealed from, O'P any part thereof, is affirmed, or the appeal is
dismissed, he will pay the sum, recovered or directed to be paid, by
the judgment or order, or the part thereof, as to which it is affirmed.
Bat where the judgment or order directs the payment of money in 
fixed instalments, the undertaking must be to the effect, that the appel­
lant will pay each instalment, wbicb becomes payable, pending the
appeal, or ·the pad thereof as to which the judgment or order is affirmed, 
not exceeding a sum specified in the undertaking, wllich must be fixed
by a judge of the oourt below. The oonPt below may, at any time
afterwards, upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit, that the sum so fixed
is immfficient in amount, make an order, requiring the appellant to give
a further undertaking, to the same effect, in a sum and within a time, 
specified in the order. A failure to comply with such an order has the 
ea.me effect, 88 if no undertaking had been given, 88 prescribed in this section. 
~ 1328. Uthe appeal is taken from a judgment or order, directing
the 1:1.SSignment or delivery of a document, or of personal property, it 
does· not stay the execution of the judgment or order, until the thing
directed to be aeeigned or delivered, is brought into the court below, or 
placed in the custody of an offir..er or receiver, designated by that court;
or the appellant gives a written undertaking 88 prescribed in the next section.
- § 1329. If the appeal i5 taken from a judgment for the recovery of a 
-chattel, it does not ataythe execution of the judgment, until the appel-{~~~t:t 
l&nt ~vee a written midertaking, in a sum fixed by the court below, or
a judge thereof, to the effect that the appellant will obey the direction 
-of the appellate conrt, npon the appeal.
§ 1330. Ihhe appeal is taken from a judgment or order, directing 
the 6%eelltion of a conveyance, or other insteument, it does not stay the
-execution of the judgment or order, until the instrument is executed, 
,and deposited with the clerk, with whom the judgment or order is 
entered, to abide the direction of the appellate court. 
§ 1881. IC the appeal is taken from a judgment, which entitles the
:respondent to the immediate possession of real property, or from ajudg-i~~:;it. 
-ment-Ororder, directing the 88Je or taedelivery of poeseesion of real property, it does not stay the execution of the judgment or order, until the 
-appellant gives a written undertaking, to tho effect that he will not,
while in possession of the property, commit, or l!luffer to be committed, 
"'llllY waste thereon; and that; if the judgment or order is affirmed, or
tho appeal is dismissed, be will pay the value of the use and occupation
of the property, or the part thereof, as to which the judgment or order
is affirmed· from the time of taking tho appeal, until the deliveryof the
possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not exceeding a 
·specified sum, fixed by a judge of the court below. B11t if the judgment directs a foreclosure and eale,of real property mortgaged, an
undertaking. is sufficient to stay t'he execution of the judgment, which
is to the effect that if the judgment is affirmed, or the appeal is dismissed, the .appellant will pay any deficiency which may occur upon the
sale, in discharging the sum to pay which the sale is directed, with inter- 
. est, and t.he.coets, and a} l expenses chargeable ~inst the proceeds of the
sale, not exceeding a specified BUm, fixed by a Judge of the court below. 
§ 1832. Where the judgment or order, from which an appeal is taken
to the court of appeals, affirms a judgment or order, to the effect speei- 
tied in either of the last five seetiona, ·the undertaking must be the
same, as if the judament or order, from which the appeal is so taken,
was to the same effect, as the judgment or order so affirmed. 
§ 1338. The last six: secttons do not extend to a case, where it is
specially preseribed by law, that an appeal may he taken, or the exe- 
ention of.a ·judgment or· order appealed from may be stayed, without
eecurity, '01" where the security to be given, far either purpose, is spe- 
·cially regulated by law.
§ 1384. Where two or more undertakings are required to be given. 
88 prescribed in this title' they may be· contained in the same instrument, or in diff'enmt Instrnments at the option of the appellant. Each
nndertaking given as prescribed in this title must be executed by at
least two · snretles, and must 'Specify the residence ·of each surety 
'therein. ,•,A copy theTeof with a notiee showing where it is filed, must
be served on the attorney for the adverse party with the notice of appeal or before the expiration of the time of appeal. 
§ 1335. The attorney for the respondent may, within ten days after 
service of a copy of the undertaking, with notice of the fl.ling thereof,
serve upon the attorney for the appellant, a written notice, that he 
excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. Within ten days thereafter,
the sureties, or other sureties in a new undertaking, to the same effect,
must justify, before a judge of the court below, or a county judge. At 
east five days' notice of ihe justification must be given; in every other
respect, the provisions of sections five hundred and seventy-eight, five
hundred and seventy-nine, and five hundred and eighty of this ad 
apply to the justification. If the judge finds the sureties sufficient, be
must indorse his allowance of them, upon the undertaking, or a copy
thereof; and a notice of the allowance must be served upon the attor­
ney for the exceptant. The effect of a failure so to justify, and to pro­
cure an allowance, is the same, as if the undertaking had not been
given. 
§ 1336. Where final judgment is rendered in the court below, aft.er
the affirmance, upon an appeal to the general term of that court, of an
interlocutory judgment; or after the refusal, by the general term, of a 
new trial, either upon an application, made, in the first instance, at the
general term, or upon an appeal from an order of the special term, or 
of the judge before whom the issues, or questions of fact, were tried
by a jury; the party aggrieved may appeal directly from the final
judgment to the court of appeals, notwithstanding that it was rendered
at a special term, or at a trial term, or pursuant to the directions, con­
tained in a referee's report. But such an appeal brings up, for review,
only the determination of the general term, affirming the interlocutory
judgment, or refusing the new trial. 
§ 1837. Adn appealt.to the couf rt. of appeals t~m1 • a final jt~dgmenft, or
roman or er, gran mg or re usmg a new na m an ac ion, or rom 
a. final order affecting a substantial right, made, either in a special
proceeding, or upon a summary application after judgment in an action,
brings up for review, in that court, every question, affecting a substan­
tial right, and not resting in discretion, which was determined by the 
general term of the court below, in rendering the judgment or making
the order, from which the appeal is taken; except that a question of
fact, arising upon conflicting evidence, cannot be determined upon such
an appeal, unless where special provision for the determination thereof
is made by law. 
§ 1338. Upon an appeal to the court of apeeals from a. jn4gment,
reversing a judgment entered upon a referees report, or a decision
of the court, upon a trial without a jury; or from an order granting a 
new trial, upon such a reversal; it must be presumed, that the judg­
ment was not reversed, or the new trial granted, upon a question of
fact, unless the contrary clearly appears, in the body of the judgment
or order appealed from. In that case, the court of appeals must review
the determination of the general term of the court below, upon the
questlons of fact, as well as the questions of law. 
§ 1889. Where an appeal to the court of appeals, from a _judgment,
rendered at a general term of the court below, upon a verdict, subject 
to the opinion of the court, has been perfected, a case, containing a
concise statement of the facts, of the questions of law a.rising there­
upon, and of the determination of those questions by the general term
must be prepared and settled, by or under the direction of the court
below, and annexed to the judgment-roll. An exception is not neces158.ry, to enable the conrt of appeals to review the determination of a
question of law, arising upon the verdict. A certified copy of the case 
must be transmitted to the court of appeals, instead of the case, upon
which the judgment of the court below was rendered. The court
below, or a judge thereof, may extend the time, limited by law, within
which the papers must be transmitted to the court of appeals, for the
purpose of enabling the appellant to procure the case to be prepared
or settled. 
• 
TITLE III. 
8JIC7l'lulf 1840. Appeal from judgment.
1341. Limitation of time; security.
1342. Appeal from order.
1343. Limitation or time and stay of proceedings .
1344. Appeal, where and how heard.
1845. Judgment or order, where entered. 
§ 1340. An appeal may be taken, to the supreme court, from a final
judgment, rendered by a county court, or by any other court of record,
p088688ing original jurisdiction, where an appeal therefrom to a court,
other than the supreme court, is not expressly given by statute. 
§ 1841. An appeal, authorized by the last section, must be taken
within sixty days after service upon the attorney for the appellant of a 
copy of the judgment and notice of the entry thereof. Upon such an
appeal, security must be given, to perfect the appeal, or to stay the
execution of the judgment, and the sureties may be excepted to, and
must justify, as upon an appeal to the court of appeals, from a judgment of the same amount, or to the same effect. 
§ 1342. An appeal may also be taken, to the supreme court, from an
order, affecting a substantial right, made by the court or a judge, in an 
action brought in a court, specified in the last section but one.
§ 1343. An appeal, authorized by the last section, must be take~L1~1tat1on 
within s~ after service upon the attorney for the appellant,
of a ctipyNe order, and written notice of the entry thereof 
Security is not required to perfect it; but it does not stay the execution
of the order from which it is taken. The appellate court, or a judge
thereof, may direct such a. stay, upon such terms, as to security or
otherwise, as justice requires. 
§ 1344. An appeal, taken as prescribed in this title, must be heard
at the general term. The provisions of title fourth of this chapter,
relating to the hearing of appeals, taken in the supreme court, and to
the subsequent proceedings thereupon, apply to an appeal, taken as
prescribed in this title, except as specified iu the next section. 
§ 1345. A judgment of the supreme court, rendered upon an appeal
authorized by this title, must be entered in the judgment-book, kept 
in the office of the clerk of the county, wherein the court below is
located. The judgment-roll must be filed in the same office; and must
consist of a certified copy of the judgment, annexed to the papers
transmitted from the court below. An order of the supreme court,
made upon such an appeal, must be entered, and the papers, upon
which the appeal was heard, must be filed, in the office of the same
clerk. The filing of the judgment-roll, or the entry of the order, 88 
preecribed in this section, ia a sufficient authority for any proceeding 
in the court below, or before the judge, who made the order appealed
from, which the judgment or order of the appellate court directs or
permits. Bnt where the execution of the judgment or order of the
appellat.e court is stayed, by an appeal to the court of appeals, the
proceedings in the court below, or before the judge who made the
order, are stayed in like manner. 
§ 1346. An appeal may be taken, to the general term of the supreme
court, or of a superior city court, from a final judgment rendered in 
the same court, as follows :
1. Where the judgment was rendered upon a trial by a referee, or by 
the court without a jury, the appeal may be ta.ken upon questions of 
law, or upon the facts, or upon both.
2. Where the judgment was rendered upon the verdict of a jury, the 
appeal may be taken upon questions of law. 
§ 1847. An appeal may be ta.ken, to the general term of the supreme
court, or of a superior city court, from an order, made in an action, 
upon notice, at a special term or a trial term of the same court, or, in
the supreme court, at a term of the circuit court, in either of the fol­ 
lowing cases :
1. Where the order grants, refuses, continues, or modifies a provis­ 
ional remedy.
2. Where it grants, or refuses a new trial; except that where spe­ 
cific questions of fact, arising upon the issues, in an action triable by
the court, have been tried by o. jury, pursuant to an order for that pur­
pose, as prescribed in section nine hundred and seventy-one of this
act, an appeal cannot be taken from an order, granting or refusing a 
new trial, upon the merits, 
a. Where it involves some part of the merits.
4. Where it affects a substantial right .. 
5. Where, in effect, it determines the action, and prevents a judg­
ment, from which an appeal might be taken. 
6. Where it determines a statutory provision of the State to be 
unconstitutional; and the determination appears from the reasons
giv!~ for the decision thereupon, or is nece88&rily Implied in the 
decuuon. 
256 
TITLE IV • 
.App«Jl to tll8 g6Ml'a/, fMm of the l1llf}f"8'ln6 rourt, or of a BVperlOr cit1J OtJWt. 
• 
An rd
ad
Ii ti fte • d t • 
O er, m e upon a summary app ica ion, a r JU gmen ., 1s
deemed to have been made, in the action, within the meaning of this section.
§ 1348. An appeal may also be taken, to the general term of either 
of those courts, from an order, made in an action, upon notice, by
a judge, out of court, in a case where an appeal might have been
taken, as prescribed in the last section, if the order bad been made by
the court. . 
§ 1349. An appeal may also be taken, to the general term of either
of those courts, from an interlocutory judgment, rendered at a special 
term or trial term of the same court, or, in the supreme court, at a term
of the circuit court. 
§ 1350. Where final judgment is taken, at a special term or trial
term, or pursuant to the directions of a referee, after the affirmance, 
upon an appeal to the general term, of an interlocutory judgment; or
after the refusal, by the general term, of a new trial, either upon an
application, made, in the first instance, at the general term, or upon 
an appeal from an order of the special term, or of the judge, before
h
th 
• ti f , t t . d b . l
w om e issues, or ques ions o tac , were ne y a Jury; an appea 
to the general term from the final judgment brings up, for review, only
the proceedings to take the final judgment, or upon which the final
judgment was taken, including the hearing or trial of the other iesues 
in the action, if any. If an appeal is taken, to the court of appeals,
from the determination of the general term, upon the appeal from the
final judgment, the determination of the general term, affirming the
interlocutory judgment or refusing the new trial, may, at the election
of either party, be reviewed thereupon. If the respondent elects to
bring it up for review, he may take a cross-appeal therefrom, notwith­
standing the expiration of the time to t.ake an original appeal therefrom. 
§ 1351. An appeal, authorized by this title, must be taken, within
tbir~ d'fls after service, upon the attorney for the appellant, of a copy 
~ £Je J dgment or order appealed from, and A. written notice of the
entry thereof. Security is not required to perfect the appeal ; but, 
except where it is otherwise specially prescribed by law, the appeal
does not stay the execution of the judgment or order appealed from;
unless the court, in or from which the appeal is taken, or a judge
thereof, makes au order, directing such a stay. Snch an order may be
made, and may, from time to time, be modified, upon such terms, as
to security or otherwise, as justice requires. If security is given, either
as a condition of granting the order, or as prescribed in the next section, the provisions of title second of this chapter apply thereto, as if
the general term was specified in those provisions, in place of the
appellate court, and a judge of the same court, in place of a judge of 
• the court below.
§ 1352. Upon an appeal from a final judgment, taken as prescribed 
in this title, the appellant may give the security, required to perfect
an appeal to the court of appeals, from a judgment of the same amount, 
or to the same effect ; and to stay the execution thereof. In that case,
the execution of the judgment appealed from is stayed, as upon an
appeal to the court of appeals, and subject to t.he same conditions. 
§ 1353. An appeal from a final judgment, taken as prescribed in this title, must be heard upon a certified copy of the notice of appeal, of the 
judgment-rol1, and of the case or notice of exceptions, if any, filed, as
prescribed by law or the general rules of practice, after the entry of 
the judgment, and eit.her before or after the appeal is taken.· An
appeal from an interlocutory judgment, or from an order, taken as pre­
scribed in this title, must be heard upon a certified copy of the notice
of appeal, and of the papers used before the court or the judge, upon
the hearing of the demurrer, application for judgment, or motion, as
the cue requires. 
§ 1354. When judgment of affirma.nce is rendered upon the appeal,
the judgment-roll consists of a copy of the judgment, annexed to the 
papers, upon which the appeal was heard. Where subsequent pro­
ceedings are ta.ken, at the special term or trial term, before the entry
of final judgment, the judgment-roll must also contain the proper
papers relating thereto. 
§ 1335. An appeal taken to the general term of the supreme court,
as prescribed in this title, must be heard in the department, embracing
the county, in which the judgment or order appealed from is entered;
unless an order is made, as prescribed in section two hundred and
thirty-one of this act, directing that it be heard in another department.
The judgment rendered, or the order made, upon the appeal, must be 
entered, and the judgment-roll, or the papers upon which the appeal
was determined, as the case requires, must be ti.led, in the office of the
clerk of the county, where the jnd~ment or order appealed from is
entered. If the appeal is determined at a general term, held in
another county, the clerk of that county must, at the expense of the
successful party, transmit a certified copy of the determination, and
-the other papers, if any, required to be filed, to the clerk of the county
where the judgment or order is to be entered. 
§ 1356. An appeal may be taken, to the general term of the supreme
court, or of a superior city court, from an order, affecting a snbstantial 
right, made in a special proceeding, at a special term or a trial term of
the same court, or, in the supreme court, a.t a term of a circuit court}
or ma.de by a judge of the same court, in a special proceeding instituted
'before him, pursue.it to a special statutory provision; or instituted
before another judge, and transferred to, or continued before him. 
§ 1357. An appeal may also be ta.ken to the supreme court, from an
order, affecting a substantial right, made by a court of record, possess­ 
ing original jurisdiction, or a judge thereof, in a special proceeding
instituted in that court, or before a. judge thereof, pursuant to a special
statutory provision; or instituted before another judge, and transferred
to, or eontiaued before, the judge who made the final order. 

TITLE V. 
But tbis section does not apply to a case, where an appeal from the
order, to a court, other than the supreme court, is expressly given by 
statute.
§ 1358. An appeal, authorized by this title, brings up for review, any 
preceding order, made in the course of the special proceeding, i11volving the merits, and necessarily affectiug the final order appealed
from, which is specified in t.he notice of ar{le&l. · 
§ 1359. An appeal, authorized by this title, must be t.aken within
Qlidy days aft.er service of a copy of the final order, from which it. is
taken, \.vith a written notice of the entry thereof, upon the appellant;
or, if he appeared. upon the hearing, by an attorney at law or an
attorney in fact, upon the person who so appeared for him. 
§ 1380. The provisions of title fourth of this chapter, relating to perfecting an appeal from an order, taken as therein prescribed; to stay- 
ing the execution of the order appealed from; to hearing the appeal ;
and to the entry and enforcement of the order made upon the appeal,
apply, where an appeal is taken, as prescribed in this title, except as
otherwise specially prescribed by law. 
§ 1361. This title does not confer t.he right to appeal from an order,
in a cruse, where it is specially prescribed by law, t.hat the order cannot 
be reviewed. The proceedings upon an appeal, taken as prescribed
in this title, are governed by the provisions of this act, and of the
general rules of practice, relating to an appeal in an action, except as 
otherwise specially prescribed by law. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
EXECUTIONS. 
TITLE 1.-FoRMB or BXECUTION; TIME AND MANNER OP 1ssunm
AN EXECUTION ; GENERAL D~TI.88 AND LIA.BILITIBS OP
OFFICERS. 
TITLE 11.-EXECUTION AGAINST PROPERTY.
TITLE III.-EXECUTION AGAINST THE PERSON. 
TITLE I. 
FO'f'flH of «IJ8C'laion; Mll.6 and mannw of issui1l{I an ~; gmeral
duties and liahilit~, of olftcers. 
8BO'l'Jo?J 1862. To whom execution directed ; provision where sheriff' is a party. 
1363. Time of receipt to be indorsed on execution.
1364. The different kinds of execution.
1365. To what counties executions may issue.
1866. General requisites of executions.
1367. Id.; when issued on filing transcript from justice's court, ete. 
1368. Requisites of execution for the collection of money.
1869. Id.; against property.
1370. Id.; where a. warrant of attachment bas been issued.
1371. Id.; against executor, etc.
1372. Id.j against the person.
1373. Id.; for delivery of property. How money, recovered by eame 
judgment, may be collected.
1374. Separate executions, where separate sums awarded. .
1375. Execution of course, within five years.
1376. Execution, after death of judgment creditor.
1377. When execution may be issued a.fter five yea.rs.
1378. Id.; leave, how obtained.
1379. No execution a.ga.inst decedent, except, etc.
1380. Leave required to Issue execution aga.inst decedent's properi7. 
1381. Leave, bow obtained.
1382. Time of stay by order, etc., not reckoned under this title.
1383. Execution against surviving judgment debtors,
1884. Sa.le on execution, etc.; when and how conducted.
1385. Penalty for t.Jting down or defacing notice of sale.
1386. Validity of sale, when not aff'ected by sheriff's default, ete, 
1387. Purcbaaes on such sale, by certain officers, prohibited.
1888. When execution to be enforced by under-sheriff. 
§ 1862. An execution must be directed to the sheriff, unless he is a
party or interested ; in which case it must be directed as prescribed in
eection one hundred and seventy-three of this act. But the court may,
in its discretion, order an execution, issued upon a judgment rendered
age.inst a sheriff, either alone or with another, to be directed to a per­
son, designated in the order, instead of to the coroners, or a particular 
. hi b it t b d" d Tb d .
eoroner ; m w ic case 1 mus e so irecte . e person so esrg- 
nated must be of full ~e, a resident of the State, and not a party to
the action, or interested therein. Where the execution is issued upon
a judgment for a sum of money, or directing the payment of a sum of
money, the order does not take effect, until the person so designated
executes, and files in the clerk's office, a bond to the people, with at
Ieast two sureties, approved by a judge of the court, or a county judge,
in a penal sum, fixed bv the order, not less than twice the sum to be
collected by virtue of the execution; conditioned for the faithful per­
formance of his duties under the execution. A certified copy of the
order, and, where it requires a bond to be given, the clerk's certificate
that a bond has been filed, as required by the order, must be attached 
to the execution. The person so designated is deemed an officer ; and,
with respect to that execution, he is subject to the obligations and
liabilities, and has the power and authority of a coroner, and is entitled 
to fees accordingly. .
§ 1363. The sheriff, to whom an execution is directed and delivered, 
must, upon the receipt thereof, indorse thereupon a memorandum of
the day, hour, and minute, when he received it. 
§ l364. There are four kinds of execution, as follows : 
1. Against property. 
2
Ag
· t h 
. ams t e person.
8. For the delivery of the possession of real property, with or with- 
out damages for withholding the same.
4. For the delivery of the possession of a chattel, with or without 
damages for the taking or detention thereof.
An execution is the process of the court, from which it is issued.
§ 1365. An execution against property can be issued only to a county, 
in the clerk's office of which the judgment is docketed. An execution
against the person may be issued to any county, Au execution for the 
delivery of the possession of real property, must be issued to the county,
where the property, or a part thereof, is situated. An execution for
the delivery of the possesslon of a chattel, may be issued to any county,
where the chattel is fouud; or to the sheriff of the county where the 
judgment-roll is filed. Executions, upon the same judgment, may be 
Issued at the same time, to two or more different counties. 
§ 1366. An execution must intelligibly describe the judgment, stating the names of the parties in whose favor, and against whom, the~~~~':
time wheu, and the court in which, the judgment was rendered; and,
if it was rendered in the supreme court, the county in which the judg­
ment-roll is filed. It must require the sheriff to. return it to the proper
clerk, within sixty days after the receipt thereof. Except as otherwise
prescribed in the next section, it must be made returnable to the clerk,
with whom the judgment-roll is filed. 
§ 1367. Where an execution is issued out of a court, other than that
in which the judgment was rendered, upon filing a transcript of the 
judgment rendered in the latter court, it must also specify the clerk,
witli whom the transcript is filed, and the time of filing ; and it must
be made returnable to that clerk. If the judgment was rendered in a
justice's court, it must specify the justice's name; and it must omit the
specification, respecting the filing of the judgment-roll. 
§ 1368. An execution, issued upon a judgment for a sum of money,
or directing the paymeut of a sum of money, must specify, in the body 
thereof, the sum recovered, or directed to be paid, and the sum actually
due when it is issued. It may specify a day, from which interest upon 
the sum due is to be computed] in which case, the sheriff' must co11ect
interest accordingly, until the sum is paid. If all the parties, against 
whom the judgment is rendered, are not· judgment debtors, the execu­
tion must sho.v who is the judgment debtor. 
§ 1869. An execution against property must, if the judgment-roll is
not filed in the clerk's office of the county to which it is Issued, specify 
the time when the judgment was docketed in that county. It mnst,
except in a case where special provision is otherwise made by law, sub­
stantially require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, out of the personal
property of the judgment debtor; and, if sufficient personal property
cannot be found, out of the real property, belonging to him, at the time
when the judgment was docketed in the clerk's office of the county, or
at any time thereafter. 
§ 1870. Where a warrant of attachment, issued in the action, bas
been levied, by the sheriff, the execution must substantially require the 
sheriff to satisfy the judgment, as follows:
1. Where the judgment debtor is a non-resident, or a foreign corpo- 
ration, and the summons was served upon him or it, without the State,
or otherwise than personally, pursuant to an order obtained for that
purpose, as prescribed in chapter fifth of this act, and the judgment
debtor bas not appeared in the action; out of the personal property
attached, and, if that is insufficient, out of the real property attached. 
2. In any other case, out of the personal property attached ; and, if
that is insufficient, out of the other personal property of the judgment
debtor; if both are insufficient, out of the real property attached ; and,
if that is insufficient, out of the real property, belonging to him, at the
time when the judgment was docketed in the clerk's office of the county,
or at any time thereafter. 
§ 1871. An execution against real or personal property, in the hands
of an executor, administrator, heir, devisee, legatee, tenant of real
property, or trustee, must subst.antially require the sheriff' to satisfy 
the judgment, out of that property.
§ 1372. An execution against the person must substantially require 
the sheriff, to arrest the judgment debtor, and commit him to the jail 
of the county, until he pays the judgment., or is discharged according
to law. Except where it may be issued, without the previous issuing
and return of an execution against property, it must recite the issuing
and return of such an execution, specifying the county to which it was 
issued. 
§ 1378. An execution f'or the delivery of the possession of real prop­
ert.y, or a chattel, must particularly describe the property, and desig­
nate the party to whom the judgment awards the possession thereof; 
and it must substantially require the sheriff', to deliver the possession
of the property, within bis county, to the party entitled thereto. If a 
sum of money is awarded by the same judgment, it may be collected,
by virtue of the same execution; or a separate execution may be Issued
for the collection thereof, omit.ting the direction to deliver poseessioa
of the property. If one execution is issued for both purposes, it must
contain, with respect to the money to be collected, the same directions as 
an execution against property, or against the person, as the case requires
§ 1374. a jt~dgment awteards diffit~rent sumbs ?f mdoney, to or 
agams ineren par ies, a. separa execn 1011 may e issue , to collect
each sum so awarded ; subject to the power of the court, to control the 
enforcement of the executions, upon motion, where the collection of one
execution will, wholly or partly, satisfy another. 
§ 1375. Except as otherwise specially prescribed by law, the party 
· fi I · d t, h · · h .
recovermg a ua JU gmen or 1s assignee, may ave execution there- 
ui,011, of course, at e.uy time within five years after the entry of the
judgment. 
§ 1376. Where the party recovering a final judgment has died, e~eentiou may be issued at any time within five years after the entry of 
the judgment, by his personal representatives, or by the assignee of
the judgment, if it has been assigned, and the execution must be in- 
dorsed with the name and residence of the person issuing the same.
§ 1377. After the lapse of five years from the entry of a final judg- 
ment, execution can be issued thereupon, in one of the following cases
only: 
1. Where an execution was issued thereupon within five years after
the entry of the judgment, and has been returned wholly or partly 
unsatisfied or unexecuted.
2. Where an order is made by the court, granting leave to issue the 
execution.
§ 1378. Notice of an application for an order, gra.nt.ing leave to issue 
an execution, as prescribed in the 18.b~· section, must be served personally upon the adverse party, if he is a resident of the State, and 
personal service can, with reasonable diligence, be made upon him
therein; ot.herwise, notice must be given in such manner as the court
directs. Where the judgment is for a sum of money, or directs the
payment of a sum of money, leave shall not be granted, except on
proof, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, that the judgment
remains who1ly or partly unsatistled. 
§ 1379. An execution to coJlect a sum of money cannot be issued,
against the property of a judgment debtor, who has died since t.he 
eutry of the judgment, except as prescribed in the next two sections.
§ 1380. After the expiration of one year from the death of a part.y, 
against whom a final judgment for a sum of money, or directing the
payment of a sum of money, is rendered, the judgment may be en- 
forced by execution, against. any propert.y upon which it is a Iien,
with like effect as if the judgment debtor was still living. But such
an execution shall not be issued, unless an order, granting leave to
issue it, is procured from the court, from which the execution is to be 
issued, and a decree, to the same effect, is procured from d. surrogate's
court of the State, which bas duly granted letters testamentary or
letters of administrat.ion, upon the estate of the deceased judgment
debtor. Where the lien of the j11tlgme11t was created as prescribed in section twelve hundred and fifty-one of this act, neither the order nor
the decree can be made until the expiration of three years after letters
testamentary or letters of administration have been duly granted upon
the estate of the decedent; and for that purpose such o. lien, existing
at the decedent's death, continues for throe years and six months
thereafter, notwithstanding the previous expiration of ten years from
the filing of the judgment-roll. 
§ 1881. Leave to issue an execution, as prescribed in the la.st sec- 
tion, must be procured u follows: .
1. Notice of the application, to the court, from which the execution 
is to be issued, for an order, granting leave to issue the execution, must
be given to the person or persons, whose interest in the property will 
be affected by a sale by virtue of the execution, and also to the execu­
tor or administrator or the judgment debtor. The general rules of
practice may prescribe the manner in which the notice must be given ; 
until provision is so made therein, it must be served, either personally, 
or in such manner as the court prescribes, in an order to show cause.
Leave shall not be granted, except upon proof, by affidavit, to the sat­
isfaction of the court, that the judgment remains wholly or partly
unsatisfied. 
2. For the purpose of procuring a decree from the surrogate's court,
granting leave to issue the execution, the judgment creditor must pre­
sent to that court, a written petition, duly verified, setting forth the
facts, and praying for such a decree; and that the persons, specified
in the first subdivision of this section, may be cited, to show cause why
it should not be granted. Upon the presentation of such a petition,
the surrogate must issue a citation accordingly; and, upon the return
thereof, he must make such a decree in the premises, as j ustice req 11 ires. 
§ 1382. The time during which the person, entitled to enfor-ce a
judgment, is stayed from enforcing it, by the provision of a statute, or 
by an injunction or other order, or in consequence of an appeal, is not
a part of the tiine, limited by this title, for issuing' au execution there- 
upon, or for making an application for leave to issue such an executiou. 
§ 1383. The last six sections do not affect the right of a judgment 
~ f'." 
creditor to enforce a judgment, against the property of one or more
surviving judgment debtors, &8 if all the judgment debtors were living. 
In that. case, an execution must be issued iu the usual form; but. the
attorney for the judgmeut creditor must indorse thereupon, a notice to 
the sheriff, reciting the death of the deceased judgment debtor, and
requiring the sheriff not to collect the execution, out of any property
which belonged to him. 
§ 1384. A sale of real or personal property, by virtue of an execu­
tion, or pursuant to t.he directions contained in a judgment. or order,
must be made at. public auction, between the hour of nine o'clock in the 
morning and sunset. 
§ 1885. A person who, before the t.ime fixed for the sale, in a not.ice
or the sale of property, to be made by virtue of an execution, willfully 
takes down or defaces such a notice put up by the sheriff, or by his
authority, forfeits fifty dollars to the judgment creditor, and the same
sum to the judgment debtor; unless the notice was defaced or takeu
down, with the consent of the person seeking to enforce the forfeiture,
or the execution was previously satisfied. 
§ 1386. Au emission by the sheriff to give notice, as required by law,
or the taking down or defacing of a notice, wheu put up, does not *effect 
the validity of a sale, made by virtue of an execution, to a purchaser
in ¥~ faith, with~n~ notice of the omiss~on ?r o~'ence. 
§ 1387. The shentl, t.o whom au execution us directed, or t.he under­
sheriff or deputy-sheriff', holding an execntion, and conductiug a sale 
of property by virtue thereof, shall not, directly or indirectly, purchase
any of the property at the sale. A pm-chase made by him, or to his
use,~ void. 
§ 1388. Where the sheriff, to whom au execution is delivered, dies,
is removed from office, or becomes otherwise disqualified to act, before
the execution is returned, his under-sheriff must. proceed upon the 
execution, as the sheriff mizht have done. lf there is no under-shentr 
the court, from which the execution issued, may designate a person t~ 
proceed thereupon; who may complete the same, &1 an under-sheriff'
might have done. The person so designated must give such security
as the court directs. He is deemed an officer; and is subject to the 
same obligations and liabilities, and has the same power and authority,
in relation to the object of his appointment, as a sheriff, and is entitled 
to fees accordingly. But this section does not apply, in a case where
special provision is otherwise made by law, for the enforcement of an
execution, after the death, removal from office, or other disqualiflcaticn,
of the sheriff', or under-sheriff. · 
TITLE X
.AlrnOLB 1. Property exempt from levy and sale.
2. Lien of an execution upon personal property ; levy up<>n and sale of 
personal property. Rights of indemnitors of sberiff,
8. Sale, redemption, and conveyance of real property ; rights and liabili­ 
ties or persons interested.
4. Remedies for failure of title to real property sold, and to enforce con­ 
tribution. 
TITLE II. 
Ezecution againat prqperty • 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
PROPBRTY BXBXPT FROM LBVY .AND 8.UB. 
8Jlono1' 1389. Ce1-tain special exemptions not a.ff'ected by thia article.
1390. What personal property is exempt, when owned by a householder.
1391. Aclditional personal property exempt in certain cases.
1392. Widow, etc., or married woman entitled to exemption as a house­ 
holder.
1393. Military P.ay, rewards, etc., exempt from execution and other legal 
proceedings.
1894. Right of action for taking, etc., exempt properi7.
1395. Burying ground ; when exempted.
1896. How exempt burying ground designated.
1397. Homestead; when exempted.
1398. How exempt bomestead designated.
1399. 1da1•1ied woman's homestead; when exempted.
1400. When exemption to continue after owner's death.
1401. Exemption; when not affected by temporary suspenslon of residence.
1402. H value of homestead exceeds one thousand dollars, lien attaches to 
surpl:...1.
1403. Id.; how proceeds to be marshalled when property is sold.
1404. Exemption of rea.l property, how cancelled. 
§ 1389. The enumeration, in this article, of the property which is
exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an execution, does not repeal 
. 1 . . f l 1 ti to h . hi h b
any specia provision o aw, re a mg sue an exemption, w ic ~ y 
its terms, is applicable only to a. particular class of persons, or corporations, or to a particular locality, or otherwise to a special case. 
§ 1300. The following personal property, when owned by a housebolder, is exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an execution; and 
each moveable article thereof continues to be so exempt, while the
family, or any of them, are removing from one residence to another: 
1 All . spinning wheels, weaving looms, and stoves, put up, or kept
for use, in a dwelling house; and one sewing machine, with its appur­
tenances. 
2. The family bible, family pictures, and school-books, used by or in
the family; and other books, not exceeding in value fifty dollars, kept
and used as part of the family library. · 
8. A seat or pew, occupied by the judgment debtor, or the family,
in a place of public worship. 
4. Ten sheep, with their fleeces, and the yarn or cloth manufactured
therefrom; one cow; two swiue; the necessary food for those animals;
all necessary meat, fish, flour, and vegetables, actually provided for
family use ; and necessary fuel, oil, and candles, for the use of the
family for sixty days. 
5. AH wearing apparel, beds, bedsteads, and bedding, necessary for
the judgment debtor and the family; all necessary cooking utensils;
oue table; six chairs; six knives; six forks; six spoons; six plates;
six tea cups; six saucers ; one sugar dish ; one milk pot; one tea pot;
one crane and its appendages ; one pair of audirons ; one coal-scuttle j 
one shove) ; one pair of tongs; one lamp ; and one candlestick.
6. The tools aud implements of a mechanic, necessary to the carry· 
in@" on of his trade, not exceeding in value twenty-five dollars. 
§ 1391. Iu addition to the exemptions, allowed by the last section,
necessary household furniture, working tools, and team, professional 
instruments, furniture and library, not exceeding in value two bun­
dred and fifty dollars, together with the necessary food for the team,
for ninety days, are exempt from levy and sale by virtue of an execu­
tion, when owned by a person, being a householder, or having a. family
for which he provides, except where the execution is issued upon a
ju~ent, recovered wholly upon one or more demands, either for
wor'k performed in the family as a domestic, or for the purchase­
money,of one or more articles, except as prescribed in this or the last section. 
§ 1392. Where the judgment debtor is a woman, she is ant.it.led to 
the same exemptions, from levy and sale by virtue of an execution,
subject to the same exceptions, as prescribed in the last two sections, in 
the case of a householder. 
§ 1393. The pay aud bounty of a non-commissioned officer, musician,
or private, in the military or naval service of the United States; a 
land warrant, pension, or other reward, heretofore or hereafter granted 
i by the United States, or by a State, for military or naval services; a
sword, horse, medal, emblem, or device of any kind, presented, 88 
a testimonial, for services rendered in the military or naval service of
the United States; and the uniform, arms, and equipments, which
were used by a person in that service, are also exempt from levy and
sale, by virtue of an execution, and from seizure for non-payment of
taxes, or in any other legal proceeding. 
§ 1394. A right of action to recover damages, or damages awarded
by a judgment, for taking or injuring personal property, exempt by 
law from levy and sale, by virtue of an execution, are exempt, for one
year after the collection thereof, from levy anrl sale, by virtue of an 
execution, and from seizure in any other legal proceeding.
§ 1395. Land set apart as a. family or private ~•trying ground, and 
heretofore designated, as prescribed by law, in vrder to exempt t.he
same, or hereafter designated for that purpose, as prescribed in the 
next section, is exempt from sale, by virt.ue of an execution, upon the
following conditions, only: 
1. A portion of it must have been actually used for that purpose.
2. It must not exceed in extent, one-fourth of an acre. 
3. It. must not contain, at the time of Its designation, or at any time
afterwards, any building 01· structure, except one or more vaults, or 
other places of deposit for the dead, or mortuary monuments. · 
§ 1396. In order to designate land, to be exempted as prescribed in
the la.st section, a notice, containing a full description oft.he land to be 
exempted, and stating that it has been set apart for a family or private
burying ground, must be subscribed by the owner; acknowledged or
proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the
county where the laud is situated; and recorded in the office of the'
clerk or register of that county, in the proper book for recording
deeds, at least three days before the sale of the land, by virtue of the
execution. 
§ 1397. A lot of land, wit.h one or more buildings thereon, not
exceeding in value one thousand dollars, owned, and occupied as a
residence, by a householder having a family, and heretofore designated
as an exempt homestead, as prescribed by law, or hereafter designated
for that purpose, as prescribed in the next section, is exempt from sale,
by virtue of an execution, issued upon a judgment, recovered for a
debt contracted after the thirtieth day of April, eighteen hundred and
fifty; unless the judgment was recovered wholly for a debt or debts,
contracted before the designation of the property, or for the purchase­
money thereof. 
§ 1398. In order to designate property, to be exempted as prescribed
in the last section, a conveyance thereof, stating, in substance, that it 
is designed to be held as a homestead, exempt from sale by virtue of
an execution, must be recorded, as prescribed by law ; or a. notice,
containing a full description of the property, and stating that it is
designed to be so held, must be subscribed by the owner, acknowledged
or proved, and certified. in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the 
county where the property is situated ; and must be recorded in the
office of the clerk of that county, in a book kept for that purpose, and
etyled the "homestead exemption book." 
§ 1399. A lot of land, with .one or more buildi~gs thereon, owned by
a married woman, and occupied by her as a residence, may be desiguated as her exempt homestead, as prescribed in the last section ; and
the property so designated is exempt from sale, by virtue of au execution, under the same circumstances, and subject to the same exceptions, as the homestead of a householder, having a family. 
§ 1400. The exemption, prescribed by the last three sections, continues, after the death of the pertiOll in whose favor the property WO.S 
exempted, as follows:
1. If the decedent was a woman, it continues, for the benefit of her 
surviving children, until the majority of the youngest surviving child.
2. If the decedent was a man, it continues, for the benefit of his 
widow and surviving children, until the majority of the youngest snrvivh.g child, and until the death of the widow. 
But the exemption ceases earlier, if the property ceases to be occu­
pied, as a residence, by a person for whose beuetit it may so continue,
except as otherwise prescribed in the next section. - · 
§ 1401. The right to exemption, of a person entitled thereto, as prescribed in the last four sections, is not affected by a suspensiou of the 
occupation of the exempt property, as a residence, for a period uot
di 
hi b • f • • t 
excee ng one year, w ic occurs m consequence o lllJury o, or
destruction of, the dwelling house upon the premises. 
§ 1402. The exemption of a homestead, otherwise valid under the~:!!-::. 
provisions of this article, is not void, because the value of the property,
designated as exempt, exceeds one thousand dollars. In that case, the 
lien of a judgment attaches to the surplus, as if the property bad not
been designated as an exemtp homestead; but the property cannot be
sold by virtue ~n execution, issued upon a judgment, as against which
it is exempt. Wter the return of such an execution, the owner of the
judgment may maintain a judgment creditor's action, to procure a
judgment directing a sale of the property, and enforcing his lien upon
the surplus:) 
§ 1403. "wnere the judgment, in a judgment creditor's action,
brought as prescribed in the last section, or in any other action affect­ 
ing the title to an exempt homestead, directs the sale of the property,
the court must so marshal the proceeds of the sale, that the right and 
interest of each person in the proceeds, shall correspond, as nearly as
may be, to his right and interest in the property sold. Money, not
exceeding one thousand dollars, paid to a judgment debtor, as repre­
senting his interest in the proceeds, is exempt for one year after the
payment, as the property sold was exempt ; unless, before the expira­
tion of the year, he causes real property to be designated as an exempt
homestead, as prescribed in section one thousand three hundred and
ninety-eight of this act ; in which case, the exemption ceases, with
respect to so much of the money, as was not expended for the purchase
of that property ; and the exemption of the property so designated
extends to every debt, against which the property sold was exempt.
Where the exemption of property, sold as prescribed in this section,
bas been continued after the judgment debtor's death, or where be
dies after the sale, and before payment to him of his proportion of the
proceeds of the sale, the court may direct that portion of the proceeds,
which represents his interest, to be invested, for the benefit of the per­ 
son or persons, entitled to the benefit of the exemption; or to be other­
wise disposed of, as justice requires. 
§ 1404. The owner of real property, exempt as prescribed in this article, may, at any time, subscribe a notice, and personally ackuowl­
edge the execution thereof, before au officer, authorized by law to take 
the acknowledgment of a deed, to the effect, that he cancels all exemptions from levy or sale by virtue of an execution, affecting the property,
or a particular part thereof, fully described in the notice. The cancel­
lation takes effect, when such a notice is recorded, as prescribed in this article for recording a notice to effect the exemption so cancelled. .A.uy
other release or waiver, hereafter executed, of an exemption of real 
property, allowed by this article, or of an exemption of a homestead,
or a private or family burying ground, allowed by the provisions of
law heretofore in force, is void. A mortgage, hereafter executed, upon
property so exempt, is ineffectual, until the exemption has been can­
celled, as prescribed in this section ; except that such a mortgage is 
valid, to the extent of the purchase-money of the same property, secured
thereby. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
L1Elf OP Alf EXBCUTION UPON PKRSONAL PROPERTY; LBVY UP01' AlfD SA.LB OP PBB•
SONA.L PROPHRTY; RIGHTS 011' 1NDBMNITOR8 011' SHBRIFP. 
8BOTI01' 1405. PeJ'80n&l property bound by execution.
1406. Order of preference among executions.
1407. Id.; when attachments also are issued.
1408. Id.; when issued f'rom court not of record,
1409. Title of bona fide purchasers beforelevy, not aft'ected.
1410. Execution may be levied upon current money.
1411. Levy upon certain evidences of debt.
1412. Interest of bailer in goods pledged may be sold.
1413. When partners may apply for release of property levied upon.
1414. Undertaking to he given.
1415. Provision, where a warrant of attachment bas also been levied, etc.
1416. When the umlertak.ing enures to other judgment creditors.
1417. How partner's interest sold; rights, etc., of' purchaser.
1418. Claim of property by a third person, how tried.
1419. Proceedings, if' claimant succeeds.
1420. Inquisition not to prejudice claimant's right.
1421. In action against officer, indemnitors may be substituted as defend- 
ants.
1422. Notice of application and proofs thereupon.
1423. Terms may he imposed.
1424. When indemnity related to part of property.
1425. Application when officer ia joined with indemnitors.
1426. Effect of' the order.
1427. Officer to whom indemnity is given, required to give notice of action.
1428. Sale of' personal property; bow made.
1429. Notices of' sale to be posted. 
§ 1405. The ~oods and chattels of a judgment debtor, not exempt,
by express provision of law, from levy and sale by virtue of an execu- 
tion, and his other personal property, which is expressly declared by
law, to be subject to levy by virtue of an execution, are, when situated 
within the jurisdiction of the officer, to whom an execution against,
property is delivered, bound by the execution, from the time of the
delivery thereof to the proper officer, to be executed; but not before. 
§ 1406. Where two or more executions against property are issued,
out of the same or different courts of record, against the same judg- 
ment debtor, the one first delivered, to an officer, to be- executed, has
preference, notwithstanding that a levy is flrst made, by virtue of an
execution subsequently delivered; but if a levy upon and sale of personal property has been made, by virtue of the junior execution, before
an actual levy, by virtue of the senior execution, the same property
shall not be levied upon or sold, by virtue of the letter.* 
§ 1407. Where there are one or more executions, and one or more
warrants of attachment, against the property of the same person, the 
rule prescribed in the last section prevails, in determining the preferences of the executions or warrants of attachment; the defendant in
the warrants of attachment being, for that purpose, regarded as a judgment debtor. 
§ 1408. But an execution, issued out of a court not of record, or a
warrant of attachment, granted in an action pending in a court not of
record, if actually levied, has preference over another execution, issued
out of any court, of record or not of record, which has not been previously levied. 
§ 1409. The title to personal property, acquired before the actual
levy of an execution, by a purchaser in good faith, and without notice 
that the execution has been issued, is not affected by an execution de­
livered, before the purchase was made, to an officer, to be executed. 
§ 1410. The officer, to whom an execution agaiust property is de­
livered, must levy upon current money of the United States, belonging 
to the judgment debtor; and must pay it over, as so much money col­
lected, without exposing it for sale ; except that where it consists of 
gold coin, he must sell it, like other personal property; unless he is
otherwise directed, by an order of a Judge, or by the judgment in the 
particular cause.
§ 1411. The officer, to whom an execution against property is deliv­ 
ered, must levy upon and sell, a bill, or other evidence of debt, belong­
ing to the judgment debtor, which was issued by a moneyed corporation to circulate as money ; or a bond or other instrnmen t for the
payment of money, belonging to the jndgruent debtor, which was
executed and issued, by a government, state, county, public officer, or
municipal or other corporation, and is in terms negotiable, or payable
to the bearer, or bolder. 
§ 1412. The interest of the judgment debtor in personal property,
subject to levy, lawfully pledged, for the payment of money, or the
performance of a contract or agreement, may be sold, in the hands of 
the pledgee, by virtue of an execution against property. The purchaser
at the sale acquires all the right and interest of the judgment debtor,
and is entitled to the possession of the property, on complying with
the terms and condit.ions, upon which the judgment debtor could ob­
tain poeseseion thereof. This section does not apply to property, of
which the judgment debtor is unconditionally entitled to the possession. 
§ 1413. Where an officer has seized personal property of a partner­
ship, before or after its dissolution, upon a levy upon the interest 
therein of a partner, made by virtue of ·an execution against bis indi­
vidual property, the other partners, or former partners, having an 
interest in the property, or any of them, may, at any time before the
sale, apply to a judge of the court, or to the county judge of the county, 
where the seizure was made, upon an affidavit, showing the facts, for
an order, directing the officer to release the property, and to deliver it 
to the applicant. ·
§ 1414. Upon such an application, the applicant must give an under­ 
taking, with at least two sureties, approved by the judge, to the effect,
that he will account to the purchaser, upon the sale to be made by vir­
tue of the execution, of the interest of the judgment debtor in the prop­
erty seized, in like manner as he would be bound to account to an
assignee of such an interest; and that he will pay to the purchaser the
balance, which may be found due upon the accounting, not exceeding
a sum, specified in the undertaking, which must be not less than the
value of the interest of the judgment debtor, in the property seized by 
the sheriff, as fixed by the judge. The provisions of sections six hun­
dred and ninety-five and six hundred and ninety-six of this act apply
to the proceedings, taken as prescribed m this and the last section. 
§ 1415. Where a warrant of attachment has been levied upon the
interest of a defendant, as a partner, in personal property of a partner­ 
ship, and the attachment has been discharged 88 to that interest, as
prescribed in sections six hundred and ninety-three and six hundred 
and ninety-four of this act, a levy, by virtue of an execution against
bis individual property, cannot be made upon his interest in the same 
properly, nnleas the warrant of attachment has been vacated, or annulled. 
§ 1416. Where personal property of o. partnership baa been released,
upon giving an undertaking, as prescribed in the last three sections, if 
the execution, by virtue of which the levy was made, is set aside, or is
satisfied without a sale of t.be interest levied upon, the undert.aking
enures to the benefit of each judgment creditor of the same judgment
debtor, then having an execution in the hands of the same officer, or of
another officer, having authority to levy upon that interest, as if it bad
been given to obtain a release from a seizure, made by virtue of such
an execution. 
§ 1417. Where personal property of a partnership has been so
released, the interest. of the judgment debtor therein may be sold by
the officer; and the purchaser, upon the sale, acquires all that interest,
as if be was an assignee thereof. If the purchase-money exceeds the 
amonnt of all the executions and warrants of attachment, against the
property of the same judgment debtor, of which the officer has notice,
and of the lawful fees and charges thereon, the officer must pay the
surplus into court, for the benefit of the judgment debtor, or other person entitled thereto. 
§ 1418. If personal property, levied npon as the property of the
judgment debtor, is claimed, by or in behalf of another person, as his 
property, the officer may, in his discretion, erupanel a jury to try the
validity of the claim. 
§ 1419. If, by their inqnisition, the jurors find t.bat the property
belongs to the claimant, they must also determine its value. There- 
upon the officer may relinquish the levy, unless the judgment creditor
gives him an undertaking, with at.least two sufficient sureties, to the
effect, that the sureties will indemnify him, to an amount therein specified, not less than twice the value of the property, as determined by
the jury, and two hundred and fifty dollars iu addition thereto, agaiust
all damages, costs and expenses, in an action to be . brought against
him, by the claimant, his assignee, or other representative, by reason
of the levy npon, detentiou, or sale of any of the property, by virtue
of the execution. If t.he undertaking is given, the officer must detain
the propert.y, as belonging to t.he judgment debt.or. 
§ 1420. If the property ie found to belong to the defendant, the finding does not prejudice the right of the claimant, to bring an action to 
recover the property so levied upon, or damages by reason of the levy,
detention, or sale. 
§ 1421. Where an action to recover a chattel, hereafter levied upon
by virtue of an execution, or a warrant of attachment, or to recover 
f d
. 
damages by reason o a. levy upon, etention, or sale of personal property, hereafter made, by virtue of an execution, or a warrant of attach- 
ment, is brought against an officer, or against a person who acted by
. his command, or in his aid, if a bond or written undertaking, indem­ 
nifying the officer against the levy or other act, was given, iu behalf of
the judgment creditor, or the plaintifff in the warrant, before the action
was commenced, the person or persons who gave it, or the survivors, if
one or more are dead, may apply to the court, for an order to substitute
the applicants, as defendants m the action, in place of the officer, or of
the person so acting by his command, or in his aid. 
§ 1422. Notice of the application must be given to the att.omey for
each party to the action. If the defendant has not appeared, notice 
must be given to him personally. If the pleadings do not sufficiently 
show, that the case is one where the order may be granted, the facts,
with respect thereto, must be shown by affidavit, or other competent
proof. The motion papers must, contain a written consent, to be made
a defendant in the action, executed by each person, who executed the
instrument or indemnity, unless proof, by affidavit, is furnished, that
those who do not consent are dead. Each consent must be acknowJ­
edged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded
in the county. 
§ 1423. Upon granting the order, the court may, in its discretion,
require the applicants to furnish additional security to the plaintifff, and
to pay the reasonable expenses of the defendant, necessarily incurred 
before the order is ranted; or it may impose such other terms, for the
security of either o the osigiual parties, as justice requires. 
§ 1424. If the indemnity, given by the applicants, related to a part
only of the property, the court may, in a proper case, direct, that the
action be divided into two actions; that the applicants be substituted 
as defendants in one, without affecting the other; and that the contro­
versy in each action be limited to that part of the property, in respect 
to which it is to be continued. Where such an order is made, a similar
application may be subsequently made, in the action which proceeds
against the original defendant, 
§ 1425. If the officer, or person acting by his command, or in bis aid,
is joined as a defendant, with all the persons entitled to make an appli­ 
cation, they may apply Cor an order to strike out his name, as a def end­
ant. IC he is joined as a defendant, with one or more, but not all of 
them, those who are not made defendants, may apply to be sub-tituted
as defendants in his place. In either case, the application is made in
the same manner, and is subject to the same provisions, a.a if it was
me.de as prescribed in section one thousand four hundred and twenty­
one or this act. 
§ 1426. An order, made as prescribed in the last five sections, does
d 
not affect the merits of the cause of action, or of the efence, except so
Car as it limits the controversy to particular property. But if the sub­
stituted or remaining defendants recover judgment, they are entitled
to single costs only. If the action is discontinued, or the complaint
dismissed, a new action may be brought, as if the former action had
not been brought, 
§ 1427. Where an action is brought, in a case where one or more per­ 
sons are entitled to make an application, for an order of substitution,
as prescribed in section one thousand four hundred and twenty-one of
this act, the officer, to whom the instrument of indemnity was given, 
cannot maintain an action thereupon, against a person entitled to make,
but who has not made, such an application ; unless notice of the com­ 
mencement of the action against the officer, or the person acting by his
command, or in bis aid, is given, before the trial thereof, or at least ten
days before judgment by default is taken therein, either to the attorney
whose name is subscribed to the execution or warrant of attachment,
or, personally, to the judgment creditor, or to the plaintifff' in the 
action in which the warrant of attachment was issued, or to one of the
persons who executed the instrument of indemnity. 
§ 1428. Personal property must be offered for sale, in such lots and
parcels, as are calculated to bring the highest price. Except where 
the officer is expressly authorized, by this article, to sell property not
in his possession, personal property shall not be offered for sale, unless
it is present, and within the view of those attending the sale. 
§ 1429. At least six days' previous notice of the time and place of a.
sale of personal property, by virtue of an execution, must be given, by
posting couspicuously written or printed notices thereof, in at least 
three public places of the town or city, where the sale is made. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
&LB. RBosMPTtoN AND CoN\'BYANCR ov Re:AL PBoPBRTY; RlGBT8 .L.'fD LIABILITl'BI
OJ.I PBR801f8 INTKRBSTBD, 
8.aano.M 1430. To what leasehold property this article applies.
1481. Real property held in trust, when liable to execution.
1432. Equity of rederuption j when not to be sold.
1433. Direction to he indorsed on execution.
1434. Notice of sale of real property; how given.
1435. Property, bow described tberein, Part ma.y be eold,
1436. Penalty for irregularity in sale.
1437. Manner of conductin!f sale.
1438. Sheriff to make duplicate certificates of sale.
1439. Certificate to be recorded, etc.
1440. Title to real property not divested before deed.
1441. Rights of holder of the property during intermediate period. 
1442 Oi-der- to prevent waste; when and how applied fol',
1443. Proceedings to punish violation of the order,
1444. Mocle and extent of punishment. ·
1445. How warrant, etc .• superseded.
1446. When and how real property sold may be redeemed.
1447. By whom such redemption may be made.
1448. Ruch redemption avoids the sale.
1-149. When creditor may redeem, 
1450. What sum to he paid, etc .• when creditor redeems.
14:H. Redemption by another creditor from a redeeming creditor.
14:i2. Id.; when second redeeming creditor has the prior lien.
14:,3. Subsequent redemptions by other creditors.
1454. When creditor may redeem after fifteen months.
14f>5. When redemption must he made at sheriff's office,
1456. Original purchaser may redeem, when aoo a creditor,
1457. Creditor may redeem &gR.in under another judgment, or DWJigage, 
1468. Redemption l,y person entitled to redeem pa.rt.
14fJ9. Redemption hy owners of undivided shares,
14ti0. Id.; by creditors havmg liens on undivided shares.
1461. Right to redeem not a.ffected by agreement.
1462. To whom money paid upon redemption.
1463. Certificate of satisfaction required to effect redemption by creditor.
1464. What evidence a redeeming judgment creditor must furnish.
1465. Id.j as to mortgage creditor.
1466. Id.j as to executor or administrator, 
1467. Officers to keep papers open to inspection; when to file them.
1468. Wht!n redemption takes effect. 
146~. Certificate to he given. when redemption made.
l4i0. Certitieate may be acknowledged and recorded,
1471. When and by whom conveyance to be executed.
14i2. To whom conveyance to he executed. 
1473. When conveyance made to executor or adminietra.tor; effect thereof. 
14i4. Assigmmmt must be acknowledged and filed ..
14i5. Under-sheriff or successor to act, if sheriff dies. 
1476. Money may be paid, etc., to uuder-eheriff, or deputy-sherlff, who
sold pi-operty. 
1477. Applicatiou of this article to ea.le by coroner, or person apeci&lly
appoiuted, etc. 
1478. IJ.; where coroner or person appointed dies, etc. 
§ 1430. The expression, "real property ", as used in this and the
succeeding article, includes leasehold property, where the lessee or his~:::~ 
• " d h • f h l f l fl 
ass1gn~e is poseesse , at t e time o t e sa e, o at east ve yean
unexpired term of the Ieaee, and also or the building or buildings, it 
any, erected thereupon. 
§ 1431. Real property, held by one person, in tmst or for tbt, use of
another, is liable to levy and sale by virtue of an execution, issued
upon a judgment recovered against the person, to whose use it is so 
held, in a case where it is prescribed by law, that, by reason of the
invalidity of the trnst, an estate vests in the beneficiary; but special
provision is not otherwise made by law, for the mode of subjecting it 
to his debts. 
§ 1432. The judgment debtor's equity of redemption, in real prop­
erty mortgaged, shall not be sold by virtue of an execution, issued
upon a jnagment recovered for the mortgage debt, or any part thereof. 
§ 1483. Where an execution against property, is issued upon a jndg­
ment, specified in the last section, to the county where the mortgaged 
property is situated, the attorney, or other person who subscribes it,
must indorse thereupon a direction to the sheriff', not to levy it upon
the mortgaged property, or any part thereof. The· direction must
briefly describe the mortgaged property, and refer to the book and
page, where the mortgage is recorded, If the execution is not col­
lected out of the other property of the judgment debtor, t.he sheriff
must return it wholly or partly nnsatisfied, as the case requires. 
§ 1434. The sheriff' who sells real property, by virt.ue of an execution,
must previously give public notice of the time and place of the sale, as 
follows: 
1. A written or printed notice thereof must be conspicuously fast­
ened up, at least forty-two days before the sale, in three public places,
in the town or city where the sale is to take place, and also in three
public places. in the town or city where the property is situated, if the
sale is to take place in another town or city. 
2. A copy of the notice must be published, at least once in each of
the six weeks, immediately preceding the sale, in a newspaper pub­
lished in the county, if there is one; or, if there is none, in the news­
paper printed at Albany, in which legal notices are required to be
published. 
§ 1435. In each notice, specified in the laat section, the real property 
to be sold must be described with common certainty, by setting forth
the name of the township or tract, and the number of the lot, if there
is any, or by some other appropriate description. The validity of a
sale is not affected by the fact, that the property sold is part only of the
property advertised to be sold. 
§ 1436. A sheriff who sells real property, by virtue of an execution,
without having given notice thereof, as prescribed in the last two sec­
tions, or otherwise than as prescribed in this chapter, forfE1its one thou­
sand dollars to the party injured, in addition to the damages which
the latter sustains thereby. · 
§ 1437. Where real property, offered for sale by virtue of an exeeu­
tion, eonsists of two or more known lots, tracts, or parcels, each lot, 
tract, or parcel must be separately exposed for sale. If a person who
is the owner of, or is entit.led by law to redeem, a distinct parcel of the
property, of any other description, requires that parcel to be exposed
for sale separately, the sheriff' must expose it accordingly. No more
real property shall be exposed for sale, than it appears to be necessary 
to sell, in order to satisfy the execution. 
§ 1438. The sheriff, who ells real property, by virtue of an execn 
tion, must make out, subscribe, and acknowledge before an officer
authorized to take the acknowledgment of a deed, duplicate certificates 
of the sale, containing:
1. The name of each purchaser, and the time when the sale was 
made.
2. A particu1ar description of the property sold,
8. The price bid for each distinct parcel separately sold.
4. The whole consideration money paid.
§ 1489. The sheriff must, within ten days after the sale, file one of 
the duplicate certificates, in the office of the clerk of the county, and
deliver another to the purchaser. If there are two or more purchasers,
a certificate mnst be delivered to each. The clerk must immediately
record the certificate in a book, kept by him for that purpose, and must
index the record, to the name of the judgment debtor. His fees for so
doing must be paid by the sheriff, as part of the expenses of the sale. 
§ 1440. The right and title of the judgment debtor, or of a person
holding under him, or deriving title through him, to real property, sold 
by virtue of an execution, is not divested by the sale, until the expiration of the period, within which it can be redeemed, as prescribed in~~
this article, and the execution of the sheriff's deed. But if the property
is not redeemed, and a deed is executed in pursuance of the sale, the 
grantee in the deed is deemed .to have been vested with the legal
estate, from the time of the sale, for the purpose of maintaining an
action for an injury to the property. 
§ 1441. The person entitled to the possession of real property, so1d
by virtue of an execution, as prescribed in the last section, may, during 
the period therein specified, use and enjoy the same 8.8 follows, without
being chargeable with committing waste: 
1. He ma.y use and enjoy it in like manner, and for the like purposes, as it was used and enjoyed before the sale, doing no permanent 
injury to the freehold.
2. He may make necessary repairs to a building, or other erection 
thereupon. But this subdivision does not permit an alteration in the
form or structure of the building, or other erection. 
3. He may use and improve the land, in the ordinary course of hus­
bandry; but he is not entitled to a crop, growing thereon, at the expi­
ration of the period of redemption. 
4. He may apply any wood or timber on the land to the necessary
reparation of a fence, building, or other erection, which was thereupon 
at the time of the sale.
5. If he actually occupies the land sold, he may take necessary fire­ 
wood therefrom for use in bis household. 
§ 1442. If, at any time during the period allowed for redemption,
the judgment debtor, or any other person in possession of the property
sold, commits, or threatens to commit, or makes preparations for committing, waste thereupon, the supreme court, or any justice thereof,
within the judicial district, or the county judge of the county, in which
the property, or any part thereof, is situated, may, upon the applica1ion of the purchaser, or his assignee, or the agent or attorney of either,
and proof, by affidavit, of the facts, grant, without norice, an order,
restraining the wrong-doer from committing waste upon the property. 
§ 1443. If the person, against whom such an order is granted, commite waste in violation thereof, after the service upon him of the order, 
with a copy of the affidavit upon which it was granted, the court or
judge, upon proof, by affidavit, of the facts, may grant an order, requir- 
ing him to show eauee, at a time and place therein speci.fi.ed, why he
should not be punished for a contempt. 
§ 1444. If, upon the return of the order to show cause, it sat.isfaetorily
appears, that the person, required to show cause, has violated the
former order, the court or judge may either punish him, as prescribed
by law for the punishment of a contempt of a court of record, other
than a criminal contempt; or may grant a warrant, directed to the
sheriff of the county, reciting the former order, and the violation
thereof, and commanding the sheriff to commit the wro11g doer to close
eontlnement, for a term specified therein, not more than one year. A
person thus committed cannot be admitted to the liberties of the jail. 
§ 1445. The warrant may he superseded, and the prisoner dis­ 
charged, by an order, in the discretion of the court or judge commit­
ting him, upon his executing, to the person who applied for the warrant,
an undertaking, in a sum fixed, and with sureties approved, by the
court or judge, to the effect, that he will pay any judgment, which the
applicent, or his assignee, or other representative, may recover agaiust
him, by reason of any waste theretofore or thereafter committed 011 the
property ; and upon his paying to the applicant, for the costs and
expenses of the proceedings, a sum, fixed by the court or judge. 
§ 1446. Within one year after the sale of real property, by virtue of
an execution, a person, specified iQ. the next section, ruay redeem it, 
by paying to the purchaser, his executor, administrator, or assignee,
or to the sheriff who made the sale, for the use of the person so entitled 
thereto, the sum of money which was paid upon the sale, with interest
from the time of the sale, at the rate of ten per centum a year. 
§ 1447. The redemption, specified in the last section, may be made,
either bv the judgment debtor, whose right e.nd title were sold, or by 
his heir, devisee or grantee, who bas acquired, by inheritance, devise,
deed, sale, by virtue of a mortgage or of an execution, or by any other
means, an absolute title to the property proposed to be redeemed; or,
in a case specified in section one thousand four hundred and fifty-eight
or one thousand four hundred and fifty-nine of this act, to a portion
thereof. 
§ 1448. Upon payment being made, by a person entitled to redeem
real property, 8.8 prescribed in the last two· sections, the sale of the 
property redeemed, and the certificates of the sale, as far as they relate
thereto, become null and void. 
§ 1449. Real property, sold by virtue of an execution, which remains,
at the expiration of one year after the sale, unredeemed by the person 
or persons entitled to redeem it, 8.8 prescribed in the last three sections,
may be redeemed, within three months after the expiration of the year, 
by the creditors specified, and upon the terms and in the manner pre­
scribed, in the following sections of this article. 
§ 1450. In a. ease specified tin thed IB;st. stecttoion, a c~ditor,thaving in
ms own name, or as execu or, a nnms ra r, assignee, rustee, or 
otherwise, a judgment rendered, or a mortgage duly recorded, at any
time before the expiration of fifteen months from the time of the sale, 
w'llich is a lien upon the real property sold, may redeem that property,
by paying the sum of money, which was paid upon the sale thereof,
with interest at the rate of seven per centum a year from the time or 
the sale, and executing a. certificate of satisfaction, as prescribed in section one thousand four hundred and sixty-three of this act. 
§ 1451. Where a creditor bas redeemed real property, as prescribed
in the l88t section, any other creditor, who might have redeemed it 
from the purchaser, as therein prescribed, may redeem it from the flret
redeeming creditor, as follows : 
1. He must reimburse to the first redeeming creditor, his executor,
administrator, or assignee, the sum paid by him to redeem the prop- 
erty, with interest at the rate of seven per centum a year, from the
time of his redemption. 
2. He must execute a certifleate or satisfaction, relating to bis judg­
ment or mortgage, in like manner as the first redeeming creditor was
req uired to do. 
3. If the judgment or mortgage, by virtue of which the first creditor
redeemed, is prior to the judgment or mortgage of the second creditor,
the second creditor must also pay to the fim creditor, the sum specified
in the certificate of satisfaction, executed by him upo1.1 his redemption,
with interest at the rate of seven per ceutmn a year, from the time of
his redemption; unless the first redeeming creditor's judgment or
mortgage bad ceased, when be redeemed, to be a lien as against the
second redeeming creditor; in which case, the latter need not pay any 
part of the sum, specified in the certificate.
§ 1452. Where the lien of the second redeeming creditor's judgment 
or mortgage, is prior to that of the first redeeming creditor's judgment
or mortgage, so that the former redeems, without paying the sum, 
specified in the latter's certificate of satisfaction, the latter may, without executing auother certificate of satisfaction, again redeem from the
former, or from any subsequent redeeming creditor, in a case, where
he would have been entitled to redeem, if bis first certificate bad not
been executed; and he has the same rights, with respect to any creditor redeeming from him, as if his first certificate had been executed,
wheu he made his second redemption. 
§ 1453. A third or other creditor, who might have redeemed, as prescribed in the last four sections, may redeem from the second or any 
other creditor, who has redeemed, in the manner, aud upon the terms
and conditions, prescribed in the last two sections. 
§ 1454. A credit.or, who might have redeemed within fifteen months
after the sale, as prescribed in the last four sections, may redeem from 
any other redeeming creditor, although the fifteen months have elapsed;
provided, that he thus redeems within twenty-four hours after the last 
previous redemption.
§ 1455. A redemption, made by a creditor, on or after the last day 
of the fifteen months, must be made at the sheriff's office of the county.
The sheriff, or his under-sheriff, or a deputy-sheriff, in his behalf, must
attend a.t the sheriff's office, for that purpose, on the last. day of the
fifteen months, and on each day thereafter, in which a redemption can
be made, during the time when the sheriff's office is required by law
to be kept open. In the absence of the sheriff, the redemption may be 
made, by paying t.he necessary money, and delivering the ueceseary
papers, to the under-sheriff, or to auy deputy-sheriff', present at the
sheriff's office. If the term of office of the sheriff, who made the sale,
bas expired, and he, or his under-sheriff, or a deputy-sheriff' authorized, iu his behalf, to receive the necessary money and the necessary
papers, is not present, the money may be paid, and the papers may be 
delivered, to the sheriff then iu office, or to the under-sheriff' or a.
deputy-sheriff of the latter. 
§ 1456. If the purchaser, at the execution sale, of property, which
can be redeemed by a creditor, as prescribed in this article, is also a 
creditor of the judgment debtor, and as such could redeem from a pur- 
chaser, or a redeeming creditor, be may avail himself of his judgment
or mortgage, to redeem from any other redeeming creditor. 
§ 1457. The judgment creditor, by virtue of whose execution real
property bas been sold, cannot avail himself of the judgment, upon
which the execution was issued, to redeem the property ; nor, except
as otherwise specially prescribed in this article, can a creditor, who hB.H
once redeemed, avail himself of the same judgment or mortgage, to
redeem again. But if either has another judgment or mortgage, which 
would entitle him to redeem, be may avail himself thereof for that
purpose, in the same manner and on the same terms, as a.ny other
creditor. 
§ 1458. Where a person, who bas an absolute title to, or a judgment
or mortgage, which is a lien upon, a distinct parcel only of the real
property, sold byvirtue of an execution, would be authorized, by this article, to redeem the property, if his title or lien extended to the
whole, he may redeem, from a purchaser, the entire property sold, or
from a prior redeeming creditor, the entire property redeemed by that 
creditor ; except that if his title or lien extends to a distinct parcel
only of one or more parts of the property, which were separately sold,
he can redeem, from a purchaser, only the part or parts thus separately
sold, in which his distiuct parcel is included. 
§ 1459. Where two or more persons own undivided shares, as joint
tenants, or as tenants in common, in real property, sold by virtue of an 
execution, or in a distinct parcel thereof, which has been separately
sold; each of them may redeem, from the purchaser, as prescribed in sections one t.kousand four hundred and forty-six and one thousand
four hundred and forty-seven of this act, the share or interest, belong­
ing to him, by payiug a part of the purchase money, bid for the prop­
erty, or for that distinct parcel thereof, bearing the same proportion to 
the whole, as the share or interest, proposed to be redeemed, bears to 
the property, or distinct parcel separately sold, of which it is a part ;
together with interest on the sum so paid, from the time of the sale, at
the rate of ten per ceutum a year. 
§ 1460. Where the judgment or mortgage of a creditor, entitled to 
redeem, is a lien upon an undivided share, specified in the last section,
he may redeem, from a purchaser, that undivided share, by paying
him the same proportion of the purchase money, which the owner
must have paid to redeem it, as prescribed in the last section ; or be
may redeem, from a prior redeeming creditor, the eutire property re­
deemed by the latter, with like effect and in the same manner, as if 
bis lien attached to the whole.
§ 1461. The sheriff, the purchaser, the judgment creditor or a redeem­ 
ing creditor, cannot, by bis agreement or other act, in auy mauner
impair or prejudice the right of any other person to redeem, as pre- 
scribed in this article. ·
§ 1462. The money required to be paid by a creditor, in order to 
effect a redemption of real property, as prescribed in this article, may
be paid to the purchaser or credit.or, from whom the property is to be
redeemed, his executor, administrator or assignee; or it may be paid,
for the use of the person so entitled thereto, to the sheriff who made 
the sale.
§ 1463. The certificate of satisfaction, required to be executed by a 
creditor, in order to effect a redemption of real property, must be 
acknow ledged or proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be 
recorded in the county; must describe, with reasonable certainty, the 
judgment or mortgage under which he redeems, and specify the sum
duo thereupon; and must state, that the redemption satisfies the judgment or mortgage, in full, or to a specified amount. It must be filed
in the county clerk's office, at or before the time when the money is
11aid to effect the redemption, unless the money is paid to the sheriff"; 
iu which case, the certificate must also be delivered, at the time of the
payment, to the sheriff', who must file it in the county clerk's office, as
prescribed in section one thousand four hundred and sixty seven of this 
act. 
The county clerk, immediately after the execution and recording of
the deed, must enter in his docket, the satisfaction, or partial satisfac­
tion, of a judgment specified in a certificate so filed, as required by
law, when a judgment is collected, by virtue of an execution. If a.
mortgage, specified in the certificate, is recorded in his office, he must 
.eaneel and discharge the mortgage of record, if it is satisfied by the
certificate; or, if it is only partially satisfied, he must make a minute 
of the partial satisfaction, upon the record thereof. If the property
moetgaged is situated in a county, in which there is a register, the
county clerk must trausmit a certified copy of the certificate to the
register, who must, in like manner, cancel and discharge the mortgage
of record, or make a minute of the partial satisfaction thereof. The
clerk's and register's fees, for performing the services specified in this section, must be paid by the sheriff; who may require the person
entitled to a deed to pay him the amount thereof, before the deed is
delivered. 
§ 1464. In order to entitle a creditor by judgment to redeem real
property, as prescribed in this article, he must, when he redeems, file
in the county clerk's office, or deliver to the sheriff, as the case requires, 
the following evidence of his right:
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment, under which he claims the 
right to redeem, duly certified by the county clerk.
2. Each assignment of the judgment, which is necessary to establish 
bis right. An assignment so filed or delivered must be acknowledged
or proved, and certified, in like manner as a. deed to be recorded, or
the execution thereof must be proved, by the affidavit of the creditor,
or of a witness thereto; unless it has been filed, and entered, as pre­
scribed in article third of title first of chapter eleventh of this act, in
which case, a certified copy thereof must be filed or delivered. 
3. An affidavit, made by him, or his attorney or agent, stating truly
the sum remaining unpaid on the judgment, at the time of claiming
the right to redeem. 
§ 1465. In order to entitle a creditor by mortgage to redeem real
property, as prescribed in this article, he must, when he redeems, file 
m the county clerk's office, or deliver to the sheriff', the following evidence of his right: 
1. A copy of the mortgage, under which he claims the right to
redeem, duly certified by the clerk or register of the county. 
2. Each assignment of the mortgage, which is necessary to establish
bis right, acknowledged or proved, and certified, as prescribed in the
last section for an assignment of a. judgment, unless it has been
recorded; in which case a. certified copy of the record must be filed or
delivered. 
8. An affidavit, made by him, or by his attorney or agent, stating truly
the sum remaining unpaid on the mortgage, at the time of claiming the 
right to redeem, 
§ 1466. In either of the cases specified in the last two sectlons, if
the person, proposing to redeem, claims to be entitled so to do, by
reason of his being an executor or adminlstrator of a person, who, if 
living, would be entitled to redeem, he must file or deliver, with the
ot.her papers therein prescribed, a certified copy or a sworn copy of his
letters testamentary, or letters of administration. 
§ 1467. The sheriff to whom one or more faRper-s, specified in the
last four sections, are delivered, must keep them open, at all reasonable
times during the period allowed for redemption, to the inspection of all
persons interested. He must have all those papers at 'the sheriff's 
office, at the times when he is required to attend thereat, for the purpose
of enabling creditors to redeem, as prescribed by law; and he must
file them m the county clerk's office, within three days after the exe­
cution of the deed. 
§ 1468. A redemption by a creditor is effected, only when he bas
paid all the money required to be paid, and filed or delivered all the 
pavers, required to be filed or delivered, as prescribed in this article;
and a waiver of any of those requirements is void, as against a person
who is entitled subsequently to redeem. Where a redemption is thus
effected, it vests in the redeeming creditor all the right, title, and
interest, which the purchaser acquired by the sale. 
§ 1469. Where a redemption is made, as prescribed in this article,
the officer or other person, to whom money is paid, or a paper is 
delivered, for the purpose of effecting the redemption, must execute
and deliver, to the person paying the money or delivering the paper, a 
certiflcate, stating all the facts which transpired before him, with respect
to the redemption. 
§ 1470. Sncb a certificate may be acknowledged or proved, and eer­ 
tilled, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the county where the
property is situated. The recording thereof, in the office of the clerk 
or register of that county, in the book for recording deeds, bas the
same effect, as against subsequent purchasers and iucumbrancers, as
the recording of a conveyance. 
§ 1471. Immediately after the expiration of fifteen mouths from the
time of sale ; except where a redemption has been made on the last 
day of the fifteen months, and, in that case, immediately after the
expiration of twenty-four hours from the last redemption ; the sheriff', 
who made the sale, must execute the proper deed or deeds, in order to 
convey to the person or persons entitled thereto, the part or parts of the
property sold, which have not been redeemed by the judgment debtor,
bis heir, devisee, or assignee. The deed conveys to the grantee therein
the right, tit.le, and interest, which were sold by the sheriff. 
§ 1472. If any part of the property remains unredeemed by a cred­ 
itor, it must be conveyed, by the sheriff, to the purchaser upon the 
sale, except where the certificate of sale bas been assigned; in which
case, it must be conveyed to the last assignee. Any part or parts of
the property sold, which have been rendered* by a creditor, must b$ 
conveyed by the sheriff, to the last redeeming creditor, except where
he has assigned the certificate of redemption, or has executed any
other assignment of his right, title, and interest in the property
redeemed by him; in which case, it must be conveyed to the last
assignee. 
§ 1473. Where a person, entitled to a deed, dies before the delivery 
or the deed, the sheriff must. execute and deliver the deed to his
executor or administrator. The property so conveyed must be held, in 
trust for the use of the heirs or devisees of the decedent, subject to the
dower of his widow, if there is one; but it may be sold, i11 a proper
case, for the payment of his debts, in the same manner as land, whereof
he died seized. 
§ 1474. Before an assignee, or his executor or administrator, is 
entitled to a deed, as prescribed in the last two sections, each assign- 
ment, under which the deed is claimed, must be acknowledgod or
proved, and certified, in like manner as a deed to be recorded in the
county where the property is situated, and must be filed in the office
of the clerk of that county. 
§ 1475. Where a sheriff dies, is removed from office, or becomes
otherwise disqualified to act, at any time after making a sale of real 
property, bJ virtue of an execution, the property, or a distinct parcel
thereof, may be redeemed, by paying the necessary money, and 
delivering the necessary papers, to his under-sheriff, who must also
execute and deliver the proper deed or deeds of property, not redeemed
by the judgment debtor, his heir, devisee, or grantee. If the undersheriff also dies, is removed from offire, or becomes otherwise disqualified to act, the property may be redeemed, by paying the necessary
money, and delivering the necessary papers, to the sheriff's successor
in office, who must also execute and deliver the proper deed or deeds.
The under-sheriff or the sheriff's euccessor, as the case requires, possesses all the powers, and is subject to all the duties and liabilities,
of the sheriff who made the sale, touching the redemption and conveyance of property sold, and the proceediugs relating thereto : and
each provision of law, regulating those proceedings, aud applicable
to the sheriff who made the sale, is applicable to his under-sheriff or
successor. This section applies where a sale was made, either before
or after this act takes effect. 
§ 1476. Where real property is sold, by virtue of an execution, by
the under-sheriff or a deputy-sheriff, in behalf of the sheriff, money 
required to be paid, or a paper required to be delivered, to t.he sherlff,
in order to effect a redemption, as prescribed in this article, at any
time before the last day of the fifteen months from the time oft.he sale,
may be paid or delivered, either to the sheriff, or to the under-sheriff
or deputy-sheriff, who made the sale. 
§ 1477. Where real property is sold, by virtue of an execution, by a
person specially apnointed by the court, as prescribed in section one 
thousand three hundred and sixty-two or section one thousand three
hundred and eighty-eight of this act, it may be redeemed, as prescribed in this article, as if it had been sold by the sheriff', except as 
follows : 
1. Money, required to be paid, or a paper, required to be delivered, 
to t.he sheriff, in order to effect a redemption, as prescribed in this article, at any time before the last day of the fifteen months from the
time of the sale, must be paid t.o the officer who made the sale ; unless
the person entitled to redeem, his agent or attorney, files wit.b the
clerk of the county, with the paper or papers required to he filed, or to
be delivered to the sheriff, for the purpose of effecting the redemption,
his affidavit, to the effect, that the officer is dead ; or has been removed;
or, where he is a coroner, that he is no longer in office ; or that aft.er
diligent search, the affiant has been unable to find him within t.he
county; in which ease, the money may be paid Into court, by paying 
it to the county treasurer, to the credit of the cause, with like effect,
as where it is paid to the sheriff, after a sale by the latter. 
2. The provisions of section one thousand four hundred and fifty-five
of this act, apply to a redemption, upon a sale made as prescribed in
this.section; and the officer, who sold the property, must atteud, ·as the
sheriff is therein required to attend. If he is not preseut, the redemp­
tion may be effected, as prescribed in that section, for redemption in a
case, where the term of office of the sheriff, who made the sale, has 
ex~ired.
§ 1478. If, when the period for redem~tion expires, a coroner, or a 
, • 
person specially appointed by the court, w o has sold real property, by 
virtue of an execution, is dead, or has been removed, or, in the case of
a coroner, if he is no longer in office, the court must, upon the applica­ 
tion of a person entitled to a deed, appoint a person, to execute the
deed accordingly. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
'RJDmDIBS J'OB F AILURB OJ' 1'ITLB TO RBAI. PBOPBllTY BOLD, .um TO BJD'OBOB 0oJr• 
TRJBUTIOl'f. 
8BCTio1' 1479. When evicted purchaser may recover purchase-money.
1480. Remedy of judgment creditor thereupon.
1481. Contribution between owners of real property.
1482. Id.; when part owner redeems.
1483. Order of contribution. 
1484. Contribution, bow enforced by means of original judgment.
1485. Requisites to preserve the lien. 
1486. Entry upon the docket. 
§ 1479. The purchaser of real property, sold by virtue of an execu­
tion, his heir, devisee, grantee, or assignee, who is evicted from the
possession thereof, or against whom judgment is rendered, in an action
to recover the same, may recover the purchase-money, with interest,
from the person for whose benefit the property was sold, where the
judgment was rendered, or the eviction occurred, in consequence, 
either:
1. Of any irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale; or
2. Of the judgment, upon which the execution was issued being 
vacated or reversed, or set aside for irregularity, or error in fact. 
§ 1480. Where final judgment is rendered, against the defendaet,
in an action specified in subdivision first of the last section, the judg­
ment, by virtue of which the sale was made, remains, in his favor, valid
and effectual against the judgment debtor therein, his executor, admin­
istrator, heir or devisee, for the purpose of collecting the sum paid on
the sale, with interest. He may accordingly have a further execution
upon that judgment; but the execution does uot affect a purchaser in
good faith, or an encumbrancer by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, 
whose title or whose encumbrance accrued, bef'~l'e the actual levy 
thereof.
§ 1481. Where the real property of two or more persons is liable to 
satisfy a judgment, and the whole of the judgment, or more than a due
proportion thereof, has been collected, by a sale of the real property of
one or more of them, by virtue of an execution issued upon the judg·
ment; the person so aggrieved, or hi.ts executor or administrator, may 
maintain an action, to compel a just and equal contribution by all the
persons, whose real property ought to contribute as prescribed in the 
next section but one.
§ 1482. Where the heir, devisee, or grantee, of a judgment debtor, 
having an absolute ti_tle to a distinct parcel of real property, sold by
virtue of an execution, redeems, as prescribed in section one thousand
four hundred and fifty-eight of thie act, the property sold, or any part
or parts thereof separately sold, which include his property; he may,
in like manner, maintain an action, to compel a just and equal contribution by those, who own the residue of the property thus redeemed. 
§ 1483. Where an action is brought, as prescribed in the last two sections, the real property is liable to contribution in the following 
order:
1. If it comprises different undivided shares or distinct parcels, 
which have been conveyed by the judgment debtor, they are liable in
succession, commencing with the portion last conveyed. 
2. If it comprises different undivided shares or distinct parcels,
which have been sold by virtue of two or more executions, they are
liable in succession, commencing with the portion sold under the last
and youngest judgment. 
3. If it comprises different undivided shares or distinct parcels, some
of which have been conveyed by the judgment debtor, and some of
which have been sold by virtue of one or more executions, they are
respectively liable in succession, according to the order prescribed in
the first and second subdivisions of this section. 
§ 1484. For the purpose of enforcing contribution, as prescribed in
the last section, the court, in which the action is brought, may, and in 
a proper case, must, permit the plaintifff to use the orir'nal judgment,
and to collect, by an execution issued thereupon, out o any real property subject to the lien thereof, the sum which ought to be contributed
by that, property. For that purpose, the lien of the original judgment,
upon that real property, when preserved, as prescribed in the next section, continues, for the term prescribed in sections one thousand two
hundred and fifty-oue and one thousand two hundred and fifty-five of
this act, to the extent of the sum, which ought to be so contributed,
notwithstanding the payment made by the party seeking contribution. 
§ 1485. The lien of the original judgment may be preserved, as prescribed in the last section, by filing, in the clerk's office of the county
where the real property is situated, within twenty days after thefaymeut, for which contribution is claimed, an affidavit, in behalf o the
person aggrieved, stating the sum paid, and bis claim to use the judgment for the reimbursement thereof, with a notice, requiring the clerk
to make the entries specified in the next section. But the lien is not
preserved, as ~ainst a grantee or mortgagee in good faith, for a. valuable consideration, without notice, and before the entries are actually
made. 
§ 1486. On filing the affidavit and notice, the clerk must make, upon
the docket of the judgment, an entry, stating the sum paid, and that 
the judgment is claimed to be a lieu to that amount. Where it is
desired to preserve the lien, upon property situated in two or more
counties, a similar affidavit and notice must be filed with, and a similar 
6ntry made by, the clerk of each county. 
TITLE X
Ezecutio,n, agtlilnst tM person, 
8Bo'l'loir 1487. In what caeee execution may be issued against the pereon. 
1488. Id.j against a woma.n.
1489. When execution against property must be first issued.
1490. Simultaneous executions not allowed against property and person.
1491. Id.; when debtor bas heen taken.
1492. New execution may issue aft.er escape.
1493. Id.; when debtor dies charged in execution.
1494. Id.; when creditor discharges debtor after thirty days.
1495. New execution not to be enforced against real propert) sold. etc • 
§ 1487. Where a judgment can be enforced by execution, as prescribed in section one thousand two hundred and forty of this act, an 
execution, against. the person of the judgment debtor, may be issued
thereupon, subject to the exception specified in the next section, in
either of the following cases: 
1. Where the pluiutift"'s right to arrest the defendant depends upon
the nature of the action. 
2. In any other ease, where an order of arrest has been granted and
executed in the action, and if it was executed against the judgment
debtor where it has not been vacated. 
§ 1488. But an execution cannot be issued against the person of a
woman, unless an order of arrest has been granted and executed in the 
action, and if it was executed against the judgment debtor, has not
been vacated. 
§ 1489. Unless the judgment debtor is actually confined, without
having been admitted to the liberties of the jail, by virtue of an execn­
tion against his person, issued i"n another action, or of an order of arre~ 
d b hi b "I · th t• t• · th" 
or a surren er y is a1 , m e same ac ion, an execn ion agams 18 
person cannot be issued, until an execution against his property baa
been returned, wholly or partly unsatisfied. If he is a. resident of the 
State, the execution Against his property must have been issued to the
county where he resides. 
§ 1490. An execntion against the person of the judgment debtor 
aunot be issned, without leave of the court, while an execution against
his property, issued in the same action, remains unreturned; and an 
execution against his property cannot be issued, without leave of the
court, while an execution against his person, issued in the same act.ion, 
remains unreturned. 
§ 1491. Where a judgment debtor has been taken, and remains in
custody, by virtue of an execution against his person, another execu­ 
tion cannot be issued, in the same action, against his person or his
property, except in a case specially prescribed by law. 
§ 1492. If a jud~tnent debtor escapes, after having been taken, by 
virtue of an execution against his person, he may be retaken, by virtue
of a new execution against his person ; or an execution against his 
property may be issued, as if the execution, by virtue of which he was
taken, had been returned, without his having been taken. 
§ 1493. Where a judgment debtor, who has been taken by virtue of
t• · th" dl hil · tod · 
an execu ion agams is person, res w 1 e 111 cus y, a new execution
against bis property may be issued, as if the execution, by virtue of 
which he was taken, had been returned without his huving been taken. 
§ 1494. ;A-tt anyftime afterti~ jud~entt hisd~btor bas r:mathined in cus­
y, y vu ue o an execu on agains person, rcr e space of 
thirty days, the judgment creditor may serve upon the sheriff a writ- 
ten notice, requiring him to discharge the jndgment debtor from custody, by virtue of the execution, Whereupon the sheriff must discharge 
the judgment debtor,s and return the execution accordingly. Afr.er
service of such a notice, another execution, a~ainst the person of the
judgment debtor, cannot be issued upon the jndgment ; but after his
discharge, the judgment creditor may otherwise enforce the judgment,
as if the execution, from which he was discharged, had been returned,
without bis having been taken. 
§ 1495. A new execution against property, issued in a case specified
in the laet two sections, cannot be enforced against an interest in real 
property, including a chattel real, which was purchased, in good faith,
from the judgment debtor, after the recovery of the judgment upon 
which it is issued ; or which was sold by virtue of an execution, issued
upon a previous or subsequent judgment. 
§ 1496. This act shall take effect on the first dav of May, eighteen
hundred and seventy-seven. 

§ 2. But the amendments, made to this act by section five hundred 
and forty-nine and five hundred and fifty, shall not apply to an action
commenced; the amendments to sections ei~ht hundred and seventy­ 
two, eight hundred and seventy-three,and eight hundred and eighty,
shall not apply to a case where an order for an examination has been
made ; the amendment to section ten hundred and eleven shall not
apply to a case where a stipulation has been given, and the amendment 
to section thirteen hundred and eighty shall apply only to a case where
the decedent dies, after this act takes effect. Nor shall any amend­
ment made by this act invalidate or impair any proceeding taken. 

