§ 1. [1.] Division of Remedies.
Remedies in the courts of justice are divided into:
1. Actions.
2. Special proceedings.

§ 2. [2.] (Am'd 1849.) Definition of an action.
An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice, by which a
pally prosecutes another party for the enforcement or protection of a right,
the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.

§ 3. [3.] Definition of a special proceeding.
Every other remedy is a special proceeding.

§ 4. [4.] Division of actions into civil and criminal.
Actions are of two kinds:
1. Civil.
2. Criminal.
§ 5. [5.] (Am'd 1849.) Definition of a criminal action.
A criminal action is prosecuted by the people of the State, as a party,
against a person charged with a public offense, for the punishment thereof.
§ 6. [6.] Definition of a civil action.
Every other is a civil action.

§ 7. [7.] Oi'wV and criminal remedies not merged in each other.
Where the violation of a right admits of both a civil and criminal remedy,
the right to prosecute the one is not merged in the other.

§ 8. [8.] (Am'd 1849.) Subjects embraced in this act.
This act is divided into two parts:
The first relates to the courts of justice and their jurisdiction;
The second relates to civil actions commenced in the courts of this State
after the first day of July, 1848, except when otherwise provided therein,
and is distributed into fifteen titles. The first four 69 to 126, both
inclusive), relate to actions in all the courts of the State ; and the others,
to actions in the supreme court, in the county courts, in the superior court
of the city of New York, in the court of common pleas for the city and
county of New York, in the mayor's courts of cities, and in the recorder's
courts of cities, and to appeals to the court of appeals, to the supreme court
to the county courts, and to the superior court of the city of New York.

§ 9. [9-] (Am'd 1849.) The several courts of this State :
The following are the courts of justice of this State :
1. The court for the trial of impeachments.
2. The court of appeals.
3. The supreme court.
4. The circuit courts.
5. The courts of oyer and terminer.
6. The county courts.
7. The courts of sessions.
8. The courts of special sessions.
9. The surrogates' courts.
10. The courts of justices of the peace.
11. The superior court of the city of New York.
12. The court of common pleas for the city and county of New York.
13. The mayors' courts of cities.
14. The recorders' courts of cities.
15. The marine court of the city of New York.
16. The justices' (district) courts in the city of New York.
17. The justices' courts of cities.
18. The police courts.

§ lO. [10.J Their jurisdiction generally.
These courts shall continue to exercise the jurisdiction now vested in
them respectively, except as otherwise prescribed by this act.

§ 11. [11.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1857, 18G2, 1865, 1800, 1807, 1809, 1870.) Its
jurisdiction.
The court of appeals shall have exclusive jurisdiction to review, upon
appeal, every actual determination hereafter made at a general term by the
supreme court, or by the superior court of the city of New York, or the
court of common pleas for the city and county of New York, or the superior
court of the city of Buffalo, in the following cases and no other :
1. In a judgment in an action commenced therein or brought there from
mother court; and upon the appeal from such judgment to review any
ntermediate order involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the judg
ment.
2. In an order affecting a substantial right, made in such action, when
uich order in effect determines the action and prevents a judgment from
which an appeal might be taken, or discontinues the action, and when such
order grants or refuses a new trial, or when such order strikes out an
answer, or any part of an answer, or any pleading in an action ; but no
appeal to the court of appeals from an order granting a new trial on a case
made or bill of exceptions, shall be effectual for any purpose, unless the
notice of appeal contain an assent on the part of the appellant, that, if the
order be affirmed, judgment absolute shall be rendered against the appellant.
Upon every appeal from an order granting a new trial, on a case made or
exceptions taken, if the court of appeals shall determine that no error was
committed in granting the new trial, they shall render judgment absolute
upon the right of the appellant ; and after the proceedings are remitted to
the court from which the appeal was taken, an assessment of damages or
jother proceedings to render judgment effectual may be then and there had,
in cases where such subsequent proceedings are requisite.
3. In a final order affecting a substantial right made in a, special proceed
ing, or upon a summary application in an action after judgment, and upon
Buch appeal to review any intermediate order involving the merits and
necessarily affecting the order appealed from. But such appeal shall not be
allowed in an action originally commenced in a court of a justice of the
peace, or in the marine court of the city of New York, or in an assistant,
justice's court of that city, or in a justice's court of any of the cities of this
State, unless any such general term shall, by order duly entered, allow such
appeal before the end of the next term after which such judgment was
entered. The foregoing prohibition shall not extend to actions discontinued
before a justice of the peace and prosecuted in another court pursuant to
sections sixty and sixty-eight of this code. ,
4. Whenever the decision of any motion heretofore made, or of any motion
hereafter to be made, in the supreme court of this State, at a special term
thereof, involves the constitutionality of any law of this State, or has been
or shall be placed in the opinion or reasons for such decision, of the justice
making such decision, upon the unconstitutionality of such law, then an
appeal shall lie, and may be made from such decision, or from the order
entered, or to be entered upon such decision, to the general term of said
court, and an appeal shall also lie and may be made from the decision of
such general term, and from any order entered or to be entered thereon to
the court of appeals ; provided, however, that the time for appealing from
such decision, or from such order, shall not be extended hereby. And such
appeal at the general term, and at the court of appeals, shall be heard as a
non-enumerated motion.
In an order affecting a substantial right, not involving any question of
discretion arising upon any interlocutory proceeding, or upon any question
of practice in the action, including an order to strike out an answer, or any
part of an answer, or any pleading in^n action, such appeals, whether now
pending or hereafter to be brought, may be heard as a motion, and noticed
for hearing for any regular motion day of the court."

§ 12. [12.] May reverse, affirm or modify judgment or order appealed
from.
The court of appeals may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment or ordei
appealed from, in whole or in part, and as to any or all of the parties ; and
its judgment shall be remitted to the court below, to be enforced according
to law.

§ 13. [13.] (Am'd, 1851, 1852, 1858, 1859, 1862, 1863, 1805, 1869, 1870.) Tains
of the court. Preference of causes.
There shall be four terms of the court of appeals in each year, to be held
at the capitol, in the city of Albany, on the first Tuesday of January, the
fourth Tuesday of March, the third Tuesday of June, and the last Tuesday
of September, and continued for as long a period as the public interests
may require. But the judges of said court may, in their discretion, appoint
one of said terms in each year to be held in the city of New York.
Additional terms shall be appointed and held at the same place by the court
when the public interest requires it. The court may, by general rules, pro
vide what causes shall have a preference on the calendar. On a second and
each subsequent appeal to the court of appeals, or when an appeal has once
been dismissed for defect or irregularity, the cause shall be placed upon the
calendar as of the time of filing the first appeal, and may be noticed and put
on the calendar for any succeeding term ; and whenever, in any action or
proceeding in which the people of this state, or any state officer, or any
board of state officers, is or are sole plaintifff or defendant, an appeal has
been or shall be brought from any judgment or order for or against him or
them, in any court, such appeal shall have a preference in the supreme
court and in the court of appeals, and may be moved by either party out
of the order on the calendar. And actions in which one of two or more
plaintifffs or defendants shall have died pending the action, and the pendency
of the action prevents a final settlement of the estate of the deceased party,
shall be preferred on the calendar.

§ 14. [14.] (Am'd, 1849, 1851, 1867.) Number of judges who may give
judgment.
The concurrence of five judges is necessary to pronounce a judgment. If
five do not concur the case must be reheard. But no more than two rehearings shall be had, and if on the second rehearing five judges do not concur,
the judgment shall be affirmed. When five of the judges do not concur,
and a rehearing of the case is ordered, the judges shall file the opinions
read by them with the reporter of the court, but such opinions shall not be
published. No person other than the judges of the court, the reporter of
the court, or the counsel or attorney of either of the parties to the action,
shall have access to or a copy of the said opinions, but such counsel or
attorney may have access to and a copy thereof.

§ 15. [15-] Sheriff to provide rooms, etc., for court.
If, at a term of the court of appeals, proper aud convenient rooms, both
for the consultation of the judges and the holding of the court, with furni
ture, attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery, suitable and sufficient for the
transaction of its business, be not provided for it in the place where by law
the court may be held, the court may order the sheriff of the county to
make such provision, and the expense incurred by him in carrying the order
into effect shall be a county charge.
§ 16. [16.] (Am'd 1851.) Court may be adjourned to places other than
those designated by law.
The court of appeals may be held in other buildings than those desig
nated by law as places for holding courts, and at a different place, in the
same city, from that at which it is appointed to be held. Any one or more
of the judges may adjourn the court, with the like effect as if all were
present.

§ 17. [15.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing statutory provisions, as to terms and
business of the courts, repealed, and order of the supreme court fixing the
leims, etc., abrogated.
All statutes now in force, providing for the designation of the times and
places of holding the general and special terms of the supreme court, and
the circuit courts and courts of oyer and terminer, and of the judges who
shall hold the same, are repealed from and after the first day of July, one
thousand eight hundred and forty-eight ; and the order of the supreme
court, adopted July fourteenth, one thousand eight hundred and fortyseven,
prescribing the times and places of holding the general and special
terms of the court, and the circuit courts and courts of oyer and terminer,
daring the residue of the year one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven,
and for the years one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight and one
thousand eight hundred and forty-nine, and assigning the business and
duties thereof to the several judges of the court, is, from and after the first
day of July, one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight, abrogated, and
the provisions of this title are substituted in place thereof. See preceding
chapter, 408. Ante, p. 38.

§18. [16.] (Am'd 1849.) General terms prescribed.
At least four general terms of the supreme court shall be held annually
in each judicial district, and as many more as the judges in such district
shall appoint, at such times and places as a majority of the judges of such
district shall appoint.

§ 19. [17.] Number 0/ judges to give judgment.
The concurrence of a majority of the judges holding a general term
shall be necessary to pronounce a judgment. If a majority do not concur,
the case shall be reheard.

§ 20. [13-] (Am'd 184'J.) /Special terms, circuit courts and courts of oyer
and terminer pr escribed.
There shall be at least two terms of the circuit court and court of oyer
and terminer held annually in each of the counties of this State, and as
many more terms thereof, and as many special terms, as the judges of each
judicial district shall appoint therein ; but at least one special term shall
be held annually in each of said counties. Fulton and Hamilton shall be
considered one county for the purposes of this section.

§ 521. [19.] (Am'd 1849.) Circuit courts and oyer and terminer held to
gether.
Circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminer, shall be held at the samo
places, and commenced on the same day.

§ 22. [23.J (Am'd 1849. ) Designation of limes and places of holding
courts; how made.
The governor shall, on or before the first day of May, eighteen hundred
and forty-eight, by appointment in writing, designate the times and places
of holding the general and special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer
and terminer, and the judges by whom they shall be held ; which appoint
ment shall take effect on the first day of July thereafter, and shall continue
until the thirty-first day of December, eighteen hundred and forty-nine.
The judges of the supreme court of each district shall, in like manner, at
least one month before the expiration of that time, appoint the times and
places of holding those courts for two years, commencing on the first day
of January, eighteen hundred and fifty, and so on for every two succeeding
years, in their respective districts.

§ 23- [24.] Extraordinary general and special terms, and oyer and ter
miner; how appointed.
The governor may also appoint extraordinary general and special terms,
circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminer, whenever, in his judgment,
the public good shall recpiire it.

§ 24. [25. J (Am'd 1849, 1851, 18G2.) Places of holding the courts.
The places appointed within the several counties for holding the general
and special terms, circuit courts and courts of oyer and terminer, shall be
those designated by statute for holding county or circuit courts. If a room
for holding the court in such place shall not be provided by the supervisors,
it may be held in any room provided for that purpose, by the sheriff, as
prescribed by section twenty-eight.
General and special terms of the supreme or county courts and circuit
courts and courts of oyer and terminer may he adjourned to he held on any
future day, hy an entry to he made in the minutes of the court ; and juries
may he drawn and summoned for an adjourned circuit or county court, or
an adjourned court of oyer and terminer, and causes may he noticed for
trial at an adjourned circuit or county court, in the same manner as if such
courts were held hy original appointment.
And special terms may he adjourned to he held at a future day at the
chamhers of any justice of said court residing within the district, hy an
entry in the same manner, and then adjourned from time to time, as the
justice holding the same shall order and direct.


§ 25. [26. j. Publication of appointment thereof.
Every appointment so made shall ho immediately transmitted to the sec
retary of state, who shall cause it to be published in the newspaper, printed
at Albany, in which legal notices are required to he inserted, at least once
in each week, for three weeks before the holding of any court in pursuance
thereof. The expense of the publication shall he paid out of the treasury
of the State.
§ 26. [2K-] When judges not assigned may hold the courts.
In case of the inability,' for any cause, of a judge assigned for that pur
pose, to hold a special term or circuit court, or sit at a general term, or pre
side at a court of oyer and terminer, any other judge may do so.

§ 27. [30. J (Am'd 1849.) Duties of judges a.? to business out of court.
The judges shall, at all reasonable times, when not engaged in holding
;ourt, transact such other business as may be done out of court.

§ 28. [31. j Rooms, fuel, etc., how furnished.
The supervisors of the several counties shall provide the courts appointed
to be held therein, with room, attendants, fuel, lights and stationery, suit
able and sufficient for the transaction of then1 business. If the supervisors
neglect, the court may order the sheriff to do so, aud the expense incurred
by him, in carrying the order into effect, when certified by the court, shall
be a county charge.

§ 28. [32. J Repeal of existing statutes defining their jurisdiction.
All statutes now in force, conferring or defining the jurisdiction of the
county courts,' so far as they conflict with this act, arc repealed; aud those
courts shall have no other jurisdiction than that provided in the next sec
tion. But the repeal contained in this section shall not affect any proceed
ings now pending in those courts.

§ 30. [33.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, I860.) Their jurisdiction.
The county court hits jurisdiction iu the following special cases, but has
no original civil jurisdiction except in such cases.
1. Civil actions in which the relief demanded is the recovery of a sum
of money not exceeding five hundred dollars, or the recovery of the pos
session of personal property not exceeding iu value tivu hundred dollars,
and in which all the defendants are residents of the county in which the
action is brought at the time of its commencement; subject to the light of
the supremo court upon special motion for good cause shown to remove
any such action to the supreme court before trial.
2. The exclusive power to review in the first instance, a judgment ren
dered in a civil action by a justice's court in the county, or by a justice's
court in cities, and to affirm, reverse or modify such judgment.
3. The foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, and the sale of mort
gaged premises situated within the county, and the collection of any defici
ency on the mortgage remaining unpaid, after the sale of the mortgaged
premises.
4. The partition of real property situated within the county.
5. The admeasurement of dower in land sjtuated within the county.
6. The sale, mortgago or other disposition of the real property situated
within the county, of an infant or person of unsound mind.
7. To compel the specific performance, by an infant, heir or other per
son, of a contract made by a party who shall have died before the perform
ance thereof.
8. The care and custody of the person and estate of a lunatic or person
of unsound mind, or an habitual drunkard, residing within the county.
9. The mortgage or sale of the real property situated within the county,
of a religious corporation, and the disposition of the proceeds thereof.
10. To exercise the power and authority heretofore vested in such courts
of common pleas, over judgments rendered by justices of the peace, tran
scripts of which have been filed in the offices of the county clerks in such
counties.
11. To exercise all the powers and jurisdiction conferred by statute
upon the" late courts of common pleas of the county, or the judges or any
judge thereof, respecting ferries, 'fisheries, turnpike roads, wrecks, phy
sicians, habitual drunkards, imprisoned, insolvent, absent, concealed or nou
resident debtors, gaol liberties, the removal of occupauts from state lands,
the laying out of railroads through Indian lands, and upon appeal from the
determination of commissioners of highways, and all other powers and ju
risdiction conferred by statute, which has not been repealed, on the late
court of common pleas of the county, or on the county court, since the late
courts of common pleas were abolished, except in the trial and determi
nation of civil actions; and to prescribe the manner of exercising such
jurisdiction, when the provisions of any statute are inconsistent with the
organization of the county court.
12. To remit fines and forfeited recognizances in the same cases and like
manner as such power was given by law to courts of common pleas. But
the first subdivision of this section shall not apply to the county courts of
the counties of Kings and Erie.
13. To grant new trials, or affirm, modify or reverse judgments in ac
tions tried in such court upon exceptions, or case made, subject to an ap
peal to the supreme court; but in any action or proceeding pending in the
county court, in which the county judge is, for any cause, incapable of act
ing, it shall be his duty to make a certificate of such fact, and file the same
in the office of the clerk of such county court, and thereupon jurisdiction of
such action or proceeding shall be vested in the supreme court, and such
further proceedings shall be had therein, according to the practice of such
court, as might have been had in the county court, if auch cause or matter
had remained therein; but all such matters shall be heard or tried in the
first instance at a special term or circuit court, held in a county where such
action or proceeding is situated.

§ 31. [34.J (Am'd 1849, 1851.) General terms; when held; notice to be
published.
The county court is always open for the transaction of any business for
which no notice is required to be given to an opposing party. At least two
terms in each county for the trial of issues of law or fact, and as many more
as the county judge shall appoint, shall be held in each year at the places
in the counties respectively designated by statute for holding county or cir
cuit courts, on such days as the county judge shall from time to time
appoint, and may continue as long as the court deem necessary.
Notice of such appointment shall be published in the state paper at least
four weeks before any such term, and also in a newspaper, if any, printed
in the county ; so many of such terms as the county judge shall designate
for that purpose, in such notice, may be held for the trial of issues of law,
and hearing and decision of motions aud other proceedings, at which no
jury shall be required to attend.
§ 32. [36, 37, 38.] (Am'd 1849.) Jurors; hoio draion and summoned.
Jurors for the county courts and courts of sessions, shall be drawn from
the jury box of the county, and summoned in the same manner as for the
trial of issues at a circuit court.

§ 33. [39.] (Am'd 1849, 1852.) Jurisdiction of the courts named in this title.
The jurisdiction of the superior court of* the city of New York, of the
court of common pleas for the city and county of New York, of the mayors'
courts of cities, and of the recorders' courts of cities, shall extend to the
following actions :
1. To the actions enumerated in sections 123 and 124, when the cause of
action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action shall be situated, within
those cities respectively.
2. To all other actions where all the defendants reside, or are personalljscrvcd
with the summons, within those cities respectively, or where one or
more of several defendants, jointly liable on contract, reside or are per
sonally served with the summons within those cities respectively, exqept in
the case of mayors' and recorders' courts of cities, which courts shall only
have jurisdiction where all the defendants reside within the cities in which
such courts are respectively situated. The supreme court may remove into
that court any action brought under this subdivision and pending in the su
perior court, or court of common pleas for the city and county of New York,
and may change the place of trial therein, as if such action had been com
menced in the supreme court ; such order for removal and for change of
place of trial to be made in the supreme court upon motion, and on filing a
certified copy of such order in the office of the clerk of the superior court,
or of the court of common pleas, such cause shall be deemed to be removed
into the supreme court, which shall proceed therein as if the same had origi
nally been commenced there ; and the clerk, with whom such order is filed,
must forthwith deliver to the clerk of the county in which, by such order,
the trial is ordered to be had, to be filed in his office, all process, pleadings,
and proceedings relating to such cause. And any action or proceeding
pending in any mayor's or recorder's court, in which the judge is far airj
cause incapable of acting, may by such court be transferred to the county
court of the county, and thereupon the papers therein on file in the mayor's
or recorder's court shall be transmitted to the county court, which shall
thenceforth have jurisdiction of such action or proceeding.
3. To actions against corporations, created under the laws of this State,
and transacting their general business, or keeping an office for the transac
tion of business, within those cities, respectively, or established by law
therein, or created by or under the laws of any other State, government or
country, for the recovery of any debt or damages, whether liquidated or
not, arising upon contract made, executed, or delivered within the State, or
upon any cause of action arising therein.

§ 34. [40.] (Am'd 1849.) Court of common pleas of New York has
power to review judgments of the marine and justices' courts.
The court of common pleas for the city and county of New York shall
also have power to review the judgments of the marine court of the city of
New York, and of the justices' courts in that city.

§ 35. [41.1 General and special terms of the superior court and com
mon pleas to be appointed.
The superior court of the city of New York, and the court of common
pleas for the city and county of New York shall, within twenty days, ap
point general and special terms of those courts respectively, and prescribe
the duration thereof; and they may, from time to time, respectively, alter
such appointments ; and hereafter no fees shall be paid for any service of a
judge of either of those courts.
§ 36. [42.] By whom held.
A general term shall be held by at least two of the judges of those
courts respectively, and a special term by a single judge.
§ 3T. [43.] Judgments, where given.
Judgments upon appeal shall be given at the general term ; all others,
at the special term.
§ 38. [44.] Concurrence 6f two judges necessary.
The concurrence of two judges shall be necessary to pronounce a judg
ment at the general term. If two do not concur the appeal shall be re-heard

§ 39. Criers, hoio appointed; salaries, how fixed.
A crier shall be appointed by the superior court of the city of New
York, and by the court of common pleas for the city and county of New
York, respectively, to hold his office during the pleasure of the court. He
shall receive a salary to be fixed by the supervisors of the city and county
of New York, and paid out of the county treasury.
§ 40. Superior court, of whom to consist.
The superior court of the city of New York shall, from the first day
of May, 1849, consist«of six justices.

§ 45. Terms of superior court, and by whom held.
A general term of the superior court may be held by any two of the
six justices thereof, and a special term by any one of them ; and general
and special terms, one or more of them, may be held at the same time.
§ 47. [Am'd 1851.] Certain civil suits may be transferred from the
supreme court to the superior court.
All civil suits at issue at the time of the passage of this act, that from
and after the first of May, 1849, shall be placed upon the calendar of the
supreme court at any general or special term thereof, to be held in the
city of New York, and which shall be in readiness for hearing on questions
of law only, or are equity cases, may by an order of that court or of the
judge holding such special term, be transferred to the said superior court
of the city of New York, and to be heard at the general term thereof.

§ 48. Jurisdiction of superior court in such cases.
The said superior court shall have jurisdiction of every suit so trans
ferred to it, and may exercise the same powers in respect to every such
suit, and any proceedings therein, as the supreme court might have exer
cised, if the suit had remained in that court.
§ 49. [Repealed. Laws of 1851, chap. 2.]
§ 50. Appeal to the court of appeals.
Appeals from the judgments of the superior court in such suits, may be
taken to the court of appeals, in the same manner as from ther judgments
of the superior court in actions originally commenced therein.
§ 51. Section twenty-eight applied to superior court.
The provisions of section twenty-eight of this act, shall apply to the
said superior court.

§52. [4 5. J Repeal of certain existing provisions.
The provisions contained in sections two, three and four, of the article
of the Revised Statutes entitled " Of the jurisdiction of justices' courts."
as amended by sections one and two of the act concerning justices' courts,
passed May fourteenth, one thousand eight hundred and forty, and the
provisions contained in sections fifty-nine to sixty-six, of the same article,
both inclusive, are repealed, and the provisions of this title substituted in
place thereof. But this repeal shall not affect any action heretofore com
menced iu a court of a justice of the peace.
§ 53. [46.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1860, 1861, 1862, 1865.) Jurisdiction of these
courts.
Justices of the peace shall have civil jurisdiction in the following
actions, and no others ; excepting as in the second section* it is provided:
1. In actions arising on contracts for the recovery of money only if the
sum claimed does not exceed two hundred dollars.
2. An action for damages for injury to rights pertaining to the person,
or to personal or real property, if the damages claimed do not exceed two
hundred dollars.
3. An action for a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars.
4. An action commenced by attachment of property, as new provided
by statute, if the debt or damages claimed do not exceed two hundred
dollars.
5. An action upon bond conditioned for the payment of money, not
exceeding two hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed that sum, the
judgment to be given for the sum actually due. Where the payments are
to be made by installments, an action may be brought for each installment
as it becomes due.
6. An action upon a surety bond taken by them, though the penalty or
amount claimed exceed two hundred dollars.
7. An action upon a judgment rendered in a court of justice of the
peace, or by a justice, or other inferior court in a city where such action is
not prohibited by section seventy-one.
8. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant, where
the amount confessed shall not exceed five hundred dollars, in the manner
prescribed by article eight, title four, chapter two, of part three of the
Revised Statutes.
9. An action for damages for fraud in the sale, purchase or exchange of
personal property, if the damages claimed do not exceed two hundred
dollars.
10. 1.] An action to recover the possession of personal property claimed,
the value of which, sis stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney, shall not exceed the sum of one. hundred dollars. 2. J The
plaintifff in such action at the time of issuing the summons, but not after
ward, may claim the immediate delivery of such property as hereinafter
provided. 3.] Before any process shall be issued in an action to recover
the possession of personal property, the plaintifff, his agent or attorney,
shall make proof by affidavit showing: 1. That the plaintifff is the owner,
or entitled to immediate possession of the property claimed, particularly
describing the same. 2. That such property is wrongfully withheld or
detained by the defendant. 3. The cause of such detention or withhold
ing thereof, according to the best knowledge, information and belief of
the person making the affidavit. 4. That said personal property has not
been taken for any tax, tine or assessment pursuant to statute, or seized by
virtue of an execution or attachment against the property of said plaintifff, or
if so seized, that it is exempt from such seizure by statute. 5. The actual
value of said personal property. 4.] On receipt of such affidavit, and an
undertaking in writing, executed by one or more sufficient sureties, to bo
approved by the justice of the peace before whom such action is com
menced, to the eti'ect that they are hound in double the value of such
property as stated in said affidavit, for the prosecution of said action, and
for the return of said property to the defendant, if return thereof be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause
be recovered against said plaintifff, the justice shall indorse upon said affida
vit a direction to any constable of the county in which said justice shall
reside, requiring said constable to take the property described therein from
the defendant, and keep the same to be disposed of according to law ; and 
the said justice shall, at the same time, issue a summons directed to the
defendant, and requiring him to appear before said justice at a time and
place to he therein specified, and not more than twelve days from the date
thereof, to answer the complaint of said plaintifff ; and the said summons
shall contain a notice to the defendant that in case he shall fail to appear
at the time and place therein mentioned, the plaintifff will have judgment
for the possession of the property described in said affidavit, with the costs
and disbursements of said ac tion, 5.] The constable to whom said affida
vit, indorsement and summons shall be delivered, shall forthwith take
the property described in said affidavit, if he can find the same, and shall
keep the same in his custody. He shall thereupon, without delay, serve
upon said defendant a copy of such affidavit, notice and summons, by
delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found in said county ;
if not found, to the agent of the defendant in whose possession said prop
erty shall be found ; if neither can be found, by leaving such copies at the
last or usual place of abode of the defendant, with some person of suitable
age and discretion. And shall forthwith make a return of his proceedings
thereon, and the maimer of serving the same, to the justice who issued the
said summons. ti.j The defendant may at any time after such service,
and at least two days before the return day of said summons, serve upon
plaintifff or upon the constable who made such service, a notice in writing
that he excepts to the sureties in said bond or undertaking ; and if" he fails
to do so, all objection thereto. shall be waived. If such notice be served,
the sureties shall justify, or the plaintifff give new sureties on the return
day of said summons, who shall then appear and justify, or said justice
shall order said property delivered to defendant, and shall also render
judgment for defendant's costs and disbursements. 7.J At any time
before the return day of said summons, the said defendant may, if he ha->
not excepted to plaintifff's sureties, require the return of said property to
him, upon giving to the plaintifff, and filing same with the justice, a written
undertaking, with one or more sureties, who shall justify before said justice
on the return day of said summons, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of said property, as stated in plaintifff's affidavit, for the
delivery thereof to said plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for
the payment to him of such sum us may for any cause be recovered against
said defendant ; and if such return be not required before the return day
of said summons, the property shall be delivered to said plaintifff. [§ H. J
The qualification of sureties, and their justification under this act, shall be
the same as provided in sections one hundred and ninety-four and one hun
dred and ninety-five of the Code, in respect to bail on arrest in the supreme
court. £>.] Sections two hundred and fourteen, two hundred and fifteen
and two hundred and sixteen of the Code, shall apply to proceedings and
actions brought under this act, substituting the word constable tbi the
word sheriff whenever it occurs in either of said sections. 10.] The
actions so commenced shall be tried in all respects as other actions are tried
in justices' courts. The judgment for the plaintifff may be for the posses
sion, or for the recovery of the possession, or the value thereof, in case a
delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If the property
have been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return
thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property,
or the value thereof in case a return cannot l>c had, and damages for taking
and withholding the same. An execution shall be issued thereon, and if
the judgment be for the delivery of the possession of personal property, it
shall require the officer to deliver the possession of the same, particularly
describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require
the officer to satisfy any costs or damages recovered by the same judgment
out of the personal property of the party against whom it was rendered, to
be specified therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had. The execution
(hall be returnable within sixty days after its receipt by the officer, to the
justice who issued the same. [§ 11. J In all actions for the recovery of the
possession of personal property, as herein provided, if the property shall
not have been delivered to plaintifff, or the defendant by answer shall
claim a return thereof, the justice or jury shall assess the value thereof,
and the injury sustained by the prevailing party by reason of the taking or
detention thereof, and the justice shall render judgment accordingly, with
costs and disbursements. 12. J If it shall appear by the return of a con
stable that he had taken the property described in the plaintifff's affidavit,
and that defendant cannot be found, and has no last place of abode in said
county, or that no agent of defendant could be found on whom service
could be made, the justice may proceed with the cause in the same manner
as though there had been a personal service. 13.] For the indorsement
on said affidavit, the justice shall receive an additional fee of twenty-five
cents, which shall be included in the costs of the suit.

§ 54. [47. J Jurisdiction in civil actions limited.
But no justice of the peace shall have cognizance of a civil action.
1. In which the people of this State are a party, excepting for penalties
not exceeding one hundred dollars.
2. Nor where the title to real property shall come in question, as pro
vided by sections 55 to (>2, both inclusive.
3. Nor of a civil action for an assault, battery, false imprisonment,
libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction.
4. Nor of a matter of account where the sum total of the accounts of
both parties, proved to the satisfaction of the justice, shall exceed four
hundred dollars.
5. Nor of an action against an executor or administrator, as such.

§ 55. [48]. Answer of title to land.
In every action brought iu a court of justice of the peace, where the
title to real property shall come in question, the defendant may, either
with or without other matter of defense, set forth in his answer any matter
showing that such title will come in question. Such answer shall be in
writing, signed by the defendant or his attorney, and delivered to the
justice. The justice shall thereupon countersign the .same and deliver it
to the plaintifff.

§ 56. [49.] (Am'd 1851, 1858.) Undertaking therein.
At the time of answering, the defendant shall deliver to the justice a
written undertaking, executed by at least one sufficient surety, and ap
proved by the justice, to the effect that if the plaintifff- shall, within twenty
days thereafter, deposit with the justice a summons and complaint hi an
action in the supreme court for the same cause, the defendant will, within
twenty days after such deposit, give an admission in writing of the service
thereof.
Where the defendant was arrested in the action before the justice, the
undertaking shall further provide, that he will, at all times, render himself
amenable to the process of the court during the pendency of the .action,
and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein. In case of
failure to comply with the undertaking, the surety shall be liable, not
exceeding one hundred dollars.

§ 57. r50.] (Am'd 1851, 1858.) Suit before justice to be discontinued.
Upon the delivery of the undertaking to the justice, the action before
him shall be discontinued, and each party shall pay his own costs. The
costs so paid by either party shall be allowed to him, if he recover costs in
the action to be brought for the same cause in the supreme court. ■ If no
such action be brought within thirty days after the delivery of the under
taking, the defendant's costs before the justice may be recovered of the
plaintifff.

§ 5S. [51.] Proceedings if undertaking not given.
If the undertaking be not delivered to the justice, he shall have juris
diction of the cause, and shall proceed therein ; and the defendant shall be
precluded, in his defense, from drawing the title in question.

§ 59. [52.] (Am'd 1849.) Proceedings if undertaking not given.
If, however, it appear on the trial, from the plaintifff's own showing, that
the title to real property is in question, and such title shall be disputed by
the defendant, the justice shall dismiss the action, and render judgment
against the plaintifff for the costs.

§ 60. [53.] (Am'd 1851, 1858.) New action in supreme court, pleadings
therein.
Whtiii a suit before a justice shall he discontinued hy the delivery of an
answer and undertaking, as provided in sections 55, 56, and 57, the plaintifff
may prosecute an action for the same cause in the supreme court, and shall
complain for the same cause of action only on which he relied before the
justice; and the answer of the defendant shall set up the same defense only
which he made before the justice.

§ 61. [54.] (Am'd 1851, 1858.) Costs of action in supreme court.
If the judgment in the supreme court be for the plaintifff, he shall re
cover costs; if it be for the defendant, he shall recover costs, except that
upon a verdict he shall pay costs to the plaintifff unless the judge certify
that the title to real property came in question on the trial.

§ 62. [55. J (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1858, 1860.) Proceedings, when several causes
of action, and answer of title as to one.
If, iu au action before a justice, the plaintifff have several causes of action,
to one of which the defense of title to real property shall be interposed,
and as to such cause, the defendant shall answer and deliver an undertaking
as provided in sections fifty-five and fifty-six, the justice shall discontinue
the proceedings as to that cause, and the plaintifff may commence another
action therefore in the supreme court. As to the other causes of action, the
justice may continue his proceedings.
All actions pending iu any county court, on the seventh day of May,
eighteen hundred and fifty-eight, in all cases in which a plea of title was
interposed in actions originally commenced in a justice's court, are trans
ferred to and vested in the supreme court, with full power and jurisdiction
to proceed therein, as if commenced in said supreme court, by reason of a
plea of title having been interposed in a justice's court in like cases.

§ 63- [5<3.j (AtuM 1849.) Docketing justices' judgments ai id effect thereof'.
A justice of the peace, on the demand of a party in whose favor he
shall have rendered a judgment, shall give a transcript thereof, which may
be filed and docketed in the office of the clerk of the county where the
judgment was rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by the
clerk shall be noted thereon and entered in the docket ; and, from that
time, the judgment shall be a judgment of the county court. A certified
transcript of such judgment may be filed and docketed in the clerk's office
of any other county, and with the like effect, in every respect, as in the
county where the judgment was rendered; except that it shall be a lien,
only from the time of filing and docketing the transcript. But no such
judgment for a less sum than twenty-five dollars, exclusive of costs, here
after docketed, shall be a lien upon, or enforced against real property.

§ 64. [57. J (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1860, 1867, 1869, 1870.) Rules in justices'
courts.
The following rules shall be observed in the courts of justices of the
peace:
1. The pleadings in these courts are,
1. The complaint by the plaintifff.
2. The answer by the defendant.
2. The pleadings may be oral, or in writing; if oral, the substance of
them shall be entered by the justice in his docket; if in writing, they shall
be filed by him, and a reference to them shall be made in the docket.
3. The complaint shall state, in a plain and direct manner, the facts con
stituting the cause of action.
4. The answer may contain a denial of the complaint, or of any pail
thereof, and also rlotice in a plain and direct manner of any facts cousti
tilting a defense or counterclaim.
5. Pleadings are not required to be in any particular form, but must be
such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is in
tended.
6. Either party may demur to a pleading of his adversary, or any pail
thereof, when it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him to understand it
or it contains no cause of action or defense, although it be taken as true.
7. If the court deem the objection well founded, it shall order the
pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend, the defective
pleading shall be disregarded. /
b. In case a defendant does not appear and answer, the plaintifff cannot
recover, without proving his case.
9. In an action or defense, founded upon an account or an instrument
for the payment of money ouly, it shall be sufficient for a party to delivci
the account or instrument to the court, and to state that there is due to him
thereon from the adverse party a specified sum, which he claims to recover
or set off.
10. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allegations in a
pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court shall be
satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby
11. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the trial, or during
the trial, or upon appeal, when by such amendment substantial justice will be
promoted. If the amendment be made after the joining of the issue, and if
be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjourn
ment is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such amendment,
an adjournment shall be granted. The court may. also, in its discretion,
require, as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to the ad
verse party.
12. Execution may be issued on a judgment, heretofore or hereafter
rendered in a justice's court, at any time within five years after the rendi
tion thereof, and shall be returnable sixty days from the date of the same.
13. If the judgment be docketed with the county clerk, the execution
shall be issued by him to the sheriff of the county, and have the same effect,
and be executed in the same manner as other executions and judgments of
the county court, except as provided in section sixty-three. • •
14. The court may, at the joining of issue, require either party, at the
request of the other, at that or some other specified time, to exhibit his
account on demand, or state the nature thereof as far forth as may be in his
power, and, in case of his default, preclude him from giving evidence of
such parts thereof as shall not have been so exhibited or stated.
15. The provisions of this act, respecting forms of actions, parties to
actions, the rules of evidence, the times of commencing actions, and the
service of process upon corporations, shall apply to these courts.
The defendant may, on the return of process, and before answering, make
an offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for an amount
to be stated in such offer, with costs. The plaintifff shall thereupon, and
before any other proceedings shall be had in the action, determine whether
he will accept or reject such offer. If he accept the offer, and gives notice
thereof in writing, the justice shall file the offer and the acceptance thereof,
and render judgment accordingly. If notice of acceptance be not given,
and if the plaintifff fail to obtain judgment for a greater amount, exclusive
of costs, than has been specified in the offer, he shall not recover costs, but
shall pay to the defendant his costs accruing subsequent to the offer.

§ 65. [58.] Its jurisdiction. >
This section has been entirely abrogated by subsequent laws. As to
the origin, powers, etc., of this court, see Laws of 1813, chap. 86, § 85, etc.;
1819, chap. 71 ; 1844, chap. 148; 1849, chap. 144, id. 377; 1852, chap.
389; 1853, chap. 529; id. 617; 1857, chap. 295; 1858, chap. 334; 1862,
chap. 484; 1865, chap. 436; 1866, chap. 701; 1867, chap. 784.

§ 66. [59.] (Am'd 1870.) Their jurisdiction. Stenographer.
The district courts of the city of New York shall have such Jurisdiction
as is provided by special statutes; and proceedings under article two, of
title ten, of chapter eight, of part three, of the Revised Statutes, may be
had before any justice of such courts, without regard to the district in
which the premises are situated ; and the affidavits used in such proceedings
may be taken before any officer authorized by law to take affidavits. And
the justices of the district courts of the city of New York are hereby
respectively authorized to appoint a stenographer in their several courts,
whose duty it shall be to take full stenographic notes of all proceedings in
trials had therein ; he shall hold his office during the pleasure of the jus
tice of the court, and shall receive a salary of two thousand dollars per
annum out of the city treasury. The clerks of the said district courts, shall
collect, in all cases in which a trial is had, the sum of one dollar, in addition
to the other fees authorized by law, and shall pay the s"ame into the city
treasury, in like manner with other fees collected by them.

§ 67. [60.] Their jurisdiction.
The justices' courts of cities shall have jurisdiction in the following
cases, and no other:
1. In actions similar to those in which justices of the peace have juris
diction, as provided by sections 53 and 54.
2. In an action upon the charter or by-laws of the corporations of their
respective cities, where the penalty or forfeiture shall not exceed one
hundred dollars.

§ 68. [61.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Sections 55 to G4, applicable to the courts
embraced in this title.
The provisions of sections 55 to 64, both inclusive, relating to forms
of actions, to pleadings, to the times of commencing actions, to the rules
of evidence, to tiling and docketing transcripts of judgments, to their effect
and the mode of enforcing them, and to proceedings, where title to real
property shall come in question, shall apply to the courts embraced in this
title; except that, after the discontinuance of the actions in the inferior
court upon an answer of title, the new action may be brought either in the
supreme court, or in any other court having jurisdiction thereof; and except,
also, that in the city and county of New York, a judgment for twenty-five
dollars or over, exclusive of costs, the transcript whereof is docketed in
the office of the clerk of that county, shall have the same effect as a lieu,
and be enforced in the same manner as, and be deemed, a judgment of the
court of common pleas for the city and county of New York.

§69. [*>2.] (Am'dl849.) Distinction between actions at law and suits
in equity, and forms of such suits and actions abolished.
The distinction between actions ut law and suits in equity, and the
forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore existing, are abolished; and
there shall be in this State, hereafter, but one form of action for the enforce
ment or protection of private rights and the redress of private wrongs,
which shall be denominated a civil action.

§ 70. [63. J Parties to an action, how designated.
In such action, the party complaining shall be known as the plaintifff, and
the adverse party as the defendant.
§ 71. J Actions on judgments, when and how to be brought.
No action shall be brought upon a judgment rendered in any court of
this State, except a court of a justice of the peace, between the same par
ties, without leave of the court, for good cause shown, on notice to the
adverse party; and no action on a judgment rendered by a justice of the
peace, shall be brought in the same county within live years after its rendi
tion, except in case of his death, resignation, incapacity to act, or removal
from the county, or that the process was not personally served on the
defendant, or on all the defendants, or in case of the death of some of the
parties, or where the docket or record of such judgment is, or shall have
been lost or destroyed.

§ 72. ['55. J Feigned issues abolished, and order for trial substituted.
Feigned issues are abolished; and, instead thereof, in the cases where
the power now exists to order a feigned issue, or when a question of fact
not put in issue by the pleadings is to be tried by a jury, an order for the
trial may be made, stilting distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be
tried; and such order shall be the only authority necessary for a trial.

§ 73. [66-] (Am'd 1849.) Repeal of existing limitations.
The provisions contained in the chapter of the Revised Statutes, entitled
"Of actions and the times of commencing them," are repealed, and the
provisions of this title are substituted in their stead. This title shall not
extend to actions already commenced, or to cases where the ri<jrht of action
has already accrued ; but t lie statutes now in force shall be applicable to
such cases, according to the subject of the action, and without regard to the
form.

§ 74. [67.] (A'md 1849, 1851.) Time of commencing civil actions.
Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods prescribed in
this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued, except where, in
special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by statute, and in the cases
mentioned in ^ 73.
But the objection that the action was not commenced within the time
limited, can only be taken by answer.

§ 75. When the people will not sue.
The people of this State will not sue any person for, or in respect to
any real property, or the issues or profits thereof, by reason of the right or
title of the people to the same, unless,
1. Such right or title shall have accrued within forty years before any
action or other proceeding for the same shall be commenced; or unless,
2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall have received the
rents and profits of such real property, or of some part thereof, within the
space of forty years.

§ 76. When action cannot be brought by grantee from the State.
No action shall be brought for, or in respect to, real property, by any
person claiming by virtue of letter* patent, or grants from the people of
this State, unless the same might have been commenced by the people,
as herein specified, in case such patent or grant had not been issued or
made.
§ 77. When actions by the people or their grantees, to be brought within
twenty years.
When letters patent or grants of real property shall have been issued
or made by the people of this State, and the same shall be declared void by
the determination of a competent court, rendered upon an allegation of a
fraudulent suggestion, or concealment, or forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance
of a material fact, or wrongful detaining, or defective title, in such case, an
action for the recovery of the premises so conveyed, may be brought either
by the people of this State, or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of
the same premises, his heirs or assigns, within twenty years after such deter
mination was made ; but not after that period.
§ 78. Seisin within twenty years, when necessary in actions for real
property.
No action for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery of the pos- N
session thereof, shall be maintained, unless it appear that the plaintifff, his
ancestor, predecessor, or grantor, was seized or possessed of the premises
in question within twenty years before the commencement of such action.
§ 79. Seisin within twenty years, when necessary in action or defense
founded on title to or rents of real property.
No cause of action or defense to an action founded upon the title to real
property, or to rents or services out of the same, shall be effectual, unless
it appear that the person prosecuting the action, or making the defense, or
under whose title the action is prosecuted or the defense is made, or the
ancestor, predecessor, or grantor of such person, was seized or possessed of
the premises in question, within twenty years before the committing of the
act in respect to which such action is prosecuted or defense made.

§ 80. Action must be commenced within one year after entry, or within
twenty years after right of entry.
No entry upon real estate shall be deemed sufficient, or valid as a claim,
unless an action be commenced thereupon within one year after the making
of such entry, and within twenty years from the time when the right to
make such entry descended or accrued.

§ 81. Possession when presumed; Occupation deemed under legal title,
unless adverse.
In every action for the recovery of real property, or the possession
thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the premises shall be pre
sumed to have been possessed thereof within the time required by law; and
the occupation of such premises by any other person, shall be deemed to
have been under, and in subordination to, the legal title, unless it appear
that such premises have been held and possessed adversely to such legal
title, for twenty years before the commencement of such action.

§ 82. Occupation under written instrument, or judgment; when deemed
adverse.
Whenever it shall appear that the occupant, or those under whom he
claims, entered into the possession of premises under claim of title, exclusive
of any other right, founding such claim upon a written instrument, as being
a conveyance of the premises in question, or upon the decree or judgment
of a competent court ; and that there has been a continued occupation and
possession of the premises included in such instrument, decree or judg
ment, or of some part of such premises, under such claim, for twenty years,
the premises so included shall be deemed to have been held adversely;
except that where the premises so included consist .of a tract divided into
lots, the possession of one lot shall not be deemed a possession of any other
lot of the same tract.
§ 83. What constitutes adverse possession, under written instrument or
judgment.
For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by any person
claiming a title founded upon a written instrument, or a judgment or decree,
land shall be deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the following
cases:
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved;
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure;
3. Where, though not enclosed, it has been used for* the supply of fuel
or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry, or the ordinary use
of the occupant;
4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved, the
portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared or not en
closed, according to the usual course and custom of the adjoining country,
shall be deemed to have been occupied for the same length of time as the
part improved and cultivated.

§ 84. Premises actually occupied, under claim of title, deemed to be
Jield adversely.
Where it shall appear that there has been an actual continued occupation
of premises under a claim of title, exclusive of any other right, but not
founded upon a written instrument, or a judgment or decree, the premises
so actually occupied, and no other, shall be deemed to have been held
adversely.
§ 85. What constitutes adverse -possession under claim not icritten.
For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by a person
claiming title not founded upon a written instrument, or a judgment or decree,
land shall be deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the following
cases only:
1. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure;
2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.

§ 86. Relation of landlord and tenant as affecting adverse possession.
Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant shall have existed between
any persons, the possession of the tenant shall be deemed the possession
of the landlord, until the expiration of twenty years from the termination
of the tenancy; or, where there has been no written lease, until the expira
tion of twenty years from the time of the last payment of rent; notwithstand
ing that such tenant may have acquired another title, or may have claimed
to hold adversely to his landlord. But such presumptions shall not be
made after the periods herein limited.

§ 88. (Am'd 1870.) Certain disabilities excluded from time to com
mence actions.
If a person entitled to commence an action for the recovery of real
property, or to make an entry or defense founded on the title to real pro
perty, or to rents or services out of the same, be at the time such title shall
first descend or accrue, either:
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction of
a criminal offense, for a term less than for life. N
The time during which such disability shall continue, shall not be
deemed any portion of the time in this chapter limited for the commence
ment of such action, or the making of such entry or defense; but such
action may be commenced, or entry or defense made, after the period of
twenty years, and within ten years after the disability shall cease, or after
the death of the person entitled who shall die under such disability; but
such action shall not be commenced, or entry or defense made, after that
period.

§ 89. [69.] (Am'd 1849.) Periods of limitation prescribed.
The periods prescribed in section seventy-four for the commencement of
actions other than for the recovery of real property shall be as follows 

§ 90. [70.] (Am*dl849.) Within twenty years.
Within twenty years :
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the United
States, or of any State or Territory within the United States ;
2. An action upon a sealed instrument

§ 91. [71.] (Am'd 1849.) Within six years.
Within six years : .
ner prescribed by statute. Thompson v. Jenks,
2 Abb. N. S. 229.
In the matter of an action on a decree of a
surrogate, see Clayton v. Wardell, 1 Bradf.
Sur. R. 4.
It will rebut the presumption of the pay
ment of a judgment obtained before the re
vised statutes took effect, to show a sheriff's
return of an execution partly unsatisfied.
Henderson v. Cairns, 14 Barb. 15; see also
Waddell's Administrator v. FAmendorf's Ad
ministrator, 10 N. Y. (C Seld.), 170.
1. An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability, express or implied ;
excepting those mentioned in section njuety ;
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a penalty- or
forfeiture ;
3. An action for trespass upon real property ;
4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring any "goods or chattels,
including actions for the specific recovery of personal property ;
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to the
person or rights of auother, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter
enumerated ;
6. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases which heretofore
were solely cognizable by the court of chancery ; the cause of action in
such cases not to be deemed to have accrued, until the discovery by the
aggrieved party of the facts constituting the fraud.

§ 92. [72.] (Am'd 1849.) Within three years.
Within three years :
1. An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable, upon a liability
incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and in virtue of his
office, or by the omission of an official duty; including the non-payment of
money collected upou an execution. But this section shall not apply to an
action for an escape ;
2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where the action
is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and the people of this State,
except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation.

§ 93. [73.] Within two years.
Within two years :
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false imprisonment ;
2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the people of
this State.

§ 94. [74.] Within one year.
Within one year:
1. An action against a sheriff or other officer, for the escape of a prisoner
arrested or imprisoned on civil process.

§ 95. [75.] (Am'd 1849.) When cause of action accrued in an action upon
a current account.
In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual, open and
current account, where there have been reciprocal demands between the par
ties, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued from the time of
the last item proved in the account on either side.

§ 96. [76.] Actions for penalties, etc., by any person who will sue;
when to be brought. '
An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, given in whole or
in part to any person who will prosecute for the same, must be commenced
within one year after the commission of the offense; and if the action be
not commenced within the year by a private party, it may be commenced
within two years thereafter in behalf of the people of this State, by the
attorney-general, or the district-attorney of the county where the offense
was committed.
§ 97. [77.] Actions for relief not before provided for.
Au action for relief, not hereinbefore provided for, must be commenced
within ten years after the cause of action shall have accrued.

§ 98. [78.J (Am'd 1849.) Actions by the people, subject to the same
limitation.
The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to actions brought
in the name of the people of this State, or for their benefit, in the same
manner as to actions by private oarties.

§ 99. [79.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1867.) When action deemed to have been
commenced.
An action is commenced as to each defendant when the summons is
served on him, or on a co-defendant, who is a joint contractor, or otherwise
united in interest with him.
An attempt to commence an action is deemed equivalent to the com
mencement thereof within the meaning of this title, when the summons is
delivered, with the intent thut it shall bo actually served, to the sheriff or
other officer of the county in which the defendants or one of them usually
or last resided; or, if a corporation be defendant, to the sheriff or other
officer of the county in which such corporation was established by law, or
where its general business was transacted, or where it kept an office for the
transaction of business.

§ 100. [80.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1867.) Exception, when the defendant is
out of the State.
If, when the cause of action shall accrue against any person, he shall be
out o# the State, such action may be commenced within the terms herein
respectively limited, after the return of such person into this State; and
if, after such cause of action shall have accrued, such person shall depart
from and reside out of this State, or remain continuously absent therefrom
for the space of one year or more, the time of his absence shall not be
deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the commencement of
such action.

§ 101. [81.] Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1870.) Exceptions as to persons under
disabilities.
If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in the last chapter,
except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other officer, for an
escape, be, at the time the cause of action accrued, either:
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the sentence
of a criminal court, for a term less than his natural life;
The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the com
mencement of the action, except that the period within which the* action
must be brought, cannot be extended more than five years by any such dis
ability, except infancy, nor can it be so extended in any case longer, thau
one year after the disability ceases.

§ 102. [82.] (Am'd 1849.) Provision where person entitled dies before
the limitation expires.
If a person entitled to bring an action die before the expiration of the
time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive,
an action may be commenced by fate representatives, after the expiration of
that time, and within one year from his death. If a person against whom
an action may be brought die before the expiration of the time limited for
the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may
be commenced against his executors or administrator, after the expiration
of that time, and within one year after the issuing of letters testamentary,
or of administration.

§ 103. [83.] In suits by aliens, time of roar to be deducted.
When a person shall be an alien subject or citizen of a country at war
with the United States, the time of the continuance of the war shall not be
a part of the period limited for the commencement of the action.

§ 104. [84.] (Am'd 1863.) Provision where judgment has been reversed.
If an action shall be commenced within the time prescribed therefore,
and a judgment therein be reversed on appeal, the plaintifff, or if he die
and the cause of action survive, his heirs or representatives, may commence
a new action, within one year after the reversal.

§ 105. [85.] (Am'd 1849.) Time of stay of action by injunction, o?
statutory prohibition to be deducted.
When the commencement of an action shall be stayed by injunction or
statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the injunction or pro
hibition, shall not be part of the time limited for the commencement of the
action.

§ 106. [86-] Disability must exist when right of action accrued.
No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless it existed when his
right of action accrued. •
§ 107. [87.] (Am'd 1849.) Where two or more disabilities, limitation
does not attach till all removed.
When two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the time the right of
action accrues, the limitation shall not attach until they all be removed.
See § 101, ante.
§ 108. [88.] This title not applicable to bills, etc., of corporations, or
(o bank notes.
This title shall not affect actions . to enforce the payment of bills, notes
or other evidences of debt issued by moneyed corporations, or issued or
put in circulation as money.
$ 109. [89.] (Am'd 1849.) iVbr to actions against directors or stock
holders of moneyed corporations or banking associations. Limitations in
such cases prescribed.
This title shall not affect actions against directors or stockholders of
moneyed corporations, or banking associations, to recover a penalty or for
feiture imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law; but such actions
must be brought within six years after the discovery, by the iiggrieved party,
of the facts upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability
was created.
§ 110. [90.] (Am'd 1849.) Acknowledgment or new promise must be in
■writing. '
No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient evidence of a new or
continuing contract, whereby to take the case out of the operation of this
title, unless the same be contained in some writing signed by the party to
be charged thereby; but this section shall not alter the effect of any pay
ment of principal or interest.

§ 111. [91.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862, 1866.) Action to be in the name of the
real parly in interest.
Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in iuteiest,
except as otherwise provided in section one hundred and thirteen; but this
section shall not be deemed to authorize the assignment of a thing in action
not arising out of contract. But an action may be maintained by a grantee
of land in the name of a grantor, or his or her heirs or legal representatives,
when the grant or grants are void by reason of the actual possession of a
person claiming under a title adverse to that of the grantor at the time of
the delivery of the grant, and the plaintifff shall be allowed to prove the
facts to bring the case within this provision.


§ 112. (Am'd 1849.) Assignment of a thing in action not to pre
judice a defense.
In the ease of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by the assignee
shall be without prejudice to any set-oil' or other defense existing at the
time of or before notice of the assignment; but this section shall not apply
to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, transferred in good
faith, and upon good consideration, before due.

§ 113. [93.] (Am'd 1851.) Executor or trustee may me without the per
sons beneficially interested.
An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person
expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining with him the person
for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A trustee of au express trust,
within the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include a person
with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of another.

§ 114. (Am'd 1851, 1857.) When married woman is party, her hus
band to be joined, except, etc.
"When a married woman is it party, her husband must he joined with her,
except that:
1. When the action concerns her separate property, she may sue alone ;
2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue
or be sued alone;
And in no case need she prosecute or defend by a guardian or next
friend.

§ 116. [9H.J (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1862, 1863, 1865.) Guardian, how ajh
jpointed.
The guardian shall be appointed as follows:
1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if he
be of the age of fourteen years ; or, if under that age, upon the application
of his general or testamentary guardian, if he hits any, or of a relative or
friend of the infant ; if made by a relative or friend of the infant, notice
thereof must first be given to such guardian, if he has one ; if he has none,
then to the person with whom such infant resides.
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within twenty days after
service of the summons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so
to apply, then upon, the application of any other party to the action, or of
a relative or friend of the infant, after notice of such application being first
given to the general or testamentary guardian of such infant, if he has one
within this State; if he has none, then to the infant himself if over fourteen
years of age, and within the State; or, if under that age, and within the
State, to the person with whom such infant resides. And in actions for
the partition of real property, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage or other
instrument, when an infant defendant resides out of this State, or is tem
porarily absent therefrom, the plaintifff may apply to the court in which the
action is pending, at any special term thereof, and will bo entitled to an
order designating some suitable person to be the guardian for the infant
defendant, for the purposes of the action, unless the infant defendant, or
some one in his behalf, within a number of days after the service of a copy
of the order, which number of days shall be in the said order specified, shall
procure to be appointed a guardian for the said infant, and the court shall
give special directions in the order for the manner of the sendee thereof,
which may be upon the infant.
And in case an infant defendant having an interest in the event of the
action shall reside in any State with which there shall not be a regular
communication by mail, on such fact satisfactorily appearing to the court,
the court may appoint a guardian ad litem for such absent infant party, for
the purpose of protecting the right of such infant in said action; and, on
«uch guardian ad litem, process, pleadings and notices in the action may be
served in the like manner as upon a party residing in this State.

§ 117. [97.] Who may be joined as plaintifffs.
All persons having an interest in the subject of the action, and in obtain
ing the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffis, except as otherwise
provided hi this title.

§ 118. [98.] (Am'd 1849, 1867.) Who may be joined as defendants.
Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims an interest in
the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a
complete determination or settlement of the questions involved therein ;
and in an action to recover the possession of real estate, the landlord and
tenant thereof may he joined as defendants ; and any person claiming title
or a right of possession to real estate may he made parties plaintifff or
defendant, as the case may require, to any such action.

§ 119. [99-] (Am'd 1849.) Parties united in interest, when to be joined;
when one or more may sue or defend for the whole.
Of the parties to the action, those who are uniied in interest must be
joined as plaintifffs or defendants ; but if the consent of any one who
should have been joined as plaintifff, cannot be obtained, he may be made a
defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint, and when the
question is one of a common or general interest of many persons ; or when
the parties are very numerous and it may be impracticable to bring them
nil before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the
whole.

§ 120. [100.] Plaintiff may sue in one action the different parties to
commercial paper.
Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, includ
ing the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes may, all or any
of them, be included in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

§ 121. [101.] (Am*d 1849, 1857, 1862, 1869, 1870.) Action, when not to
abate by death, marriage or other disability, etc. ; proceedings in such case.
No action shall abate by the death, marriage, or other disability of a
party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action sur
vive or continue. In case of death, marriage, or other disability of a party,
the court on motion, at any time within one year thereafter, or afterwards
on a supplemental complaint, may allow the action to be continued by or
against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other
transfer of interest, the action shall be continued in the name of the original
party, or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be
substituted in the action.
After a verdict shall be rendered in any action for a wrong, such action
shall not abate by the death of any party, but the case shall proceed there
At any time after the death, marriage, or other disability of the party
plaintifff, the court in which an action is pending, upon notice to such per
sons as it may direct, and upon application of any person aggrieved, may,
in its discretion, order that the action be deemed abated unless the same be
continued by the proper parties, within a time to be fixed by the court, not
less than six months nor exceeding one year from the granting of the order.
And where judgment has heretofore or shall hereafter be recovered for the
possession of real property, and the party recovering said judgment shall
have died subsequent to the recovery thereof, his successor in interest in
said land, whether by grant, devise or inheritance, may revive said judg
ment and enforce the same by execution, on motion, within one year after
said death, or afterwards on supplemental complaint.
Where an intestate, not being an inhabitant of the State, shall die out of
this State, not leaving assets therein, and there shall be pending in the
supreme court, or in the court of appeals, an appeal brought by such intes
tate from a judgment against him, the court iu which said appeal is pending
may order the judgment appealed from affirmed, with costs, unless the
attorney for the intestate on said appeal procure said action to be revived,
within six months after notice to perfect such appeal, by the substitution
of a representative of said intestate in said action.

§ 122. [102.J (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Court when to decide controversy, or to
order other parties to be brought in.
The court may determine any controversy between the parties before it,
when it can(be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving
their rights, but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot
be had without the presence of other parties, the court must cause them to
be brought in. And when, in an action for the recovery of real or personal
property, a person, not a party to the action, but having an interest in the
subject thereof, makes application to the court to be made a party, it may
order him to be brought in by the proper amendment.
A defeudaut, against whom an action is pending upon a contract, or for
specific, real or personal property, may, at any time before answer, upon
affidavit that a person not a party to the action, and without collusion with
him, makes against him a demand for the same debt or property, upon due
notice to such person and the adverse party, apply to the court for an order
to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from liability to
either party on his depositing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering
the property, or its value, to such person as the court may direct; and the
court may, in its discretion, make the order.

§ 123. [103.] (Am'd 1849.) Certain actions to be tried where the sub
ject, or some part thereof, is situated.
Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county in which
the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated, subject to the
power of the court to change the place of trial, in the cases provided by
statute :
' 1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein,
or for the determination, in any form, of such right or interest, and for inju
ries to real property ;
2. For the partition of real property ;
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property ;
4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any cause.

§ 124. [104.] (Aui'd 1849.) Other actions, where the cause, or some part
thereof, arose.
Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county where the
cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the like power of the court, to
change the place of trial in the cases provided by statute :
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute; ex
cept that, when it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake, iver or
other stream of water situated in two or more counties, the action may be
brought in any county bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and opposite
to the place where the offense was committed;
2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to execute his
duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a person who,
by his command or in his aid, shall do any thing touching the duties of such
officer.

§125. [105.] Other actions, according to the residence of the parties.
In all other cases, I he action shall be tried in the county in which the
parties, or any of them, shall reside at the commencement of the action;
or, if none of the parties shall reside in the State, the same may be tried in
any county which the plaintifff shall designate in his complaint; subject,
however, to the power of the court to change the place of trial, in the
citscs provided by statute.

§ 126. [105.] (Am'd 1851.) Action maybe tried in any county, unless
defendant demand trial in proper county.
If the comity designated for that purpose in the complaint, be not the
proper count}', the action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the
defendant, before the time for answering expire, demand, in writing, that
the trial be had in the proper county, and the place of. trial be. thereupon
changed by consent of parties, or by order of the court, as is provided in
this section.
The court may change the place of trial in the following cases :
1. When the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is not
the proper county ;
2. When there is reason to believe that tin impartial trial cannot be had
therein ;
3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be
promoted by the change.
When the place of trial is changed, all other proceeedings shall be had
in the county to which the place of trial is changed, unless otherwise pro
vided by the consent of the parties, in writing duly filed, or order of the
court, and the papers shall be filed or transferred accordingly.

§ 127. [106. J Actions, hoio commenced.
Civil actions in the courts ol" record of this State shall be commenced
iy the service of a summons.

§ 107.] (Am'dl870.) Summons, requisites of.
The summons snail be subscribed by an attorney, and directed to the
defendant, and shall require him to answer the complaint, and serve a copy
of his answer on the person whose name is subscribed to the summons, at
a place within the State, to be therein specified, in which there is a postoffice,
within twenty days after the service of the summons, exclusive of
the day of service.

§149. [108.] (Am'd 1849.) Notice to be inset-ted, in certain actions.
The plaintifff shall also insert in the summons a notice, in substance as
follows:
1. In an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money only, that
he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to
answer the complaint, within twenty days after the service of summons;
2. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to answer the com
plaint, within twenty days after service of the summons, the plaintifff will
apply to the court for the relief demanded in the complaint.

§ 130. [109.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Complaint need not be served with sum
mons; in such case what to be stated in swmnons, and proceedings thereon.
A copy of the complaint need not be served with the summons. In
such case, the summons must state where the complaint is or will be filed ;
and if the defendant within twenty days thereafter, causes notice of appear
ance to he given, and in person, or by attorney, demands in writing a copy
of the complaint, specifying a place within the State where it may be served,
a copy thereof must, within twenty days thereafter, he served accordingly
and, after such service, the defendant has twenty days to answer ; but only
one copy need be served on the same attorney.

§ 1301. [ 1 1U.J (Am'd 1851.) Defendant unreasonably defending, when to
j>ay costs.
In (he case of a defendant against whom no personal claim is made, the
plaintifff may deliver to such defendant, with (he summons, a notice subscribed
by the plaintifff or his attorney, setting forth the general object of the action,
a brief description of the property affected by it, if it affects specific real or
persona] property, and that no personal claim is made against such defendant ;
in which case no copy of the complaint need be served on such defendant,
unless, within the time for answering, he shall, in writing, demand the same.
If a defendant, on whom such notice is served, unreasonably defend the
action, he shall pay costs to the plaintifff.

§ 132. [HI.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1857, 1858, 1862, 1866.) 'Notice of pendency,
of action affecting title to real property.
In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintifff, at the time
of riling the complaint, or at any time afterwards, or whenever a warrant of
attachment, under chapter four of title seven, part second of this Code, shall
be issued, or at any time afterwards, the plaintifff or a defendant, when he
sets up an affirmative cause of action in his answer, and demands substantive
relief, at the time of filing his answer, or at any time afterwards, if the same
be intended to affect real estate, may file with the clerk of each county in
which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, con
taining the names of the parties, the object of the action, and the descrip
tion of the property in that county affected thereby ; and if the action be
for the foreclosure of a mortgage, such notice must be filed twenty days
before judgment, and must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties
thereto, and the time and place of recording the same. From the time of
tiling, only, shall the pendency of the action be constructive notice to a
purchaser or encumbrancer of the property affected thereby ; and every
person, whose conveyance or encumbrance is subsequently executed or subse
quently recorded, shall be deemed a subsequent purchaser or encumbrancer,
and shall be bound by all proceedings taken after the filing of such notice
to the same extent as if he were made a party to the action. For the pur
poses of this section, an action shall be deemed to be pending from the time
of tiling such notice ; provided, however, that such notice shall be of no
avail unless it shall be followed by the first publication of the summons on
an order therefore, or by the personal service thereof on a defendant within
sixty days after such filing. And the court in which the said action was
commenced may, in its discretion, at any time after the action shall be
settled, discontinued or abated, as is provided in section number 121, on
application of any person aggrieved, and on good.cause shown, and on such
notice as shall be directed or approved by the court, order the notice
authorized by this section to he canceled of record by the clerk of any
county in whose office the same may have been filed or recorded ; and such
cancellation shall be made by an indorsement to that effect on the margin
of the record, which shall refer to the order, and for which the clerk shall
be entitled to a fee of twenty-five cents

§ 133. [H2.J Summons, by whom served.
The summons may be served by the sheriff of the county where the
defendant may be found, or by any other person not a party to the action.
The service shall be made, and the summons returned, with proof of the
service, to the person whose name is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable
diligence. The person subscribing the summons may, at his option, by an
indorsement on the summons, fix a time for the service thereof, and the
service shall then be made accordingly.

§134:. [H3.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1859.) Summons, how served and re
turned.
The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof, its follows :
1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president, or other head
of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer, a director or managing agent
thereof; but such service can be made in respect to a foreign corporation
only, when it has property within this state, or the cause of action arose
therein, or where such service shall be made within this state, personally
upon the president, treasurer, or secretary thereof.
2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian, or if there be none
within the State, then to any person having the care and control of such
minor, or with whom he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be
employed.
3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or
incapable of conducting bis own affairs in consequence of babitual drunken
ness, and for vvbom a committee has been appointed, to sucb committee, and
to the defendant personally.
4. In all other cases to the defendant personally.

§135. [114.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1858, 1860.) Publication when defendant
cannot be found.
Where the person on whom the service of the summons is to be made
cannot, after due diligence, be found within the State, and that fact appears
by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court or a judge thereof, or of the
county judge of the county where the trial is to be had, and it in like man
ner appears that a cause of action exists against the defendant, in respect to
whom the service is to he made, or that he is a proper party to an action
relating to real property in this State, such court or judge may grant an
order that the service be made by the publication of a summons in either
of the following cases :
1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, has property within
the State, or the cause of action arose therein ;
2. Where the defendant, being a resident of this State, has departed
therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a
summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent ;
3. Where he is not a resident of this State, but has property therein,
and the court has jurisdiction of the subject of the action ;
4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal property in this
State, and the defendant has or claims a lieu or interest, actual or contin
gent, therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or partly in excluding
the defendant from any interest or lien therein ;
5. Where the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed by law.
The order must direct the publication to be made in two newspapers to
be designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be served, and
for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, not less than once a
week for six weeks. In case of publication, the court or judge must also
direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in
the post-office, directed to the person to be served, at his place of residence,
unless it appear that such residence is neither known to the party making
the application, nor can, with reasonable diligence, be ascertained by him.
When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons
and complaint out of the State is equivalent to publication and deposit in
the post-office.
The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his representa
tives, on application and sufficient cause shown at any time before judgment,
must be allowed to defend the action ; and, except in an action for divorce,
t he defendant, against whom publication is ordered, or his representatives,
may, in like manner, upon good cause shown, be allowed to defend after
judgment, or at any time within one year after notice thereof, and within
seven years after its rendition, on such terms as may be just ; and if the
defense be successful, and the judgment, or any part thereof, have been
collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be com
pelled as the court directs ; but the title to property sold under such
judgment to a purchaser in good faith shall not be thereby affected. And
in all cases where publication is made, the gomplaint must be first filed,
and the summons, as published, must state the time and place of such
filing.
In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate, already insti
tuted, or hereafter to be instituted, if any party or parties, having any
interest in, or lien upon, such mortgaged premises, are unknown to the
plaintifff, and the residence of such party or parties cannot, with reasonable
diligence, be ascertained by him, and such fact shall be made to appear, by
•Jitfidavit, to the court, or to a justice thereof, or to the county judge of the
county where the trial is to he had, such court, justice, or county judge
may grant an order that the summons he served on such unknown party or
parties hy puhlishing the same for six weeks, once in each week succes
sively, in the State paper and in a newspaper printed in the county where
the premises are situated, which publication shall be equivalent to a personal
service on such unknown party or parties.

§ 136. [115.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1800.) Proceedings where there are sev
eral defendants, and part only served.
Where the action is against two or more defendants, and the summons is
served on one or more of them, but not on all of them, the plaintifff may
proceed as follows :
1. If the action he against defendants jointly* indebted upon contract,
he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the court otherwise
direct ; and if he recover judgment it may be entered against all the
defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced
against the joint property of all and the separate property of the defend
ants served, and, if they are subject to arrest, against the persons of the.
defendants served ; or
2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may proceed
against the defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only
defendants ;
3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be taken
against any or either of them severally, when the plaintifff would be entitled
to judgment against such defendant or defendants if the action had been
against them or any of them alone ;
4. If the name of one or more partners shall, for any cause, have been
omitted in any action in which judgment shall have passed against the
defendants named in the summons, and such omission shall not have been
pleaded in such action, the plaintifff, in case the judgment therein shall
remain unsatisfied, may by action recover of such partner separately, upon
proving his joint liability, notwithstanding he may not have been named
in the original action ; but the plaintifff shall have satisfaction of only one
judgment rendered for the same cause of action

§ 137. [1 16.J Wlien service deemed made in case of publication.
In the cases mentioned in section one hundred and thirty-five, the ser
vice of the summons shall be deemed complete, at the expiration of the
time prescribed by the order for publication

§ 138. [117.] (Am'd 1851.) Service of summons ; how proved.
Proof of the service of the summons, and of the complaint or notice,
if any, accompanying the same, must be as follows :
1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof ; or,
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof ; or,
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or
principal clerk, showing the same ; and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy
of the summons in the post-office, as required by law, if the same shall
have been deposited ; or,
4. The written admission of the defendant.
In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate, affidavit
or admission must state the time and place of the service.

§ 139. (Am'd 1851.) When jurisdiction of action acquired.
From the time of the service of the summons in a civil action, or the allow
ance of a provisional remedy, the court is deemed to have acquired juris
diction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary
appearance of a defendant is equivalent to personal service of the summons
upon him.

§ 140. [H8.] (Am'd 1849, 1852.) Forms of pleading inconsistent with
this act abolished.
All the forms of pleading heretofore existing, are abolished ; and here
after the forms of pleading in civil actions, in courts of record, and the
rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined, are
those prescribed by this act.

§ 141. [119.] First pleading to be complaint.
The first pleading on the part of tho plaintifff is the complaint.
§ 142. [120.] (Am'd 1851.) Complaint ; what to contain.
The complaint shall contain :
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in which the
action is brought, the name of the county in which the plaintifff desires the
trial to be had, and the names of the parties to the action, plaintifff and
defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a cause of
action, without unnecessary repetition.
3. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff supposes himself
entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall
be stated.

§ 143. [121.] Defendant to demur or answer.
The only pleading on the part of the defendant, is either a demurrer or
an answer. It must be served within twenty days after the service of the
copy of the complaint.

§ 144. [122.] (Am'd 1849.) \V7ien the defendant may demur.
The defendant may demur to the complaint, when it shall appear upoi.
the face thereof, either :
1. That the court hits no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, othe subject of the action ; or,
2. That the plaintifff h:is not legal capacity to sue ; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties fo»
the same cause ; or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united ; or,
0. That the complaint does not state fiicts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.

§ 145. [123. J (Am'd 1849.) Demurrer must specify grounds of objection
to complaint.
Tbe demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection to the
complaint. Unless it do so, it may be disregarded. It may be taken to
the whole complaint, or to any of the alleged causes of action stated
1 herein.

§ 146. [l^o.J (Am'd 1«49.) How to proceed if complaint be amended.
If the complaint he amended, it copy thereof must he served on the
defendant, who must answer it within twenty days, or the plaintifff upon
tiling with the clerk on [due] proof of the service, and of the defendant's
omission, may proceed to obtain judgment, as provided by section 24(i ;
but where an application to the court for judgment is necessary, eight
days' notice thereof must be given to the defendant.

§ 147. [126.] Objection not appearing on complaint may be taken by
answer.
When any of the matters enumerated in section 144 do not appear upon
the face of the complaint. *he objection may be taken by answer.

§ 148. [127.J (Am'd 1849.) Objection; when deemed waived.
If no such objection he taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defend
ant shall he deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the objection
to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the complaint does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

§ 149. [128.J (Am'd, 1849, 1851, 1852.) Answer ; what to contain.
The answer of the defendant must contain :
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the com
plaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information
thereof sufficient to form a belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting ' a defense or counter
claim, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition.

§ 150. [129.] (Am'd 1849, 1852.) May set forth as many grounds of
defense as exist.
The counterclaim mentioned in the last section, must be one existing in
favor of a defendant and against a plaintifff, between whom a several judg
ment might be had in the action, and arising out of one of the following
causes of action :
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set forth
in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintifff's claim, or connected
with the subject of the action ;
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action arising also
on contract, and existing at the commencement of the action.
The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses and counter
claims as ho may have, whether they be such as have been heretofore
denominated legal or equitable, or both. They must each be separately
stated, and refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer,
in such manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished.

§ 151. Demurrer as to some causes of action, and answer as to others.
The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes of action
stated in the complaint, and answer the residue.

§ 152. (Am'd 1851.) Sham defenses to be stricken out.
Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses may be stricken out on mo
tion, and upon such terms as the court may in their discretion impose.

§ 153. [131.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1855, 1857, 1860.) Reply; when to be
pul in, and what to contain.
When the answer contains new matter, constituting a counterclaim, the
plaintifff may, within twenty days, reply to such new matter, denying
generally or specifically each allegation controverted by him, or any know
ledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief ; and he may allege,
in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, any new matter not
inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to such new matter
in the answer, and the plaintifff may, in all cases, demur to an answer con
taining new matter, where upon its face it does not constitute a counter
claim or defense ; and the plaintifff may demur to one or more of such
defenses or counterclaims, and reply to the residue of the counterclaims.
And in other cases, when an answer contains new matter, constituting a
defense by way of avoidance, the court may, in its discretion, on the
defendant's motion, require a reply to such new matter ; and in that case,
the reply shall be subject to the same rules as a reply to a counterclaim.

§ 154. (Am'd 1863.) Wlien defendant may move for judgment upon an
answer.
If the answer contains a statement of new matter constituting a counter
claim, and the plaintifff fail to reply or demur thereto within the time pre
scribed by law, the defendant may move, on a notice of not less than ten
days, for such judgment as ho is entitled to upon such statement, and if the
case require it, a writ of inquiry of damages may be issued.


§ 155. Demurrer to reply.
If a reply of the plaintifff' to any defense set up by the answer of the
defendant be insufficient, the defendant may demur thereto, and shall state
the grounds thereof.

§ 156- [33.J (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Verification of pleadings.
Every pleading in a court of record must be subscribed by the party,
or his attorney ; and, when any pleading is verified, every subsequent
pleading, except a demurrer, must be verified also.

§ 157. [133.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Verification, mode of.
The verification must be to the effect that the same is true to the knowl
edge of the person making it, except as to those matters stated on informa
tion and belief, and as to those matters he believes it to be true, and must
be by the affidavit of the party ; or, if there be several parties united in
interest, and pleading together, by one at least of such parties acquainted
with the facts, if such party be within the county where the attorney resides,
and capable of making the affidavit. The affidavit may also be made by the
agent or attorney, if the action or defense be founded upon a written instru
ment for the payment of money only, and such instrument be in the posses
sion of the agent or attorney, or if all the material allegations of the plead
ing be within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the
pleading is verified by any other person than the party, he shall set forth
in the affidavit his knowledge, or the grounds of his belief, on the subject,
and the reasons why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is a
party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof; and when the
State, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a party, the verification may be
made by any person acquainted with the facts. The verification may
be omitted when an admission of the truth of the allegation might subject
the party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used in a
criminal prosecution against the party as proof of a fact admitted or alleged
in such pleading.

§ 158. [135.] (Am'd, 1849, 1851 ) Mow to state an account in pleading.
It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the items
of an account therein alleged ; but he shall deliver to the adverse party,
within ten days after a demand thereof in writing, a copy of the account,
which, if the pleading is verified, must be verified by his own oath, or that
of his agent or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of such agent
or attorney, to the ellect that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from
giving evidence thereof. The court, or a judge thereof, or a county judge,
may order a further account when the one delivered is defective, and the
court may in all cases order a bill of particulars of the claim of either party
to be furnished.

§ 159. [136.] Pleadings to be liberally construed.
In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its
effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view of subtantial
justice between the parties.

§ 160. f 137. j (Am'dl849.) Irrelevant and redundant mailer to be
stricken out.
If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it may be
stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved thereby. And when the
allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise
nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may require the
pleading to be made definite and certain, by amendment.

§ 161. [138. J Judgments, how to be. pleaded
In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a court, or officei of
special jurisdiction, it shall not he necessary to state the facts conferring juris
diction, hut such judgment or determination may he stated to have been
duly given or made. If such allegation he controverted, the party
pleading shall he hound to establish, on the trial, tho facts conferring
jurisdiction.

§ 162. [139.] (Am'd 1851.) Conditions precedent, how to be pleaded.
In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it
shall not he necessary to state the facts showing such performance ; but it
may be stated, generally, that the party duly performed all the conditions on
his part ; and if such allegation he controverted, the party pleading shall
be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance.
In an action or defense, founded upon an instrument for the payment of
money only, it shall be sufficient for a party to give a copy of the instru
ment, and to state that there is due to him thereon from the adverse party
a specified sum which he claims

§ 162. [140. J Private statutes, how to be pleaded.
In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be
sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of its passage, and
the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof

§ 1624. [141.] Libel and slander, how slated in complaint.
In an action for libel or slander it shall not be necessary to state in the
complaint any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of showing the application
to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action
arose ; but it shall be sufficient to state, generally, that the same was pub
lished or spoken concerning the plaintifff, and if such allegation be contro
verted, the plaintifff shall be bound to establish, on trial, that it was so
published or spoken.

§ 162. [142.] (Am'd 1849.) Answer in such cases.
In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may, in his
answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and any
mitigating circumstances, to reduce the/amount of damages; and, whether
he prove the justification or not, lie may give in evidence the mitigating
circumstances.

§ 166. In actions to recover property distrained for damage, answer
need not set forth title.
In an action to recover the possession of property distrained doing
damage, an answer that the defendant, or person by whose command he
acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property upon which the distress
was made, and that the property distrained was at the time doing damage
thereon, shall be good, without setting forth the title to such real property.
§ 167. [143.] (Am'd, 1849, 1852, 1863.) What causes of action may be
joined in the same action.
The plaintifff may unite in the same complaint several causes of action,
whether they be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equita
ble, or both, where they all arise out of,
1. The same transaction or transactions connected with the same subject
of action ;
2. Contract, express or implied ; or
3. Injuries, with or without force, to person and property, or either ; or
4. Injuries to character ; or
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages, for with
holding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same ; or
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages foi
the withholding thereof ; or
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation ot
law.
But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to one of these
classes, and, except in actions for the foreclosure of mortgages, must affect
all the parties to the action, and not require different places of trial, and
must be separately stated.
In actions to foreclose mortgages the court shall have power to adjudge
and direct the payment, by the mortgagor, of any residue of the mortgage
debt that rauv remain unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises, in
cases in which the mortgagor shall be personally liable for the debt secured
by such mortgage ; and if the mortgage debt be secured by the covenant
or obligation of any person other than the mortgagor, the plaintifff may
make such person a party to the action, and the court may adjudge pay
ment of the residue of such debt remaining unsatisfied after a sale of the
mortgaged premises against such other person, and may enforce such judg
ment as in other cases.

§ 16B. [144.] (Am'd 1849, 1802.) Allegation not denied; when to be
deemed true.
Every material allegation of the complaint, not controverted by the
answer, as prescribed in section 149 ; and every material allegation of new
matter in the answer, constituting a counterclaim, not controverted by the
reply, as prescribed in section 153, shall, for the purposes of the action, be
taken as true. But the allegation of new matter in the answer, not relating
to a counterclaim, or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted
by the adverse party as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may
require

§ 169. [145.] (Am'd 1849.) Material variances, how provided for.
No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof shall be
leemed material, unless it have actually misled the adverse party, to his
prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense, upon the merits. Whenever
it shall be alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved
to the satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he has been misled;
and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended, upon such
terms as shall be just.

§ 170. [146.] Immaterial variances, how provided for.
Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the
court may direct the fact to he found according to the evidence, or may
order an immediate amendment, without costs.

§ 171. [147.] What to be denned a variance.
Where, however, the allegation of the cause of action or defense to
which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some particular or particu
lars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case
of variance, within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

§ 172- [148. J Am'd 1849, 1851, 1859.) Amendments of course.
Any pleading may be once amended by the party, of course, without
costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already had. at any time
within twenty days after it is served, or at any time before the period for
answering it expires, or, it can be so amended at any time within twenty
days after the service of the answer or demurrer to such pleading, unless it
be made to appear to the court that it was done for the purposes of delay,
and the plaintifff or defendant will thereby lose the benefit of a circuit or
term for which the cause is or may be noticed ; and if it appear to the
court that such amendment was made for such purpose, the same may be
stricken out and such terms imposed as to the court may seem just. In
such case a copy of the amended pleading must be served on the adverse
party. After the decision of a demurrer, either at a general or special
term, the court may, in its discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was
interposed in good faith, allow the party to plead over upon such terms as
may be just. If the demurrer be allowed for the cause mentioned in the
fifth subdivision of section 144, the court may, in its discretion, and upon
such terms as may be just, order the action to be divided into as many
actions as may be necessary to the proper determination of the causes of
action therein mentioned.

§ 173. [149.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852.) Amendments by the court.
The court may, before or after judgment, in furtherance of justice, and
on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading, process or proceed
ing, by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by
inserting other allegations material to the case, or when the amendment
does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the
pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.

§ 174:. [149.] (Am'dl851.) Amendments after demurrer.
The court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon such terms as may be
just, allow an answer or reply to be made, or other act to be done, after
the time limited by this act, or, by an order, enlarge such time ; and may
also, in its discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, at any time
within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order,
or other proceeding, taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect ; and may supply an omission in any proceed
ing ; and whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to conform, in any
respect, to the provisions of this G)de, the court may, in like manner and
upon like terms, permit an amendment of such proceeding, so as to make
it conformable thereto.

§ 175. [150.] Suing aparty by a fictitious name, when allowed.
When the plaintifff' shall he ignorant of the name of a defendant, such
defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name ;
and when his true name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding
may be amended accordingly.

§ 17 6. [151.] No error or defect to he regarded, unless it affect substan
tial rights.
The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any error or de
feet in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not affect the substantial
rights of the adverse party ; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected
by reason of such error or defect.

§ 177. [152.] (Am'd 1849, 1866.) Supplemental complaint, ansioer and
reply.
The plaintifff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on motion,
to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging facts material
to the case occurring after the former complaint, answer or reply, or of
which the party was ignorant when his former pleading was made, and cither
party may, by leave of the court, in any pending or future action, set up,
t>y a supplemental pleading, the judgment or decree of any court of compe
tent jurisdiction, rendered since the commencement of such action, deter
mining the matters in controversy in said action, or any part thereof, and
if" said judgment be set up by the plaintifff, the same shall be without pre
judice to any provisional remedy theretofore issued, or other proceedings
had in said action, on his behalf. 

§ 177. [153.] No person to be arrested, except as prescribed by this act.
No person shall be arrested in a civil action except as prescribed by this
act ; but this provision shall not affect the act to abolish imprisonment for
debt, and to punish fraudulent debtors, passed April 26, 1831, or any act
amending the same, nor sli.ill it apply to proceedings for contempts.

§ 179. [154.J (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1863.) Cases in which defendant may be
arrested.
The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed, in the follow
ing cases :
1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of action not
arising out of contract, where the defendant is not a resident of the State,
or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action is for an injury to
person or character, or for injuring, or for wrongfully taking, detaining, or
converting property ;
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a promise to marry, or for
money received, or property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, by a
public officer, or by an attorney, solicitor, or counsellor, or by an officer or
agent of a corporation or banking association, in the course of his employ
ment as such, or by any factor, agent, broker, or other person in a fiduciary
capacity, or for any misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional
employment ;
. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly
detained, where the property, or any part thereof, has been concealed, re
moved, or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by the sheriff,
and with the intent that it should not be so found or taken, or with the in
tent to deprive the plaintifff of the benefit thereof ;
4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud, in contracting the
debt or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or in con
cealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention or conver
sion of which the action is brought, or when the action is brought to
recover damages for fraud or deceit ;
5. When the defendant has removed, or disposed of his property, or is
about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
But no female shall be arrested, in any action, except for a willful in
jury to person, character or property.

§ 180. [155. J Order for arrest, by whom made.
An order for the urrest of the defendant, must be obtained from a judge
of the court in which the action is brought, or from a county judge.

§ 181. [156. J (Am'dl849.) Affidavit to obtain order ; to what actions this
chapter applicable.
The order may be made, where it shall appear to the judge, by the affi
davit of tho plaintifff" or of any other person, that a sufficient cause of action
exists, and that the case is one of those mentioned in section 179.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all actions included within
the provisions of section 179, which shall have been commenced since the
thirtieth day of June, one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight, and in
which judgment shall not have been obtained.

§ 182. [157.] Security by plaintifff before order of arrest.
Before making the order, the judge shall require a written undertaking
on the part of the plaintifff, with or without sureties, to the effect, that if
the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs that maybe
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason
of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
shall be at least one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed by
the plaintifff, without sureties, he shall annex thereto an affidavit that he is
a resident and householder or freeholder within the State, and worth double
the sum specified in the undertaking, over all his debts and liabilities.

§ 183. [158.] (Am'd 1849, 1862.) Order, when made and its form.
The order may be made to accompany the summons, or at any time after
wards, before judgment. It shall require the sheriff of the county, where
the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail
in a specified sum, and to return the order at a time and place thereiu
mentioned, to the plaintifff or attorney by whom it shall be subscribed or
indorsed. But said order of arrest shall be of no avail, and shall be
vacated or set aside on motion, unless the same is served upon the defend
ant as provided by law before the docketing of any judgment in the action,
and the defendant shall have twenty clays after the service of the order of
arrest in which to answer the complaint in the action and to move to vacate
the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail.

§ 184. [159.J Affidavit and order to be delivered to sheriff, and copy
» o defendant.
The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the sheriff, who,
upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him a copy thereof.

§ 185. [160.] Arrest, how made.
The sheriff shall execute the order, by arresting the defendant and keep
ing him in custody, until discharged by law ; and may call the power of
the country* to his aid, in the execution of the arrest as in case of process.

$ 186. [161.] (Am'd 1870.) Defendant to be discharged on bail or
deposit.
The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged from
the arrest, either upon giving bail, of upon depositing the amount men
tioned in the order of arrest as provided in this chapter. The defendant
may give bail whenever arrested, at any hour of the day or night, and
shall have reasonable opportunity to procure it, before being committed to
prison

§ 187. [162.J (Am'd 1849.) Bail, how given.
The defendant may give bail, by causing a written undertaking to be ex
ecuted by two or more sufficient bail, stating their places of residence and
occupations, to the effect that the defendant shall at all times render him
self amenable to the process of the court, during the pendency of the ac
tion, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or if
he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section
179, and undertaking to the same effect as that provided by section 211.

§ 188. [163.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Surrender of defendant.
At any time before a failure to comply with the undertaking, the bail
may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may surrender him
self to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested, in the following
manner :
1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be delivered to
the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his custody thereon, as upon
an order of arrest, and shall, by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the
surrender ;
2. Upon a production of a copy of the undertaking and sheriffs certifi
cate, a judge of the court, or county judge, may, upon a notice to the
plaintifff, of eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be
exonerated; and, on filing the order and the papers used on said applica
tion, they shall be exonerated accordingly. But this section shall nof
apply to an arrest for cause mentioned in subdivision 3, of section 179, so
as to discharge the bail from an undertaking given to the effect provided
by section 211.

§ 189. [164.] Surrender of defendant.
For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at any time or
place, before they are finally charged, may themselves arrest him, or by a
written authority, indorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may em
power any person of suitable age and discretion to do so.

§ 190. [165.] Bail, how -proceeded against.
In case of failure to comply with the undertaking the bail may be pro
ceeded against by action only.

§ 191- [166.] (Am'd 1849.) Bail, how exonerated.
The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of the defendant, or
his imprisonment in a state prison, or by his legal discharge from the obli
gation to render himself amenable to the process, or by his surrender to
the sheriff of the county where he was arrested, in execution thereof, within
twenty days after the commencement of the action against the bail, or with
in such further time as may be granted by the court

§ 192. [167.] (Am'd 1849.) Delivery of undertaking to plaintifff and its
acceptance or rejection by him.
Within the time limited for that purpose the sheriff shall deliver the
order of arrest to the plaintifff or attorney by whom it is subscribed, with
his return indorsed, and a certified copy of the undertaking of the bail.
The plaintifff, within ten days thereafter, may sorve upon the sheriff a notice
that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted it,
and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability.
§ 193. [168.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Notice of justification, new undertaking;
if other- bail.
On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or defendant may, within ten
days thereafter, give to the plaintifff or attorney by whom the order of arrest
is subscribed, notice of the justification of the same, or other bail (specify
ing the places of residence and occupation of the latter), before a judge of
the court, or county judge, at a specified time and place ; the time to be
not less than five nor more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail
be. given, there shall be a new undertaking, in the form prescribed in
section 187.

§194. [169.] (Am'd, 1849.) Qualifications of bail.
The qualifications of bail must be as follows :
1. Each of them must be a resident and householder or freeholder,
within the State ;
2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order of arrest,
exclusive of property exempt from execution, but the judge, or a justice of
the peace, on justification, may allow more than two bail to justify severally
in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole justification
he equivalent to that of two sufficient bail

§ 195- [170.] (Am'd 1849.) Justification and allowance of bail.
For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall attend before the
judge, or a justice of the peace, at the time and place mentioned in the no
tice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff, touching his
sufficiency, in such manner as the judge or justice of the peace, in his dis
cretion may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing and
subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.

§ 196. [171.] (Am'd 1849.) Allowance of bail.
If the judge or justice of the peace find the bail sufficient, he shall an
nex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and
cause them to be filed with the clerk ; and the sheriff shall thereupon be
exonerated from liability.

§ 197. [172.] Deposit of money with sheriff.
The .defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving bail,
deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order. The sheriff
shall, thereupon, give the defendant a certificate of the deposit, and the de
fendant shall be discharged out of custody.

§ 198. [173.] (Am'd 1849.) Payment of money into court by sherif.
The sheriff shall, within four days after the deposit, pay the same into
court ; and shall fake from the officer receiving the same, two certificates of
such payment, the one of which he shall deliver to the plaintifff, and the
other to the defendant. For any default in making such payment, the same
proceedings may be had on the official bond of the sheriff to collect the sum
deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 199. [174.] (Am'd 1849.) Substituting bail for deposit.
If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail may be
given and justified upon notice, as prescribed in section 193, any time before
judgment ; and thereupon the • judge before whom the justification is had,
shall direct, in the order of allowance, that the money deposited be re
funded by the sheriff to the defendant, and it shall be refunded accordingly.

§ 200. [175.] (Am'd 1849.) Money deposited, how applied or disof.
Where money shall have been so deposited, if it remain on deposit at
the time of an order or judgment for the payment of money to the plaintifff,
the clerk shall, under the direction of the court, apply the same in satisfac
tion thereof, and, after satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus,
if any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the
clerk shall refund to him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

§ 201. [176.] (Am'd 1849.) Sheriff, when liable as bail ; find his discharge
from liability.
If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or bo rescued, or bail be not
given or justified, or a deposit be not made instead thereof, the sheriff shall
himself be liable as bail. But he may discharge himself from such liability,
by the giving and justification of bail as provided in sections 193, 194, 195
and 190, at any time before process against the person of the defendant, to
enforce an order or judgment in the action.

§ 202. [177. J Proceedings on judgment against sheriff.
If a judgment be recoved against the sheriff, upon his liability as bail,
and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same
p roceedings may be had on the official bond of the sheriff, to collect the
deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 203. [178.] (Am'd 1849.) Bail liable to sheriff': *
The bail taken upon the arrest shall, unless they justify, or other bail be
given or justified, be liable to the sheriff, by action, for damages which he
may sustain by reason of such omission.

§ 204. [179.] (Am'd 1858.) Motion to vacate order of arrest, or reduce
bail.
A defendant arrested may, at any time before judgment, apply, on mo
tion, to vacate the order of arrest or to reduce the amount of bail.

§ 205. Affidavits on motion.
If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but
not other wise, the plaintifff' may oppose the same' by affidavits or other
proofs, in addition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

§ 206. [181. J (Am'd 1849.) Delivery of personal properly; when it
may be claimed.
The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of personal property,
may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before answer,
claim the immediate delivery of such property as provided in this chapter.

§ 207. [ 182.] Affidavit ami its requisites.
Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must lie made by tho plaintifff,
or by some one in his behalf, showing :
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly
describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue
of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall be sot
forth ;
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant;
• 3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, information and belief;
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or tine, pursu
ant to a statute ; or seized under an execution or attachment against the
property of the plaintifff; or if so seized, that it is, by statute, exempt from
such seizure ; and,
5. The actual value of the property.

§ 208. [183. J Requisition to the sheriff to take and deliver the property.
The plaintifff may, thereupon, by an indorsement in writing upon the
affidavit, require the sheriff of the county where the property claimed
may be, to take the same from the defendant and deliver it to the
plaintifff


§ 209. [184.] (Am'd 1849.) Security on the part of the plaintifff, and
justification.
Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a written undertaking,
executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff, to the
effect that they are bound, in double the value of the property as stated in
(he affidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the prop-"
erty to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment
to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the plaintifff,
the sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it
be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his cus
tody. He shall, also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of tho
affidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally,
if he can he found, or to his agent, from whose possession the property is
taken ; or, if neither can bo found, by leaving' them at the usual place of
abode of either, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

§ 210. [185.] Exception to sureties and proceedint/s thereon, or on
failure to except.
The defendant may, within three days after the service of a copy of the
affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the
sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he shall be deemed to have
waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties
shall justify, on notice, in like maimer as upon bail on arrest. And the
sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the objec
tion to them is either waived, as above provided, or until they shall justify,
or new sureties shall be substituted and justify. If the defendant except
to the sureties he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next
so tion.

§ 211. [18G.] (Am'd 1849.) Defendant, when entitled to redelivery.
At &x\y time before the delivery of the property to tthe plaintifff, the
defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff, require
the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking, execu
ted by two or more suificient sureties, to the effect that they are bound, in
double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff,
for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and
for the payment 1" him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered
against the defendant. If a return of the property be not so required
within three days after the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it
shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section 216.

§ 212. f 187.J (Am'd 1849.) Justification of defendant's sureties.
The defendant's sureties, upon a notice to the plaintifff of not less than
two or more than six days, shall justify before a judge or justice of the
peace, in the same manner as upon bail or arrest ; upon such justification,
the sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be
responsible for the defendant's sureties, until they justify, or until justifica
tion is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the property until
that time ; but if they, or others in their place, fail to justify, at the time
and place appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.


§ 213. [188. J (Am'd 1849.) Qualifications and justification of sureties.
The'qualification.s of sureties and their justification, shall be as are pre
scribed by sections 194 and 195, in respect to bail upon an order of arrest.
§ 214. [189.] Property; how taken, when concealed in building or
enclosure.
If the property or any part therof be concealed in a building or inclo
sure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery. If it be not delivered,
he shall cause the building or enclosure to bo broken open, and take the
property into his possession ; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the
power of the county.
§ 215. [190.] Property; how kept.
When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this chapter pro
vided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver to the party entitled
thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expen
ses for keeping the same.

§ 216. Claim of property by third person.
If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the defend
ant or his agent, and such person shall make affidavit of his title thereto,
and right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such right and
title, and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound
to keep (he property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, -on
demand of him or his agent, shall indemnify the sheriff against such claim
by an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their
affidavits that they each are worth double the value of the property as speci
fied in (he affidavit of the plaintifff, and freeholders and householders of the
county. And no claim to such property by any other person than the de
fendant or his agent shall be valid against the sheriff unless made as afore
said, and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain the
property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.

§ 217. Notice and affidavit, when and where to he filed.
The sheriff shall file the notice and affidavit, with his proceedings there
on, with the clerk of the court in which the action is pending, within twenty
days after taking the property mentioned therein

§ 218. [191.1 Writ of injunction abolished, and order substituted.
The writ of injunction as a provisional remedy is abolished ; and an in
junction, by order, is substituted therefore. The order may be made by the
court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, or by a county
judge, in the cases provided in the next section ; and when made by a
judge may be enforced as the order of the court.

§ 219. [192.] (Am'dl849.) Injunction; in what cases granted.
Where it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to
the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in
restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the commission or
continuance of which, during the litigation, would produce injury to the
plaintifff, or when, during the litigation, it shall appear that the defendant
is doing, or threatens, or is aHotit to do, or procuring or suffering some act
to be done in violation of the plaintifff's rights, respecting the subject of
the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary
injunctidn may be granted to restrain such act. ^.nd where, during the
pendency of an action, it shall appear by affidavit that the defendant
threatens, or is about to remove or dispose of his property, with intent to
defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain
such removal or disposition.

§ 220. [193.] At what time it may be granted.
The injunction may be granted at the time of commencing the action,
or at any time afterwards, before judgment, upon its appearing satisfacto
rily to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or of any othei
person, that sufficient grounds exist therefore. A copy of the affidavit must
be served with the injunction.

§ 221. [194.J (Am'dl849.) Notice, when required ; temporary injunction.
An injunction shall not be allowed, after the defendant shall have an
swered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show cause ; but in such
case the defendant may be restrained, until the decision of the court or
judge granting or refusing the injunction.
t
§ 222. [195.J (Am'd 184 1.) Security upon injunction; damages, how
ascertained.
Where no provision is made by statute as to security upon an injunction,
the court or judge shall require a written undertaking on the part of the
plaintifff, with or without sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay to
the party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified,
tis he may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court shall finally de
cide that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascer
tained by a reference, or otherwise, as the court shall direct.

§ 228. [196. J (Am'd 1849.) Order to shoxo cause why injunction should
not be granted.
If the cour. or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any of sev
eral defendants, should be heard before granting the injunction, an order
may be made requiring cause to be shown, at a specified time and place,
why the injunction should not be granted ; and the defendant may, in the
mean time, be restrained.

§ 224. [197.] (Am'd 1849.) Security, upon injunction to suspend busi
ness of corporation.
An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business of a corpor
ation shall not be granted except by the court or a judge thereof. Nor
shall it be granted without due notice of the application therefore to the
proper officers of the corporation, except where the people of this State are
a party to the proceeding, and except in proceedings to enforce the liability
of stockholders in corporations and associations for banking purposes, after
the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and fifty, as such pro
ceedings are or shall be provided by law, unless the plaintifff shall give a
written undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, to be approved by
the court or judge, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay all damages, not
exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, which such corpora
tion may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court shall finally decide
that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained
by a reference or otherwise, as the court shall direct.

§ 225. [198.] Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
If the injunction be granted by a judge of the court, or by a county
judge, without notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial, may ap
ply, upon notice, to a judge of the court in which the action is brought, to
vacate or modify the same. The application may be made upon the com
plaint and the affidavits on which the injunction was granted, or upou af
fidavits on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer.

§ 226. [199.] (Am'd 1870.) Affidavits, on motion.
The application mentioned in the last section may be opposed by affidadavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on which the injunction was
granted.

§ 227. (Am'd 1857, 1866.) Property of foreign corporations and of non
residents, or absconding or concealed defendants may be attached.
In an action arising on contract for the recovery of money only, or in
an art ion for the wrongful conversion of personal property, against a cor
poration created by or under the laws of any other State, government or
country, or against a defendant who is not a resident of this State, or against
a defendant who has. absconded or concealed himself, or whenever any
person or corporation is about to remove any of his or its property from
this State, or has assigned, disposed of or secreted, or is about to a.ssign,
dispose of or secrete any of his or its property, with intent to defraud
creditors, as hereinafter mentioned, the plaintifff, at the time of issuing the
summons, or any time afterwards, niay have the property of such defendant
or corporation attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as a security
for the satisfaction of such judgment as the plaintifff may recover ; and for
the purposes of this section an action shall be deemed commenced when
the summons is issued ; provided, however, that personal service of such
summons shall be made, or publication thereof commenced within thirty
days,

§ 228. Warrant, by whom granted.
A warrant of attachment must be obtained from a judge of the court
in which the action is brought, or from a county judge.

§ 229. (Am'd 1857, 1800.) In what cases wan-ant may be granted.
The warrant may be issued whenever it shall appear by affidavit that a
cause of action exists against .such defendant, specifying the amount of the
claim and the grounds thereof, and that the defendant is either a foreign
corporation, or not a resident of this State, or has departed therefrom with
intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or
keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent, or that such corpora
tion or person has removed, or is about to remove, any of his or its prop
erty from this State with intent to defraud his or Its creditors,- or has
assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of, or
secrete, any of his or its property, with the like intent, whether such defend
ant be a resident of this State or not.
It shall be the duty of the plaintifff procuring such warrant, within ten
days after the issuing thereof, to cause the affidavits on which the same
was granted to be filed in the office of the clerk of the county in which the
action is to be tried.

§ 230. (Am'd 1862.) Security on obtaining warrant.
Before issuing the warrant, the judge shall require a written undertaking
on the part of the plaintifff, with sufficient surety, to the effect that, if the
defendant recover judgment, or the attachment be set aside by the order
of the court, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the
defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attach
ment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be
at least two hundred and fifty dollars.

§ 231. (Am'dl851.) Warrant, to whom directed, and wliab to require.
The warrant shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in which
property of such defendant may he, and shall require him to attach and
safely keep all the property of such defendant within his county, or so
much thereof as may be .sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, together
with costs and expenses, the amount of which must be stated in conformity
with the complaint, together with costs and expenses. Several warrants
may be issued at the same time to the sheriff's of different counties.

§ 232. Mode of proceeding in executing roan-ant.
The sheriff to whom such warrant of attachment is directed and deliv
ered, shall proceed thereon, in all respects, in the manner required of him
by law in case of attachments against absent debtors, shall make and return
an inventory, and shall keep the property seized by him, or the proceeds
of such as shall have been sold, to answer any judgment which may be
obtained in such action, and shall, subject to the direction. of the court or
judge, collect and receive into his possession all debts, credits and effects
of the defendant. The sheriff" may also lake such legal proceedings, either
in his own name or in the name of such defendant, as may be necessary for
that purpose, and discontinue the same at such times and on such terms as
the court or judge may direct.

§ 233. Proceedings in case of perishable property or vessel.
If any property so seized shall be perishable, or if any part of it be
claimed by any other person than such defendant, or if any part of it con
sists of a vessel, or of any share or interest therein, the same proceedings
shall be had in all respects as are provided by law upon attachments against
absent debtor.§ 234. Interest in corporations or associations liable to attachment.
The rights or shares which such defendant may have in the stock of any
association or corporation, together with the interest and profits thereon, and
all other property in this State, of such defendant, shall be liable to be at
tached and levied upon and sold to satisfy the judgment and execution

§ 235. Attachment, how executed on property incapable of manual
delivery.
The execution of the attachment upon any such rights, shares, or any
debts or other property incapable of manual delivery to the sheriff, shall be
made by leaving a certified copy of the warrant of attachment with the presi
dent or other^head of the association or corporation, or the secretary, cash
ier, or managing agent thereof, or with the debtor or individual holding such
property, with a notice showing the property levied on.

§ 286. Certificate of defendant's interest to be furnished by corporation.
Whenever the sheriff shall, with a warrant of attachment, or execution
against the defendant, apply to such officer, debtor or individual, for the
purpose of attaching or levyiug upon such property, such officer, debtor
or individual shall furnish him with a certificate, under his hand, designating
the number of rights or shares of the defendant in the stock of such asso
ciation or corporation, with any dividend, or any encumbrance thereon, or
the amount and description of the property held by such association, cor
poration or individual for the benefit of, or debt owing to, the defendant.
If such officer, debtor or individual refuse to do so, he may be required
by the court or judge to attend before him and be examined on oath
concerning the same, and obedience to such orders may be enforced by
attachment.

§ 237. (Am'd 1849.) Judgment, how satisfied.
In case judgment be entered for the plaintifff in such action, the sheriff
shall satisfy the same out of the property attached by him, if it shall be
sufficient for that purpose :
1. By paying over to such plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perish
able property, and of any vessel, or share or interest in .any vessel, sold by
him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or so. much as shall be
necessary to satisfy such judgment ;
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been issued
on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell under such execution so much of
the attached property, real or personal, except :is provided in subdivision
four of this section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough
for that purpose shall remain in his hands ; and in case of the sale of any
rights or shares in the stock of a corporation or association, the sheriff shall
execute to the purchaser a certificate of sale thereof, and the purchaser
shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect thereto which
•were had by such defendant ;
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant shall
have passed out of the hands of the sheriff without having beeu sold or
converted into money, such sheriff shall repossess himself of the same, and
for lhat purpose- shall have all the authority which he had to seize the
same under the attachment ; and any person who shall willfully conceal or
withhold such property from the sheriff, shall be liable to double damages
at the suit of the party injured ;
4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid, the sheriff
may proceed to collect the notes and other evidences of debt, and the debts
that may have been seized or attached under the warrant of attachment,
and to prosecute any bond he may have taken in the course of such pro
ceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of the judg
ment.
At the expiration of six months from the docketing of the judgment,
the court shall have power, upon the petition of the plaintifff accompanied
by an affidavit, setting forth fully all the proceedings -which have been had
by the sheriff since the service of the attachment, the property attached
and the disposition thereof, and also the affidavit of the sheriff that he has
used diligence and endeavored to collect the evidences of debt in his hands
so attached, and that there remains uncollected of the same any part or
portion thereof, to order the sheriff to sell the same upon such terms and
in such manner as shall be deemed proper. Notice of such application
shall be given to the defendant or his attorney, if the defendant shall have
appeared in the action. In case the summons has not beeu personally
served on the defendant, the court shall make such rule or order as to the
service of notice and the time of service as shall be deemed just.
When the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall have been
paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall deliver over to the defend
ant the residue of the attached property, or the proceeds thereof.

§ 238. When action to recover notes, etc. of defendant may be prose
cuted by plaintifff in the action in which the attachment issued.
The actions herein authorized to be brought by the sheriff may be prose
cuted by the plaintifff, or under his direction, upon the delivery by him to
the sheriff of an undertaking, executed by two sufficient* sureties, to the
effect that the plaintifff will indemnify the sheriff from all damages, costs
and expenses on account thereof, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dol
lars in any one action. Such sureties shall in all cases, when required by
the sheriff, justify, by making an affidavit that each is a householder, and
■worth double the amount of the penalty of the bond, over and above all
demands and liabilities. 

§ 240. (Am'dl862.) Discliarge of attachment and return of property, or
its proceeds, to defendant, on his appearance in action.
Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in such action, he may
apply to the officer who issued the attachment, or to the court, for an order
to discharge the same, and if the same be granted, all the proceeds of sales
and monies collected by him, and all the property attached remaining in
his hands, shall be delivered or paid by him to the defendant or his agent,
and released from the attachment.
Aud where there is more than one defendant, and several property of
either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the order of attach
ment, the defendant whose several property has been seized may apply to
the officer who issued the attachment for relief under this section.

§ 5241. (Am'd 1857, 1862, 1869.) Undertaking on the part of the defend
ant.
Upon such application the defendant shall deliver to the court or officer
an undertaking, executed by at least two sureties who are residents and
freeholders or householders in this State, approved by such court or officer,
to the effect that the sureties will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the
amount of judgment that may be recovered against the defendant in the
action, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be
at least double the amount claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint. If it
shall appeal' by affidavit that the property attached be less- than the amount
claimed by the plaintifff, the court or officer issuing the attachment may or
der the same to be appraised, and the amount of the undertaking shall then
be double the amount so appraised.
And the plaintifff may, within three days after receiving written notice
of the tiling of such undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts
to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails so to do, he shall be deemed
to have waived all objection to them. When the plaintifff excepts, the
sureties shall justify on notice in like manner as upon bail on arrest.
And the sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties,
and may retain possession of the property attached, and the proceeds thereof
in his hands, until the objection to them is cither waived, as above provided,
or until they shall justify, or new sureties shall be substituted and justify.
And in all cases the defendant may move to discharge the attachment,
as in the case of other provisional remedies.
And when there is more than one defendant, and several property of
either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the order of attach
ment, the defendant, whose several property has been seized, may deliver
to the court or officer an undertaking in accordance with the provisions of
this section, to the effect that he will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the
amount of judgment that may be recovered against such defendant.
And all the provisions of this section applicable to such undertaking
shall be applied thereto.

§ 242. When sheriff to return warrant, and proceedings thereon.
When the warrant shall be fully executed or discharged the sheriff shall
return the same, with his proceedings thereon, to the court in which tho
action was brought.

§ 243. (Am'd 1805.) Sheriff's fees.
The sheriff shall be entitled to the same fees and compensation for ser
vices, and the same disbursements, under this title, as are allowed by law
for like services and disbursements under the provisions of chapter live,
title one, and part two of the revised statutes. Provided, however, that no
poundage or other compensation shall be allowed to the said sheriff (ex
cept his fee of fifty cents for making the levy, and such compensation for
his trouble and expense in taking possession of and preserving the property
as shall be fixed by the officer issuing the attachment), unless a settlement
shall be had or a judgment shall be recovered and collected in whole or in
part in the action in which the attachment in this title referred to shall
have issued. And where a judgment shall have been recovered and col
lected in part only, the amount of his poundage shall not be estimated
upon any sum greater than the sum collected upon such judgment. And
where a settlement shall be had, the amount of his poundage shall not be
estimated upon any sum greater than the amount at which said settlement
is made.


§ 244. (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1857, 1858, 1862, 1867.) Powers of court as to
receivers, deposit of money, etc., in court, and other provisional remedies.
A receiver may he appointed :
1. Before judgment, on the application of cit her party, when he estab
lishes an apparent right to the property which is the subject of the action,
anil which is in the possession of an adverse party, and the property, or its
rents and profits, are in danger of being lost or materially injured or
impaired, except in -cases where judgment upon failure to answer maybe
had without application to the court ;
2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect ;
3. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judgment,
or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or when an execution
has been returned unsatisfied, and the judgment debtor refuses to apply his
property in satisfaction of the judgment ;
4. In the cases provided in this Code and by special statutes, when a
corporation hits been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in imminent danger of
insolvency, or h;is forfeited it corporate rights ; and in like cases of the
property within this State of foreign corporations. Receivers of the prop
erty within this State of foreign or other corporations shall be allowed such
commission, as may he fixed by the court appointing them, not exceeding
live per cent on the amount received and disbursed by them ;
5. In such other oases as are now provided by law or may be in accord
ance with the existing practice except as otherwise provided in this act.
When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a party, that he
has in his possession, or under his control, any money or other thing capa
ble of delivery, which, being the subject of litigation, is held by him as
trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party,
the court may order the same to be deposited in court, or delivered to such
party, with or without security, subject to the further direction of the
court.
Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall have ordered
the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money or other property, and the
order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience, as for
contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or
property, and deposit, deliver or convey it, in conformity with the direc
tion of the court.
When the answer of the defendant, expressly or by not denying, admits
part of the plaintifff's claim to be just, the court, on motion, may order such
defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the order as it
enforces a judgment or provisional remedy.

§ 245. [201.] Judgment ; what
A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the parties in the
or-tion.

§ 246. [202.J (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1858.) Judgment on failure of defendant
to answer.
Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, as
follows :
1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of money only,
the plaintifff may file with the clerk proof of personal service of the sum
mons and complaint on one or more of the defendants, or of the summons,
according to the provisions of section 130; and that no answer has been
received. The clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for the amount men
tioned in the summons, against the defendant or defendants, or against one
or more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in section 136. But
if the complaint be not sworir to, and such action is on an instrument for
the payment of money only, the clerk, on its production to him, shall
assess the amount due to the plaintifff thereon; and in other cases shall
ascertain the amount which the plaintifff is entitled to recover in such action,
from his examination under oath, or other proof, and enter the judgment
for the amount so assessed or ascertained. In case the defendant give
notice of appearance in the action he shall be entitled to five days' notice
of the time and place of such assessment. •
Where the defendant by his answer in any such action shall not deny
the plainiiff's claim, but shall set up a counterclaim amounting to less than
the plaintifff's claim, judgment may be had by the plaintifff for the excess
of said claim, over the said counterclaim, in like manner in any such action,
upon the plaintifff's filing with the clerk of the court a statement admitting
such counterclaim, which statement shall be annexed to and bo a part of
the judgment roll ;
2. In other actions the plaintifff may, upon the like proof, apply to the
court, after the expiration of the time for answering, for the relief demanded
in the complaint. If the taking of an account or the proof of any fact be
necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment
into effect, the court may take the account or hear the proof, or may, in its
discretion, order a refcreuce for that purpose. And where the action is for
the recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal property, with
damages for the withholding thereof, the court may order the damages to
be assessed by a jury, or, if the examination of a long account be involved,
by a reference as above provided. If the defendant give notice of appear
ance in the action before the expiration of the time for answering, he shall
be entitled to eight days' notice of the time and place of application to the
court for the relief demanded by the complaint ;
3. In actions where the service of the summons was by publication, the
plaintifff may, in like manner, apply for judgment, and the court must there
upon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint,
and if the defendant be not a resident of the State, must require the plaint
iff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting any payments that have
been made to the plaintifff or to any one for his use, on account of such
demand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to
recover. Before rendering judgment the court may, in its discretion,
require the plaintifff to cause to be filed satisfactory security to abide the
order of the court, touching the restitution of any estate or effects which
may be directed by such judgment to be transferred or delivered, or the
restitution of any money that may be collected under or by virtue of such
judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives shall apply and be
admitted to defend the action, and shall succeed in such defense.

§ 247. Judgment on frivolous demurrer, answer or reply.
If a demurrer, answer or reply be frivolous, the party prejudiced there
by, upon a previous notice of five days, may apply lo a judge of the court,
either in or out of the court, for judgment thereon, and judgment may bo
given accordingly.

§ 248. [203.] The different kinds of issues.
Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclusion of law Is
maintained by the one party and controverted by the other. They are of
two kinds :
1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.

§ 249. [204.] Issue of law.
An issue of law arises,
1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply, or to some part
thereof.
§ 250. [205.] (Am'd 1849.) Issue of fact.
An issue of fact arises,
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the
2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply ; or,
3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law is joined
thereon.

§ 251. [206.] On issues of both law and fact, the issue of law to be first
tried.
Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different parts of the
pleadings in the same action. In such cases the issues of law must be first
tried unless the court otherwise direct.

§ 252. [207.] (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Trial, what.
A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between the parties,
whether they be issues of law or of fact.

§ 253. [208.] (Am'd 1849, 1852.) Issue offact to be tried by jury, unless
waived or reference ordered.
An issue of law must be tried by the court, unless it be referred, as
provided in sections 270 and 271. An issue of fact, in an action for the
recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal property, or for a
divorce from the marriage contract on the ground of adultery, must be
tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived as provided in section 266, or
a reference be ordered as provided in sections 270 and 271.

§ 254. [209.] (Am'd 1849.) Other issues to be tried by the court.
Every othor issue is triable by the court, which, however, may order
the whole issue, or any specific question of fact involved therein, to be tried
by a jury ; or may refer it, as provided in sections 270 and 271.

§ 255. [2 10. J (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852.) All issues to be tried before a
single judge.
All issues of fact, triable by a jury or by the court, must be tried before
a single judge. Issues of fact in the supreme court must be tried at a cir
cuit court when the trial is by jury, otherwise at a circuit court or special
term, as the court may by its rules prescribe. Issues of law must be tried
at a circuit court or special term, and shall, unless the court otherwise direct,
have preference on the calendar.

§ 256. [211.] (Am'd 1858, 1859, 1860, 1863, 1865, 1869.) Either party may
give notice of trial. Note of issue. Stenographer.
At any time after issue, and at least fourteen days before the court,
either party may give notice of trial. The party giving the notice shall
furnish the clerk, at least eight days before the court, with a note of the
issue, containing the title of the action, the names of the attorneys, and the
time when the last pleading was' served, and the clerk shall thereupon
enter the cause upon the calendar according to the date of the issue. In
the first judicial district there need be but one notice of trial, and one note
of issue from either party, and the action shall (hen remain on the calendar
until disposed of, and, when called, may be brought to trial by the party
giving the notice. In every action in which issue of the fact is now joined,
and the action is now placed upon the calendar of the supreme court of the
first judicial district, or of the superior court of the city of New York, or
of the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York, the
party who shall have filed such note of issue, shall, as a condition prece
dent to such action being brought to trial, pay to the clerk of the court the
sum of three dollars ; and in every action in either of the said courts, com
menced after the passage of this act, the party who shall file therein a first
note of issue of fact, shall, its a condition precedent to such filing, pay to
the clerk of the court the sum of three dollars ; and the amounts so received
Shall be accounted for under oath, and paid over monthly, by the clerk of
each of said courts, to the comptroller of the city of New York, and by him
deposited in the county treasury, to be used as a fund for the payment ot
the salaries of stenographers employed in said courts, as provided for in
this section. If the fund thus created be inadequate to pay such salaries,
the additional amount necessary for such payment shall be appropriated
and paid from the fund of county contingencies, to which fund any surplus
of the sums so paid over to the comptroller, as hereinbefore provided, shall
be credited.
Each of the courts hereinbefore named shall appoint a stenographer for
the circuit, trial term or special term, at which issues of fact are tried, which
constitutes a separate branch of such court, who shall be a sworn officer of
the court, shall hold office during the pleasure of the court, and shall be
paid a salary of twenty-five hundred dollars per annum, in like manner as
the salaries of the other officers of the courts are now paid. It shall be the
duty of every stenographer so appointed for any circuit, trial term or
special term, under the direction of the presiding judge thereof, to take
full stenographic notes of all proceedings in every trial thereat ; and in
case the presiding judge shall require a transcript of said stenographic
notes, he may order the expense thereof to be paid equally by the parties
to the action, at the rate of ten cents for every one hundred words so trans
cribed, and may enforce payment thereof ; and the amount so paid, together
with the sum paid as a condition precedent to the cause being brought to
trial, or to the first note of issue being filed, as hereinbefoie provided, shall
be deemed a necessary disbursement within the meaning of section 311 of
the Code of procedure, and shall be allowed as such to the prevailing party
in the action.
At any extra circuit, trial term or special term of said courts, the pre
siding judge thereof shall, appoint a stenographer for such extra circuit or
term, who shall, in like manner as aforesaid, be a sworn officer, and who
shall be paid a compensation at the rate and in the manner hereinbefore
provided. When a court of oyer and terminer shall be held in and for the
city and county of New York, the presiding judge thereof shall designate
one of the stenographers of the supreme court to act as stenographer of
sucli court of oyer and terminer during its session, who shall, in like
manner as aforesaid, be a sWoru officer, but who shall receive no compen
sation in addition to his salary as hereinbefore provided, except that in case
a transcript of his stenographic notes taken on the trial of any criminal cause
be required for the use of the presiding judge, or the district attorney, the
expense thereof shall, on the order of such judge or district attorney, be
paid as a county charge at the rate hereinbefore specified.
The surrogate of the county of New York is hereby authorized 'and
directed to appoint a stenographer to the surrogate's court of said county,
who shall be a sworn officer of the court, and shall he paid a salary of three
thousand dollars a year, in like manner as the salaries of clerks in said
court are now paid by law from the fees of said court paid into the treasury
of the county of New York. The stenographer so appointed shall be skilled
in the practice of his art, and shall hold his position during good behavior,
and so long as he efficiently discharges the duties of his office. He shall,
under the direction of the said surrogate, take full stenographic notes of all
proceedings in said court, in which oral proofs shall be given, which notes
shall be fairly transcribed, and, after being signed by the witnesses, depo
nent or affiant, shall be filed in the office of said surrogate. By consent of
the parties to the proceeding in which such proofs shall be taken, and said
surrogate, the signing of such record of proof by the witness, deponent or
affiant, may be waived, in which case such record, after being authenticated
by the certificate of said stenographer, or said surrogate, shall be deemed
to be the record of any proofs or proceedings so taken.
In other counties of this State, on trials of issues of fact, at any circuit
court, or court of oyer and terminer, it shall be lawful for the presiding
justice, in his discretion, to employ a stenographer, who shall be entitled
to such compensation as shall be certified by such justice, not exceed
ing five dollars for each day's attendance at such court, at the request of
such justice, and ten cents a mile for travel from his place of residence to
the place where the court is held, together with such sum for stationery as
the presiding justico shall certify, whicli compensation shall be a charge
upon the comities in which such courts shall be held respectively, and shall
be allowed, and paid from the court fund, in like manner as other charges
are allowed and paid from it. It shall be the duty of such stenographer to
furnish to any party to such trials, upon request, a copy of the evidence
and proceedings taken by hini on such trials, or of such part thereof as may
be required, on payment, on* behalf -of such party, of ten cents for every
one hundred words of the copy so furnished. In the surrogates' courts of
the counties of Now York and Kings, and of other counties in which a
stenographer is or shall be duly authorized to take stenographic notes of
proceedings in said courts, in which oral proofs shall be given, in case of
the death of any witness, deponent or affiant, after examination and before
the stenographer's notes of such examination shall have been transcribed,
such notes, after being fairly transcribed' and authenticated by the certifi
cate of the surrogate, shall be filed in his office, and be deemed to be the
record of the proofs so taken, without any signing thereof by such witnesses.

§ 257. [2 12. J Order of disposing of issues on the calendar.
The issues on the calendar shall be disposed of in the following order ;
unless, for the convenience of parties, or the dispatch of business, the court
shall otherwise direct :
1 . Issues of fact to be tried by a jury ;
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court ;
3. Issues of law.

§ 258. [2 13. J (Am'd 1851.) Either party may bring issue to trial.
Either party giving the notice, may bring the issue to trial, and in the
absence of the adverse party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise
direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the complaint, or
a verdict or judgment, as the case may require. A separate trial between a
plaintifff and any of the several defendants, may be allowed by the court,
■whenever, in its opinion, justice will thereby be promoted

§ 259. [214.] (Am'd 1851.) Plaintiff to furnish court until copy sum
mons, pleadings, etc.
When the issue shall be brought to' trial by the plaintifff, he shall fur
nish the court with a copy of the summons and pleadings, with the offer
of defendant, if any shall have been made. When the issue shall be
brought to trial by the defendant, and the plaintifff shall neglect or refuse
to furnish the court with a copy of the summons and pleadings and the
offer of the defendant, the same may be furnished by the defendant.
§ 260. [215.] (Am'd 1849.) General and special verdicts defined.
A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce generally upon
all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant. A
special verdict is that by which the jury rind the facts only, leaving the
judgment to the court.

§ 261. [216.] (Am'd 1849.) Verdict in action for recovery of specific
personal properly, when in action for recovery of money only, or real prop
erty, jury may render either general or special verdict ; and when court may
direct special finding. ■
In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the prop
erty have not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant by his answer
claim a return thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the property, if
their verdict bo in favor of the plaintifff ; or, if they find in favor of the
defendant, and that he is entitled to a return thereof; and may, at the same
time, assess the damages, if any are claimed iii the complaint or answer,
which the prevailing party hits sustained by reason of the detention or
taking and withholding such property.
In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real property,
I he jury, in their discretion, may render a general or special verdict. In
all other cases the court may direct the jury to rind a special verdict, in
writing, upon all or any of the issues ; and in all cases may instruct them,
if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact,
to be stated in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The
special verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk and entered upon the
minutes.

§ 262. [217.]
control.
Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the general
verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court shall give judg
ment accordingly.

§ 263. [218.] (Am'd 1851.) In actions for recovery of money only, jur%
to assess damages.
When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action for the recovery
of money, or for the defendant when a set-off for the recovery of money it
established, beyond the amount of the plaintifff's claim as established, tht
jury must also assess the amount of the recovery ; they may also, mule*
the direction of the court, assess the amount of the recovery when the cour*
give judgment for the plaintifff on the answer. If a set-off, established at
the trial, exceed the plaintifff's demand so established, judgment for the
defendant must be given for the excess ; or if it appear that the defendant
is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment must be giveu accord
ingly§ 264. [219.] (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Entry of verdict.
Upon receiving a verdict, the clerk shall make an entry in his minutes,
specifying the time and place of the trial, the names of the jurors and wit
nesses, the verdict, and either the judgment rendered thereon, or an order
that the cause be reserved for argument or further consideration. If a dif
ferent direction be not given by the court, the clerk must enter judgment
in conformity with the verdict. If an exception be taken, it may be
reduced to writing at the time, or entered in the judge's minutes and after
ward settled as provided by the rules of the court, and then stated in
writing in a case, or separately, with so much of the evidence as may be
material to the questions to be raised, but need not be sealed or signed, nor
need a bill of exceptions be made. If the exceptions be in the first
instance stated in a case, and. it be afterwards necessary to separate thom,
the separation may be made under the direction of the court, or a judge
thereof. The judge who tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a
motion to bo made on his minutes to set aside a verdict and grant a new
trial upon exceptions, or for insufficient evidence, or for excessive damages ;
but such motion in actions hereafter tried, if heard upon the minutes, can
only be heard at the same term or circuit at which the trial is had. When
such motion is heard, and decided upon the minutes of the judge, and an
appeal is taken from the decision, a case or exceptions must l>e settled in
the usual form, upon which the argument of the appeal must be had.

§ 265. [220.] (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1857.) Judgment, when to be entered ;
motion for new trial on a case or exceptions; directing verdict subject to opin
ion of court,
A motion for a new trial, on a case or exceptions, or otherwise, and an
application for judgment on a special verdict or case reserved for argument
or further consideration, must in the first instance be heard and decided at
the circuit or special teem, except that when exceptions are taken, the judge
trying the cause may, at the trial, direct them to be heard in the first in
stance at the general term, add the judgment in the meantime suspended ;
and in that case they must be there heard in the first instance, and judg
ment there given. And when upon a trial the case presents only questions
of law, the judge may direct a verdict subject to the opinion of the court
at the general term, and in that case the application for judgment must be
made at the general term. Every judgment rendered upon a verdict, taken
subject to the opinion of the court at a general term, may be reviewed by
the court of appeals in the same manner and with the like effect as if excep
tions had been duly taken at the proper time ; provided it shall appear by
the return that questions of law were involved in the rendition of the judg
ment.

§ 266. [221.] (Am'd 1849.) Trial by jury, how waived.
Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact
in actions on contract, and with the assent of the court, in other actions, in
the manner following :
1. By failing to appear at the trial ;
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk ;
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.

§ 267. [222.J (Am'd 1840, 1800, 1865,1870.; On trial by the court, judg
ment to be given in twenty days.
Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision shall be
given in writing, and shall contain a statement of the facts found, and the
conclusions of law separately ; and upon a trial of an issue of law, the de
cision shall be made in the same manner stating the conclusions of law.
Such decisions shall be filed with the clerk within twenty clays after the
court at which the trial took place. Judgment upon the decision shall be
entered accordingly, four days thereafter. If upon motion by either party,
to a general or special term of the court, it shall be made to appear that the
decision is unreasonably delayed, the court may make an order absolute for
a new trial, or may order a new trial unless the decision shall be filed by
a time to be speeitied in the order. The costs of the former trial shall
abide the event of the new trial.

§ 268. [223.] (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1860, 1867, 1869.) Exceptions, how and
to/ten taken.
For the purposes of an appeal either party may except to a decision on
a matter of law arising upon such trial within ten days after notice iu
writing of the judgment, in the same manner and with the same efl'ect as
upon a trial by jury, provided, however, that where the' decision filed under
section 267 does not authorize a final judgment, hut directs further proceed
ings before a referee or otherwise, either party may move for a new trial
at general term, and for that purpose may, within ten days after notice of
the decision being filed, except thereto, and make a case or exceptions, as
above provided in case of an appeal. And either party desiring a review
upon the evidence appearing on the trial, cither of the questions of fact or
of law, may, at any time within ten days after notice of the judgment, or
within such time as may be prescribed by the rules of the court, make a
case or exceptions in like manner as upon a trial by jury, except that the
judge, in settling the case, must briefly specify the facts found by him and
his conclusions of law. But the questions, whether of fact or of law, aris
ing upon the trial, can only be reviewed in the manner prescribed by this
section, the questions of law in every stage of the appeal, and the questions
of fact upon the appeal to the general term of the same court, as prescribed
in section 348.
No finding of facts oy the general term shall be required for the purpose
of review in the court of appeals, and if the judgment be reversed at the
general term, it shall not be deemed to have been reversed on questions of
fact, Unless so stated in the judgment of reversal ; and in that case the
questiou whether the judgment should have been reversed, either upon
questions of fact or of law, shall be open to review by the court of appeals.
And for the purposes of an appeal from a judgment rendered on a report
of a referee, or the decision of a judge on a trial without a jury, it shall
not be necessary to insert at large in the case the findings of fact or con
clusions of law of such judge or referee, or the exceptions thereto filed, but
if the same appear as part of the judgment roll they may be referred to and
used on the argument of the appeal with the same effect as though inserted
in the case.
The provisions of this section, and also of section 272, as they are
hereby amended, shall apply to appeals now pending, as well as to those
hereafter brought.

§ 269. [224.J (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Proceedings upon judgment on issue
of law.
On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an issue of law, the plaintifff mayproceed
in the manner proscribed by the first two subdivisions of section
246, upon the failure of the defendant to answer, where the summons was
personally served. If judgment be for the defendant, upon an issue of
taw, and if taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to
enable the court to complete the judgment, a reference or assessment by
jury may be ordered, as in that section provided.

§ 270. [225.] All issues referable by consent.
All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or of law, or both,
may be referred, upon the written consent of the parties.

§ 271. [226. J (Am'dl849.) When reference may be compulsorily or
dered.
Where the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the application
of either, or of its own motion, except where the investigation will require
the decision of difficult questions of law, direct a reference in the following
cases :
1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a
long account on either side ; in which case, the referees may be directed to
hear and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any specific question of
fact involved therein ; or,
2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for the informa
tion of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order
into effect ; or,
3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall arise,
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.

§ 272. [227.] (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1857, 1859, 1860.) Report to stand as
decision of the court.
The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same manner and on
similar notice as a trial by the court. They shall have the same power to
grant adjournments and to allow amendments to any pleadings, and to the
summons, as the court upon such trial, upon the same terms and with the
like effect. They shall have the same power to preserve order and punish
all violation thereof, upon such trial, and to compel the attendance of wit
nesses before them by attachment, and to punish them as for a contempt
for non-attendance, or refusal to be sworn, or testify, as is possessed by the
court. They must state the facts found and the conclusions of law sepa
rately, and their decision must be given, and may be excepted to and re
viewed in like manner, and with like effect in all respects as in cases of ap
peal under section 268 ; and they may in like manner settle a case or ex
ceptions. The report of the referees upon the whole issue shall stand as
the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same
manner as if the action had been tried by the court. When the reference
is to report the facts, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict.
When the case on appeal shall have been heard and decided at the gen
eral term, upon the report of the referee and exceptions, without a case
containing the evidence, the decision may be reviewed in like manner on
appeal to the court of appeals. If the judgment be reversed at the general
term, and a new trial ordered, it shall not be deemed to have been reversed
on questions of fact, unless so stated in the judgment of reversal ; and in
that case the question whether the judgment should have been reversed,
either upon questions of fact or of law, shall be open to review in the court
of appeals.

§ 273. [228.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862, 1863, 1866.) Referees, how chosen.
In all cases of reference the parties as to whom issues are formed in the
action (except when the defendant is an infant or an absentee) may agree in
writing upon a person or persons, not exceeding three, and a reference shall
be ordered to him or them, and to no other person or persons. And if
such parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not
more than three, who shall be free from exception. And no person shall
be appointed referee to whom all parties in the action shall object, except
in actions for divorce. And no judge or justice of any court shall sit as ref
eree in any action pending in the court of which he is judge or justice, and
not already referred, unless the parties otherwise stipulate. The referee or
referees shall make and deliver a report within sixty days from the time t;ie
action shall be finally submitted ; and in default thereof, and before the re
port is delivered, either party may serve notice upon the opposite party
that he elects to end the reference ; and thereupon the action shall pro
ceed as though no reference had been ordered, and the referees shall not,
in such case„ be entitled to any fees.

§ 274. [230.] (Ain'd 1849, 1852, 1862.) Judgment may be for or gainst
ttap of the parties.
Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several plaintifffs,
and for or against one or more of several defendants, and it may determine
the ultimate rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves, and
it may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to which he may be
entitled. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its dis
cretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to
proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment may be proper.
The court may also dismiss the complaint with costs, in favor of one or
more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the plaintifff
to serve the summons on other defendants, or to proceed in the cause
against the defendant or defendants served.
In an action brought by or against a married woman, judgment may be
given against her as well for costs as for damages, or both for such costs
and for such damages, in the same manner as against other persons, to bo
levied and collected of her separate estate and not otherwise. And in any
proceeding to enforce such judgment, the supreme court shall have jurisdic
tion, though the amount be less than one hundred dollars.

§ 275. [231.] The relief to be awarded to the plaintifff.
The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there bo uo answer, cannot exceed
that which he shall have demanded in his complaint ; but in any other case,
the court may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the
complaint and embraced within the issue.

§ 276. [232.] Bale of damages, when damages are recoverable.
Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff may claim and recover,
if he show himself entitled thereto, any rate of damages, which he might
have heretofore recovered, for the same cause of action.

§ 277. Judgment in action for recovery of personal properly.
In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judgment
for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or for the recovery of posses
sion, or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and of dama
ges for the detention. If the property have been delivered to the plaintifff,
and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may
be for a return of the property, or the value thereof, in case a return can
not be had, and damages for taking and withholding the same.

§ 278. [233.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852.) Judgment upon issue of Imo or fact,
to be upon direction of a single judge, or on report of referees, subject to re
view at general term.
Judgment upon an issue of law, or of fact, or upon confession, or upon
failure to answer (except where the clerk is authorized to enter the same by
the first subdivision of section 246, and by section 384, and except where
it may be given at the general term as provided in section 265), shall, in
the first instance, be entered upon the direction of a single judge, or re
port of referees, subject to review at the general term, on the demand of
either party, as herein provided.

§ 279. [234.] Clerk to keep a judgment book.
The clerk shall keep, among the records of the court, a hook for tha
entry of judgments, to be called the "judgment book."
§ 280. [235.] Judgment to be entered into judgment book.
The judgment shall be entered in the judgment book, and shall specify
clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action.

§ 281. [236.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852.) Judgment roll.
Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a judgment roll, the clerk,
immediately after entering the judgment, shall attach together and file the
following papers, .which shall constitute the judgment roll :
1. In case the complaint be not answered l>y any defendant, the sum
mons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of. service, and that no answer
has been received, the report, if any, and a copy of the judgment.
2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings or copies thereof, and a
copy of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the oiler of the defendant,
exceptions, case, and all orders and papers in any way involving the merits,
and necessarily affecting the judgment.

§ 282. [237.] (Am'd 1851, 1867, 1869.) Judgment, in what cases, and how
to be docketed.
Upon filing a judgment roH upon a judgment directing, in whole or in
part, the payment of money, it may be docketed with the clerk of the
county where the judgment roll was filed, and in any other county upon
the filing, with the clerk thereof, a transcript of the original " docket," and
shall be a lien on the real property, in the county where the same is
docketed, of every person against whom any such judgment shall be
rendered, and which' he may have at the time of the docketing thereof in
the county in which such real property is situated, or which he shall acquire
at any time thereafter, for ten years from the time of docketing the same in
the county where the judgment roll was filed. But the time during which
the party recovering or owing such judgment shall be or shall have been
restrained from proceeding thereon by any order of injunction, or other
order, or by the operation of any appeal, shall not constitute any part of
the ten years aforesaid, as against the defendant in such judgment, or the
party obtaining such orders or making such appeal, or any other person
who is not a purchaser, creditor or mortgagee in good faith. But whenever
an appeal from any judgment shall be pending, and the undertaking
"requisite to stay execution on such judgment shall have been given, the
court in which such judgment was recovered may, on special motion, after
notice to the person owning such judgment, or to his attorney, and to the
sureties to such undertaking, on such terms as such court shall see fit, by
order, exempt from the lien of such judgment the whole of the real
property upon which said judgment is a lien, or a specific portion thereof
to be described in such order, and direct an entry to be made by the clerk
on the docket of such judgment that the same is " secured on appeal,"
except that in case only a specific portion of such property is exempted
from such lien, such order shall direct an entry to be made on such docket
that the same is " secured on appeal as per order of the court, dated —,"
specifying the date of such order ; and thereupon such judgment shall
cease during the pendency of such appeal to be a lien upon the property
so exempted as against purchasers and mortgagees in good faith.

§ 283. [238.] (Am'd 1849, 1860.) Execution within five years, of course,
rt.s jrrescribed by this title.
Writs of execution for the enforcement of judgments as now used sire
modified in conformity to this title, and the party in whose favor judgment
has been heretofore or shall hereafter he given, and, in case of his death,
his personal representatives, duly appointed, may, at any time within rive
years after the entry of judgment, proceed to enforce the same, as pre
scribed by this title.

§ 284. [239.] (Am'd 1851, 1858.) After five years, to be issued only by
leave of court ; leave, how obtained ; execution on judgment of justices' or
other inferior courts, when docketed, how issued.
After a lapse of five years froni the eiitry of judgment an execution can
be issued only by leave of the court upon motion, with personal notice to
the adverse party, unless he be absent or non-resident, or cannot be fouud
to make such service, in which case such service may be made by publica
tion, or in such other manner as the court shall direct. Such leave shall
not be given unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other sat
isfactory proof, that the judgment or some part thereof remains unsatisfied
and due.. But the leave shall not be necessary when execution has been
issued on the judgment within the five years, and returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part.
When judgment shall have been rendered in a court of justice of the
peace, or in a justice's or other interior court in a city and docketed in
the office of the clerk of the county, the application for leave to issue exe
cution must be to the county court of the county where the judgment was
rendered, or in the city and county of New York to the court of common
pleas of that city and county.

§ 285. [240.J (Am'd 1849.) Oilier judgments, how enforced.
Where a judgment requires the payment of money or the delivery of
real or personal property, the same may be enforced in those respects by
execution as provided in this title. Where it requires the performance of
any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the
party against whom it is given, or the person or officer who is required
thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced.
If he refuse, he may be punished by the court as for a contempt.

§ 286. [241.] (Am'dl849.) The different kinds of execution.
There shall be three kinds of execution : one against the property of
the judgment debtor, another against his person, and the third for the de
livery of the possession of real or personal property, or such delivery with
damages for withholding the same. They shall be deemed the process of
the court, but they need not be sealed nor subscribed, except as prescribed
in section 289.
§ 287. [242.] (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1862.) To w/tat counties execution may be
issued.
When the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it
may be issued to the sheriff of any county where judgment is docketed.
When it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it must be is
sued to the sheriff of the county where the property or some part thereof
is situated. Executions may be issued at the same time to different counties.
Real property adjudged to be sold must be sold in the county where it lies,
by the sheriff of the county, or by a referee appointed by the court for
that purpose ; and thereupon the sheriff or referee must execute a convey
ance to the purchaser, which conveyance shall be effectual to pass the
rights and interest of the parties adjudged to be sold. *
An execution may issue against a married woman, and it shall direct
the levy and collection of the amount of the judgment against her from her
separate property, and not otherwise.

§ 288. [243.] (Am'd 1849, 1862, 1870.) Execution against the person, in
what cases and when.
If the action be one in which the defendant might, have been arrested,
as provided in section 179 and section 181, an execution against the person
of the judgment debtor may be issued to any county within the jurisdiction
of the court, after the return of an execution against his property unsatisfied
in whole or in part. But no execution shall issue against the person of a
judgment debtor, unless an order of arrest has been served, as in this act
provided, or unless the complaint contains a statement of facts showing one
or more of the causes of arrest required by section 179.
If any defendant be in actual custody under an order of arrest, and the
plaintifff shall neglect to enter judgment in the action within one month
after it is in his power to do so, or shall neglect to issue execution against
the person of such defendant, within three months after the entry of judg
ment, such defendant may, on his motion, be discharged from custody by
the court in which such action shall have been commenced, unless good
cause to the contrary be shown ; and, after being so discharged, such de
fendant shall not be arrested upon any execution issued in such action.

§ 289. [244.] (Am'd 1849.) Form of the execution.
The execution must be directed to the sheriff, or coroner when the
sheriff is a party, or interested, subscribed by the party issuing it, or his
attorney, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court, the
county where the judgment-roll or transcript is filed, the names of the
parties, the amount of the judgment, if it be for money, and the amount
actually due thereon, and the time of docketing in the county to which the
execution is issued, and shall require the officer substantially as follows :
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall require
the officer to satisfy the judgment out of the personal property of such
debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, out of the real
property belonging to him on the day when the judgment was docketed in
the county, or at any time thereafter ;
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees,
it shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment out of such property ;

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require
the officer to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the jail of the county,
until he shall pay the judgment or be discharged according to law ;
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal prop
erty, it shall require the officer to deliver the possession of the same, par
ticularly describing it, to the party entitled . thereto, and may, at the same
time, require the officer to satisfy any costs, damages, or rents and profits
recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property of the party
against whom it was rendered, and the value of the property for which the
judgment was recovered to be specified therein ; if a delivery thereof can
not be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out
of the real property belonging to him on the day when the judgment was*
docketed, or at any time thereafter, and shall, in that respect, be deemed an
execution against property.
§ 290. [245.] (Am'd 1849.) To be returnable in sixty days.
The execution shall be returnable, within sixty days after its receipt by
the officer, to the clerk with whom the record of judgment is filed.

§ 291. [246.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Existing laws relating to executions
continued, until otherwise provided.
Until otherwise provided by the legislature, the existing provisions of
law not in conflict with this chapter, relating to executions, and their inci
dents, the property liable to sale on execution, the sale and redemption
thereof, the powers and rights of officers, their duties thereon, and the pro
ceedings to enforce those duties, and the liabilities of their sureties, shall
apply to the executions prescribed by this chapter


§ 292. [247.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1858, 1859, 1863, 1867.) When execution
returned unsatisfied, order for discovery of property allowed ; also when
judgment debtor refuses to apply property to satisfy judgment ; manner of
proceeding to examine judgment debtor.
When an execution against property of the judgment debtor, or any one
of sev.eral debtors in the same judgment, issued to the sheriff of the county
where he resides or has a place of business, or, if he do not reside in the
State, to the sheriff of the county where a judgment roll, or a transcript
of a justice's judgment for twenty-five dollars or upward, exclusive of costs,
is filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment creditor,
at any time after such return made, is entitled to an order from a judge of
the court, or a county judge of the county to which the execution was
issued, or a judge of the court of common pleas for the city and county of
New York, when the execution was issued to such city and county, requiring
such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property before
such judge, at a time and place specified in the order, within the county to
which the execution was issued. But, in case of an order made by a justice
of the supreme court, all subsequent proceedings shall be had before .some
justice in the judicial district where the judgment debtor resides, to be
specified in the order. After the issuing of an execution against property,
and upon proof, by affidavit of a party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of
the .court, or a judge thereof, or county judge, or any judge of the court
of common pleas for the city and county of New York, that any judgment
debtor, residing in the county where such judge or officer resides, has prop
erty which he unjustly refuses to apply toward the satisfaction of the judg
ment, such court or judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor
to appear at a specified time and place, to answer concerning the samq : and
such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the property
of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment as are pro
vided upon the return of an execution. Whenever it shall satisfactorily
appear, by affidavit, to a justice of the supreme court, that such county
judge, or jadge of said court of common pleas, is incapacitated from acting
in any of the proceedings whatever, herein authorized, from any cause or
causes whatsoever, such justice of the supreme court shall have the same
powers and authority, in all cases whatever, as are herein conferred upon
hhn as to cases of judgments in the supreme court. On an examination
under this section, either party may examine witnesses in his behalf, and the
judgment debtor may be examined in the same manner as a witness.
Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the
the judge may, upon proof, by affidavit or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that
there is danger of the debtor's leaving the State, or concealing himself, and
that there is reason to believe he has property which he unjustly refuses to
apply to such judgment, issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county
where such debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before such judge.
Upon being brought before the judge, he may be examined on oath, and if
it then appears that there is danger of the debtor's leaving the State, and
that he has property which he has unjustly refused to apply to such judg
ment, ordered to enter into an undertaking with one or more sureties, that
he will from time to time attend before the judge as he shall direct, and
that he will not, during the pendency of the proceedings, dispose of any
portion of his property, not exempt from execution. In default of enter
ing into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison by warrant of
the judge as for a contempt. No person shall, on examination pursuant to
this chapter, be excused from answering any question on the ground that
his examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a fraud ; but
his answer shall not be used as evidence against him in any criminal pro
ceeding or prosecution. Nor shall he be excused from answering any ques
tion on the ground that he has, before the examination, executed any con
veyance, assignment or transfer of his property for any purpose, but his
answer shall not be used as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding
or prosecution.

§ 293. [248.] (Am'd 1849.) Any debtor may pay execution against his
(redilor.
After the issuing of execution against property, any person indebted
to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount of his debt, or
so much thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sher
iff's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.

§ 294. [249.] (Am'd 1849, 1863.) Examination of debtors of judgment
debtor, or of those having properly belonging to him.
After the issuing or return of an execution against property of the
judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment,
and upon an affidavit that any person or corporation has property of such
judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding ten dollars,
the judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation or any
officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place, and
answer concerning the same. The judge may also, in his discretion, require
notice of such proceeding to be given to any party to the action, in such
manner as may seem to him proper.
The proceedings mentioned in this section, and in section 292, may be
taken upon the return of an execution unsatisfied, issued upon a judgment
recovered in an action against joint debtors, in which some of the defend
ants have not been served with the summons by which said action was com
menced, so far as relates to the joint property of such debtors ; and all
•actions by creditors, to obtain satisfaction of judgments out of the property
of joint debtors, are maintainable in the like manner and to the like effect.
These provisions shall apply to all proceedings and actions now pending,
and not actually terminated by any final judgment or decree.

§ 295. [250.] Witness required to testify.
Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on any proceedings
under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.
§ 296. [251.] (Am'd 1849.) Compelling party or witness to attend;
examination, when to be on oath.
The party or witness may be required to attend before the judge or
before a referee appointed by the court or judge ; if before a referee, the
examination shall be taken by the referee, and certified to the judge. All
examinations and answers before a judge or referee, under this chapter,
shall be on oath, except that when a corporation answers, the answer shall
be on the oath of an officer thereof.

§ 297. [252.J (Am'dl851.) J udfje may order property to be applied- on
execution.
The judge may order any property of the judgment debtor, not exempt
from execution, in the hands either of himself or any other person, or due
to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judg
ment, except that the earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at
any time within sixty days next preceding the order, cannot be so applied,
when it is made to appear by the debtor's affidavit, or otherwise, that such
earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly
by his labor.

§ 298. [253.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862, 1863.) Judge may appoint receiver,
and prohibit transfer, etc., of property.
The judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the property of the
judgment debtor, in the same manner, and with the like authority, as if
the appointment was made by the court according to section 244. But,
before the appointment of such receiver, the judge shall ascertain, if practicable,
by the oath of the party, or otherwise, whether any other supple
mentary proceedings are pending against the judgment debtor, and, if such
proceedings are so pending, the plaintifff therein shall have notice to appear
before him, and shall likewise have notice of all subsequent proceedings in
relation to said receivership. No more than one receiver of the property
of a judgment debtor shall be appointed. The judge may also, by order,
forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment
debtor not exempt from execution, and any interference therewith.
Whenever the judge shall grant an order for the appointment of a re
ceiver of the property of the judgment debtor, the same shall be filed in
the office of the clerk of the county where the judgment roll in the action,
or transcript from justice's judgment, upon which the proceedings are
taken, is filed ; and the said clerk shall record the order in a book to be
kept for that purpose in his office, to be called " book of orders appointing
receivers of judgment debtors," and shall note the time of the filing of said
order therein. A certified copy of said order shall be delivered to the
receiver named therein, and he shall be vested with the property and effects
of the judgment debtor from the time of the filing and recording of the
order as aforesaid. The receiver of the judgment debtor shall be subject
to the direction and control of the court in which the judgment was
obtained, upon which the proceedings are founded ; or, if the judgment is
upon a transcript from justice's court filed in county clerk's office, then he
shall be subject to the direction and control of the county court.
But, before he shall be veslcd with any real property of such judgment
debtor, a certified copy of said ol der shall also be filed and recorded in the
office of the clerk of the county in which any real estate of such judgment
debtor sought to be affected by such order is situated, and also in the office
of the clerk of the county in which such judgment debtor resides.

§ 299. [254.] (Am'd 1849.) Proceedings upon claim of another party to
property, or on denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor. "
If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have property of
the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest in the property,
adverse to him, or denies the debt, such interest or debt shall be recovera
ble only in an action against such person or corporation by the receiver ;
but the judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such
property or interest, till a sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver to
commence the action, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution ;
but such order may be modified or dissolved, by the judge granting the
same, at any time, on such security as he shall direct.

§ 300. [255. J (Am'd 1849, 1857.) Reference by judge. .
The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee, agreed
upon by the parties or appointed by him, to report the evidence or the
facts, and may, in his discretion, appoint such referee in the first order or
at any time.
§ 301. [256.] (Am'd 1849.) Costs of proceedings.
The judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to any party so
examined, whether a party to the action or not, witnesses' fees and dis
bursements! and a fixed sum in addition, not exceeding thirty dollars, as
costs.

§ 302. [257. j (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Disobedience of order, how punished.
If any person, party or witness disobey an order of the judge or referee
duly served, such person, party or witness may be punished by the judge
as for a contempt. And in all cases of commitment under this chapter, or
the act to abolish imprisonment for debt, the person committed may, in -case
of inability to perform the act required, or to endure the imprisonment, be
discharged from imprisonment, by the court or judge committing him, or
the court in which the judgment was rendered, on such terms as may be
just.

§ 303. [258.] Fee bill abolished ; allowances given, termed costs.
All statutes establishing or regulating the costs or fees of attorneys,
solicitors and counsel in civil actions, and all existing rules and provisions
of law, restricting or controlling the right of a party to agree with an
attorney, solicitor or counsel, for his compensation, are repealed ; and here
after the measure of such compensation shall be left to the agreement,
express or implied, of the parties. But there may be allowed to the pre
vailing party, upon the judgment, certain sums, by way of indemnity, for
his expenses in the action ; which allowances are in this act termed costs.

§ 304. [259.] (Am'd 1849, 1862.) Wlien allowed, of course, to plaintifff.
Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the plaintifff, upon a recovery, in
the following cases :
1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a claim of
title to real property arises on the pleadings, or is certified by the court to
have come in question at the trial ;
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property ;
3. In the actions of which a court of justice of the peace has no jurisdiction ;
4. In action for the recovery of money, where the plaintifff shall recover
fifty dollars ; but in an action for assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel,
slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction, if the
plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he shall recover no more
costs than damages. And in an action to recover the possession of. per
sonal property, if the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he
shall recover no more costs than damages, unless he recovers also property
the value of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars, or the pos
session of property be adjudged to him, the value of which, with the dam
ages, amounts to fifty dollars ; such value must be determined by the jury,
court or referee by whom the action is tried. When several actions shall
be brought on one bond, recognizance, promissory note, bill of exchange,
or other instrument in writing, or in any other case, for the same cause of
action, against several parties who might have been joined as defendants
in the same action, no costs other than disbursements shall be allowed to
the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which shall be at his elec
tion, provided that the party or parties proceeded against in such other
action or actions shall, at the time of the commencement of the previous
action or actions, have been within this State, and not secreted.

§ 306. [261.] (Am'd 1849, 1851). When allowed to either party, in the
discretion of the court.
In other actions costs may be allowed or not, in the discretion of the
court.
In all actions where there are several defendants, not united in interest,
and making separate defenses by separate answers, and the plaintifff fails to
recover judgment against all, the court may award costs to such of the de
fendants as have judgineut in their favor, or any of them.
In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in the discretion
of the court :
1. When a new trial shall be ordered ;
2. When a judgment shall be affirmed in part and reversed in part

§ 307- [262.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1857, 1858, 1859, 1862, 1863, 1864, 1865,
1866, 1867.) Amount of costs allowed.
When allowed, costs shall he as follows :
1. To the plaintifff", for all proceedings before notice of trial in actions
where judgment f<»r failure to answer can be taken without application to
the court, fifteen dollars ; where judgment can only be taken on such
application, twenty-five dollars ; for all proceedings after notice of and
before trial, fifteen dollars ; for each additional defendant served with pro
cess, not exceeding ten, two dollars, and for each necessary defendant in
excess of that number, served with process, one dollar ;
2. To the defendant, for all proceedings before notice of trial, ten dol
lars ; and for all proceedings after notice of and before trial, fifteen
dollars ;
3. To either party, where a new trial shall be had, for all proceedings
after the granting of and before such new trial, twenty-five dollars ; for
attending upon and taking the deposition of a witness conditionally, or at
tending to perpetuate his testimony, ten dollars ; for drawing interrogato
ries to annex to a commission for the taking of testimony, ten dollars ; for
attending the examination of a party before trial, ten dollars; for making
and serving a case, or case containing exceptions, twenty dollars, except
that, where the case shall necessarily contain more than fifty folios, there
shall be allowed ten dollars in addition thereto ; and for making and serv
ing amendments thereto, ten dollars. To the plaintifff, for the appointment
of a guardian of an infant defendant, ten dollars ; but no more than ten
dollars shall be allowed for the appointment of guardians in any one action.
To the plaintifff, for procuring an order of injunction, ten dollars ;
4. To either party for the trial of an issue of law, twenty dollars; for
every trial of an issue of fact, thirty dollars ; and where the trial shall
necessarily occupy more than two days, ten dollars in addition thereto ;
5. To either party on appeal, except in the court of appeals and except
appeals in the cases mentioned in subdivisions one, three, four and five of
section 349, and except in cases mentioned in the second paragraph of sec
tion 344, before argument, twenty dollars ; for argument, forty dollars ;
and the same costs shall be allowed to either party before argument and
for argument on application for judgment, upon special verdict, or upon
verdict subject to the opinion of the court, or for a new trial on a case
made, and in cases where exceptions are ordered to be heard in the first
instance at a general term, under the provisions of section 265 ;
6. To either party, on appeal to the court of appeals, before argument,
thirty dollars ; for argument, sixty dollars ; and when a judgment is
affirmed, the court may, in its discretion, also award damages for the delay,,
not exceeding ten per cent on the amount of the judgment ; for preparing
and serving a case, or case containing exceptions, in appeals to the court of
appeals, twenty dollars ;
7. To either party, for every circuit or term, not exceeding live circuits,
and five special and five general terms, at which the cause is necessarily on
the calendar and is not tried, or is postponed by order of the court, ten
dollars ; and for every term not exceeding ten excluding the term at which
the cause is argued in the court of appeals ten dollars ; but in an action
hereafter brought to recover dower, before admeasurement of real prop
erty aliened by the husband, the plaintifff shall not recover costs unless it
appear that the dower was demanded before the commencement of the
aetiou and was refused
The same costs shall be allowed to the plaintifff iu proceedings under
chapter two, title twelve, of the second part of this Code (sections 375 to
381) as upon the commencement of an action.

§ 308. [263.] (Am'd 1849, 1857, 1862.) Allowance in addition of a per
centage on recovery or claim.
In addition to these allowances there shall be allowed to the plaintifff,
upon the recovery of judgment by him, in any action for the partition of
real property, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or in any action in
which a warrant of attachment has been issued, or for an adjudication upon
a will or other instrument in writing, and in proceedings to compel the
determination of claims to real property, the sum of ten per cent on the
recovery, as in the next section prescribed for any amount not exceeding
two hundred dollars ; an additional sum of five per cent for any additional
amount not exceeding four hundred dollars ; and an additional sum of two
per cent for any additional amount not exceeding one thousand dollars.
And in the actions above named, if the mime shall be settled before judg
ment therein, like allowances upon the amount paid or secured upon such
settlement, at one-half the rates above specified

§ 309. [264.] (Am'd 1849, 1857, 1858, 1859, 1862, 1865. 1870.) PercenlMje,
how computed.
These rates shall be estimated upon the value of the property claimed
or attached, or affected by the adjudication upon the will or other instru
ment, or sought to be partitioned, or the amount found due or unpaid upon
the mortgage in an action for foreclosure. And whenever it shall be ne
cessary to apply to the court for an order enforcing the payment of an in
stallment falling due, after judgment, in an action for foreclosure, the
plaintifff shall be entitled to the rate of allowance in the last section pre
scribed, but to no more in the aggregate than if the whole amount of the
mortgage had been due when judgment was entered. Such amount of
value must be determined by the court, or by the commissioners in case of
actual partitions. In difficult or extraordinary cases, where a defense has
been interposed, or in such cases where a trial has been had, and in actions
or proceedings for the partition of real estate, the court may also, in its dis
cretion, make a further allowance to any party, not exceeding five per
cent upon the amount of the recovery or claim, or subject-matter involved.
And in an action for the foreclosure of a mortgage, the court may make
a like allowance, not exceeding two and one-half per cent.

§ 310. [265.] Interest on report or verdict, when allowed.
When the judgment is for the recovery of money, interest from the time
of the verdict or report until judgment be finally entered, shall be com
puted by the clerk, and added to the costs of the party entitled thereto.

§ 311. [266.] (Am'd 1849, 1857, 1862.) Costs, hoio to be inserted in judg
ment.
The clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment, on the application of
the prevailing party, upon five days' notice to the other, except when the
attorneys reside in the same city, village or town, and then upon two days'
notice, the sum of the allowances for costs as provided by this Code, the
necessary disbursements including the fees of officers allowed by law, the
fees of witnesses, the reasonable compensation of commissioners in taking
depositions, the fees of referees and the expense of printing the papers
for any hearing when required by a rule of the court. The disburse
ments shall be stated in detail and verified by affidavit. A copy of the
items of the costs and disbursements shall be served, with a notice of
adjustment.
Whenever it shall be necessary to adjust costs in any interlocutory pro
ceeding in an action, or in any special proceedings, the same shall be
adjusted by the judge before whom the same may be heard, or the court
before which the same may be decided or pending, or in such other manner
as the judge or court may direct.

§ 313. [268.] Referees' fees.
The fees of referees shall be three dollars to each for every day spent
in the business of the reference ; but the parties may agree in writing upon
any other rate of compensation.
§ 314. [269. j Costs on postponement of trial.
When an application shall be made, to a court or referees, to postpone
a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars
besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed, as the condition of granting
the postponement.

§ 815- [270.] (Am'd 1849, 1857.) Oosts on a motion.
Costs may be allowed on a motion, in the discretion of the court or
judge, not exceeding ten dollars, and may be absolute, or directed to abide
the event of the action.

§ 5316. Costs against infant ■plaintifff.
When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintifff, the guardian by
whom he appeared in the action shall be responsible therefore, and payment
thereof may be enforced by attachment.
§ 313. (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Costs in an action by or against an executor or
administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
statute to sue.
In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trus
tee of an express trust, or u person expressly authorized by statute, costs
shall he recovered as in an action by and against a person prosecuting or
defending in his own right, but such costs shall be chargeable only ;.pon,
or collected of, the estate, fund or party represented, unless the court shall
direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant, pcrsrually, for
mismanagement or bad faith in such action or defense. But this section
hall not be construed to allow costs against executors or administrators,
where they are now exempted therefrom, by section 41 of title 3, chapter
6, of the second part of the Revised Statutes ; and whenever any claim
against a deceased person shall be referred pursuant to the provisions of
the Revised Statutes, the prevailing party shall he entitled to recover the
fees of referees and witnesses and other necessary disbursements, to be
taxed according to law. And the court may, in its discretion, in the cases
mentioned in this section, require the plaintifff to give security for costs.

§ 318- (Am'd 1862.) Costs in review of a decision of an inferior court
in a special proceeding.
When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a special pro
ceeding, including appeals from surrogates' courts, shall be brought before
the supreme court for review, such proceedings shall, for all purposes of
costs, be deemed an action at issue on a question of law, from the time the
same shall be brought into the supreme court, and costs thereon shall be
awarded and collected in such manner as the court shall direct, according
to the nature of the case.

§ 319. Costs in actions by the people.
In all civil actions prosecuted in the name of the people of this State,
by an officer duly authorized for that purpose, the people shall be liable
for costs in the same cases, and to the same extent, as private parties. If a
private person lie joined with the people as plaintifff, he shall be liable in
the first instance for the defendant's costs, which shall not be recovered of
the people till after the execution issued therefore against such private
party and returned unsatisfied.

§ 320- Costs in actions by the people.
In an action prosecuted in the name of the people of this State, for the
recovery of money or property, or to establish a right or claim, for the
benefit of any county, city, town, village, corporation or person, costs
awarded against the plaintifff shall be a charge against the party for whose
benefit the action was prosecuted, and not against the people.

§ 321. Costs against assignee of cause of action, after action brought.
In actions, in which the cause of action shall, by assignment after the
commencement of the action, or in any other manner, become the property of
a person not a party to the action, such person shall be liable for the costs,
in the same manner as if he were a party, and payment thereof may be en
forced by attachment.

§ 322. Costs on a settlement.
Upon the settlement, before judgment, of any action mentioned in sec
tion 304, no greater sum shall be demanded from the defendant as costs,
than at the rates prescribed by that section.

§ 323. [271. J Writs of error abolished, and appeals substituted.
Writs of error in civil actions, as they have heretofore existed, are
abolished, and the only mode of reviewing a judgment or order in a civil
action shall be that prescribed by this title.
§ 324. [272.J Orders made out of spurt, how vacated or modified.
An order made out of court, without notice to the adverse party, may
be vacated or modified, without notice, by the judge w.o made it, or may
be vacated or modified, on notice, in the manner in which other motions
are made.


§ 325. [273. j Who may appeal.
Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in this title.

§ 326. [274.] Parties, how designated on appeal.
The party appealing shall be known as the appellant, and the adverse
party as the respondent. But the title of the action shall not be changed
in consequence of the appeal.

§ 327. [275.] (Am'd 1849.) Appeal, how made.
An appeal must be made by the service of a notice in writing on the
adverse party, and on the clerk with .whom the judgment or order appealed
from is entered, stating the appeal from the same, or some specified part
thereof. When a party shall give, in good faith, notice of appeal from a
judgment or order, and shall omit, through mistake, to do any other act
necessary to perfect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the court may per
mit an amendment on such terms as may be just.

§ 328. [276.] (Am'd 1858, 1863.) Clerk to transmit papers to appellate
court.
If the appellant shall not, within twenty days after his appeal is per
fected, cause a certified copy of the notice of appeal and of the judgment
roll, or, if the appeal he from an order or any part thereof, a certified copy
of such order and the papers upon which the order was granted, to be
transmitted to the- appellate court by the clerk with whom the notice of
appeal is filed, the respondent may cause such certified copy to be trans
mitted by such clerk to the appellate court and recover the expenses
thereof, as a disbursement on such appeal in case the judgment or order
appealed from shall be in whole or in part affirmed, and this provision
shall apply to all appeals heretofore taken where the appeal has not been
dismissed in the manner provided by the rules of the appellate court.

§ 329. [277.] Intermediate orders affecting the judgment may be re
viewed on the appeal.
Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review any interme
diate order, involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the judgment.

§ 330. [278.] (Am'd 1849.) Judgment on appeal.
Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court may re
verse, affirm or modify the judgment or order appealed from in the respect
mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parties, and
may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment is
reversed or modified, the appellate court may make complete restitution of
all property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment.

§ 381. [279.] (Am'd 1857, 1858.) Certain appeals to be within two years.
The appeal to the court of appeals, under subdivision 2 of section 11 of
this Code, must be taken within sixty days after written notice of the order
shall have been given to the party appealing ; every other appeal allowed
by the second and third chapters of this title must be taken within two
years after the judgment shall be perfected, by tiling the judgment roll.

§382. [280.] (Am'd 1849.) Other appeals within thirty days.
The appeal allowed by the fourth chapter of this title must be taken
within thirty days after written notice of the judgment or order shall have
been given to the party appealing.

§ 333. [282.J (Am'd 1857.) In what cases.
19, Laws 1857, ch. 723. j An appeal may he taken to the court of
appeals in the cases mentioned in section 11. When any of the courts
mentioned therein shall, at general term, render judgment upon a verdict
taken subject to the opinion of the court, the questions or conclusions of
law, together with a concise statement of the facts upon which they arose,
shall he prepared by and under the direction of the court, and shall be hied
with the judgment roll, and be deemed a part thrreof, for the purposes of
a review in the court of appeals. 20.] The provisions of the last pre
ceding section shall apply to any judgment therein mentioned that has
been heretofore rendered, and upon which an appeal has been brought and
is now pending, or upon which an appeal shall hereafter be brought.
When the return has already been filed with the clerk of the court of ap
peals, such statement shall be filed with him, and be deemed a part of such
return.
§ 334. [283. (Am'd 1805.) On any appeal security must be given to
pay costs and damages, not exceeding $500, or deposit made, unless waived.
To render an appeul effectual for any purpose, a written undertaking
must be executed on the part of the appellant, liy at least two sureties, to
the effect that the appellant will pay all costs and damages which may be
awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding rive hundred dollars, or
that sum must be deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment or
order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. JSuch undertak
ing or deposit may be waived by a written consent on the part of the
respondent.

§ 335. [284.] (Am'd 1849, 1862, 1863.) On judgment for money ; security
to May execution.
If the appeal be from a judgment directing the payment of money, it
shall not stay the execution of the judgment, unless a written undertaking
be executed on the part of the appellant, 1)}' at least two sureties, to the.
effect, that, if the judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, be affirmed,
or the appeal he dismissed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to
be paid by the judgment, or the part of such amount as to which the judg
ment shall be affirmed, if it be affirmed only in part, and all damages which
shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. Whenever it shall
be made satisfactorily to appear to the court that since the execution of the
undertaking the sureties have become insolvent, the court may, by rule or
order, require the appellant to execute, file and serve a new undertaking
as above ; and, in case of neglect to execute such undertaking within twenty
days after the service of a copy of the rule or order requiring such new
undertaking, the appeal may, on motion to the court, be dismissed, with
costs. Whenever it shall be necessary for a party to any action or pro
ceeding to give a bond or an undertaking, with surety or sureties, he may
in lieu thereof deposit with the officer or into court, as the case may require,
money, to the amount for which such bond or undertaking is to be given.
The court in which such action or proceeding is pending may direct what
disposition shall be made of such money pending the action or proceeding.
In any case where, by this section, the money is to be deposited with an
officer, a judge of the court, at special term or at chambers, upon the appli
cation of either party, may, before such deposit is made, order it to be
deposited in court instead of with such officer ; and a deposit made pur
suant to such order shall be of the same effect as if made with such officer.

§ 336. [285.] (Am'd 1849.) If judgment be to deliver documents, they
must be deposited.
It" the judgment appealed from direct the assignment or delivery of
documents, or personal property, the execution of the judgment shall not
be stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or delivered
be brought into court or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver
as the court shall appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into, on tbe
part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such amount as the
court, or a judge thereof, or county judge, shall direct, to the effect that
the appellant will obey the order of the appellate court, upon the appeal.

§ 337. [28(5.] If to execute conveyance, it must be executed and deposited.
If the judgment appealed from, direct the execution of a conveyance or
other instrument, the execution of the judgment shall not be stayed by the
appeal, until the instrument shall have been executed and deposited with
the clerk with whom the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of the
appellate court.

§ 338. [287.] Security when judgment is to deliver property, or for a
sale of mortgaged premises.
If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or delivery of possession
of real property, the execution of the same shall not be stayed unless a
written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with two
sureties, to the effect that during the possession of such property by the
appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon,
and that, if the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and
occupation of the property, from the time of the appeal until the delivery
of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum to be
fixed by a judge of the court by which judgment was rendered, and which
shall be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale
of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the
"sale, the undertaking shall also provide for the payment of such deficiency.

§ 339. [288.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Star/ of proceedings upon security
given.
Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided by sections 335, 336, 337
and 338, it stays all further proceedings in the court below, upon the judg
ment appealed from or upon the matter embraced therein ; but the court
below may proceed upon any other matter included in the action, and not
affected by the judgment appealed from. And the court below mayt in its
discretion, dispense with or limit the security required by sections 335, 336
and 338, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee or other
person acting in another's right ; and may also limit such security to an
amount not less than fifty thousand dollars, in the cases mentioned in sec
tions 336, 337, 338, where it would otherwise, according to those sections,
exceed that sum.

§ 340. [289.J (Am'dl849.) Undertakings maybe in one instrument or
several.
The undertakings prescribed by sections 334, 335, 336 and 338, may be
in one instrument or several, at the option of the appellant ; and a copy,
including the names and residence of the sureties, must be served on the
adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless a deposit is made as pro
vided in section 334, and notice thereof given.

§ 341. [290. j (Am'd 1849.) Security to be approved and to justify.
An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect unless it be accom
panied by the affidavit of the sureties that they are each worth double the
amount specified therein. The respondent may, however, except to the
sufficiency of the sureties, within ten days after the notice of the appeal ;
and unless they or other sureties justify before a judge of the court below,
or a county judge, as prescribed by sections 195 and 196, within ten days
thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded as if no undertaking had been
given. The justification shall be upon a notice of not less than rive days.

§ 342. 1 291.] (Am'd 1849.) Perishable property may be sold, notioith
standing appeal.
In the cases not provided for in sections 335, 336, 337, 338 and 339,
the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the undertaking mentioned in section
334, shall stay proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment appealed
from, except that, where it directs the sale of perishable property, the court
below may order the property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be
deposited or invested, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.
§ 343. [292.] (Am'd 1866.) Undertaking must be filed.
The undertaking must be filed with the cltrk with whom the judgment
or order appealed from was entered. The provisions of this chapter as to
the security to be given upon appeals, and as to the stay of proceed: tig*
shall apply to appeals taken under subdivision 3 of section 1L
§ 344. [293.] (Am'd 1849, 1858, 1860.) In what cases.
An appeal may be taken to the supreme court from the judgment ren
dered by a county court or by the mayors' courts, or the recorders' court*
of cities.
An appeal may also be taken to the supreme court from any order at
fi t ting a substantial right made by a county court or a county judge, ii.
smy action or proceeding, and such appeal shall be heard on a copy of tho
jcipers on which the order appealed from was made.

§ 345. [294.] Security must be given as upon appeal to the court of
appeals.
Security must be given upon such appeal in the same manner, and to
the same extent, as upon an appeal to the court of appeals.

§ 346. [295.] Appeal, where heard.
Appeals in the supreme court shall be heard at a general term, either
in the district embracing the county where the judgment or order appealed
from was entered, or in a county adjoining that county, except that where
the judgment or order was entered in the city and county of New York,
the appeal shall be heard in the first district.

§ 347. [296.] (Am'd 1849.) Judgment on appeal, where entered and
docketed.
Judgment upon the appeal shall be entered and docketed with the
clerk in whose office the judgment roll is filed. When the appeal is heard
in a county other than that where the judgment roll is filed, or is not from
a judgment of a county court, the judgment upon the appeal shall be cer
tified to the clerk with whom the roll is filed, to be there entered and
docketed.

§ 348. [297.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852,1859,1862.) Appeals from circuits and
special terms to same court in general term ; security on appeal.
In the supreme court, the superior court of the city of New York, and
the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York, an appeal
upon the law may be taken to the general term from a judgment entered
upon the report of referees or the direction of a single judge of the same
court in all cases, and upon the fact when the trial is by the court or refer
ees. Such an appeal, however, does not stay the proceedings, unless se
curity be given as upon an appeal to the court of appeals, and such security
be renewed as in cases required by section 335, on motion to the court at
special term, or unless the court, or a judge thereof, so order, which order
may be made upon such terms, as to security or otherwise, as may be just,
such security not to exceed the amount required on an appeal to the court
of appeals. In the supreme court the appeal must be heard in the same
manner as if it were an appeal from an inferior court.
No action shall be commenced upon any undertaking given "or to be
given in pursuance of the provisions of this section until ten days after the
service of notice on the adverse party of the entry of the order or judg
ment affirming the judgment appealed from. And, in case an appeal has
been or shall lie taken to the court of appeals from such order or judgment
of affirmance, and security given according to law, so as to stay the issuing
of executions, no action shall be commenced or recovery had upon any un
dertaking given or to be given in pursuance of the provisions of this section
unlil after the final determination of such appeal.

§ 349. [209.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1862.) Orders by a single judge
may be appealed from in certain cases.
An appeal may in like manner, and within the same time, be taken from
an order made at a special term by a single judge of the same court or county,
or a special county judge, "or by a recorder, or by any recorder's court of
any city," in any stage of the action, including proceedings supplementary
to the execution, and may be thereupon reviewed in the following cases :
1. When the order grants or refuses, continues or modifies a provisional
remedy ;
2. When it grants or refuses a new trial, or when it sustains or over
rules a demurrer ;
3. When it involves the merits of the action, or some part thereof, or
affects a substantial right ;
4. When the order in effect determines the action and prevents a judg
ment from which an appeal may be taken 
5. When the order is made upon a summary application in an action
after judgment and affects a substantial right.

§ 350. [300.] (Am'd 1870.) Orders at chambers to be entered before
The last section shall include an order made out of court upon notice ;
but in such case the order must be first entered with the clerk. And lor
the purpose of an appeal, any party affected by such order may require it
to be entered with the clerk, and it shall be entered accordingly. And
proceedings under an order appealed from may be stayed by an order of
the court, or a judge thereof, on such terms as may be just.

§ 351. [301.J (Am'd 1849.) Existing laws repealed, and this chapter
substituted.
All statutes now in force providing for the review of judgments in civil
cases, rendered by courts of justices of the peace, by the marine court of
the city of New York, by the justices' courts in the city of New York, by
the municipal court of the city of Brooklyn, and by the justices' courts of
cities, and regulating the practice in relation to such review, are repealed;
and hereafter, the only mode of reviewing such judgments shall be an
appeal, as prescribed by this chapter.

§ 352. [302.] (Am'd 1849, 1857, 1862, 1863, 1864, 1865.) By what court*
judgments are to be reviewed.
When a judgment shall have been rendered by the general term of the
marine court of the city of New York, or by a justice of a justice's court
of that city, the appeal shall be to the court of common pleas for the city
and county of New York.
The appeal from the general term of the marine court, prescribed here
in, shall be from an actual determination at such general term only, and
shall be taken within twenty days after judgment by such general term. In the
city of Buffalo, the appeals from the courts of justices of said city shall bo
to the superior court of said city. When rendered by any of the other
courts enumerated in section 351, the appeal shall be to the county court
of the county where the judgment was rendered. On such appeal, when
the amount of the claim or claims for which judgment was demanded by
either party in his pleadings in the court below, shall exceed fifty dollars,
or when, in an action to recover the possession of personal property, the
value of the property as assessed and the damages recovered shall exceed
fifty dollars, exclusive of costs, a new trial shall be had in the county court
in the following appellate cases:
1. When the judgment was rendered upon an issue of law joined be
tween the parties ;
2. When it was rendered upon an issue of fact joined between the par
ties, whether the defendant was present at the trial or not.
And, when the appeal is to the superior court of Buffalo, in the cases
in which, by the terms of this section, a new trial may be had, such new
trial shall be had in the said superior court.
Provided, however, that the appellant may, in cases where the amount
for which judgment is demanded by either party in his pleadings, exceeds
fifty dollars, or where, in an action to iveo.'er ti e possession of personal
property, the value of the property as assessed, and the damages recov
ered, shall exceed fifty dollars exclusive of costs, state in the notice of ap
peal that such appeal is taken upon questions of law only, in which case a
new trial shall not be had in the appellate court, but the appeal shall be
heard and determined in the same manner as if such amount or said value
and damages were fifty dollars or under. Provided, however, that in the
city and county of New York appeals from the marine and district courts
shall be taken and heard, and returns made, in the same manner as hereto
fore.

§ 853. [303.J (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Appeal, when to be taken.
The appellant shall, within twenty days after judgment, serve a notice
of appeal stating the grounds upon which the appeal is founded. If the judg
ment is rendered upon process not personally served, and the defendant did
not appear, he shall have twenty days, after personal notice of the judg
ment, to serve the notice of appeal provided for in this aud the next
section.

§ 354. [304.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1857, 1858.) Notice of appeal ; ser
vice on justice and opposite party ; payment of costs ; undertaking or
deposit.
The notice of appeal must, within the same time, be served on the jus
tice, personally if living within the county, or on his clerk, if there be one,
and on the respondent, personally, or by leaving it at his residence, with
some person of suitable age and discretion; or in case the respondent is not
a resident of such county, or cannot, after due diligence, be found therein,
in the same manner, on the attorney or agent, if any, who is a resident of
euch county who appeared for the respondent on the trial; and if neither
the respondent nor such agent or attorney can be found in the county, the
notice may be served on the respondent by leaving it with the clerk of the
appellate court, and the appellant must, at the time of the service of the
notice of appeal on the justice, or on his clerk, as herein provided (except
in cases of appeals from the district courts of the city of New York, and
the general term of the marine court of the city of New York), pay to
such justice, or clerk the costs of the action, included in the judgment,
together with two dollars, costs of the return, which shall be included in
the judgment for costs or reversal. In all cases of appeal from the general
term of the marine court of the city of New York, and from the district
courts of the city of New York to the court of common pleas for the city
and county of New York, the appellant shall, at the time of the service of
the notice of appeal, pay to the clerk of the marine' court, or to the justice
or clerk of the district court, two dollars, as costs of the return to such
court of common pleas, which costs so paid shall be included in the judg
ment for costs, in case the judgment of the court below shall be reversed;
and the appellant shall also execute, on the appeal, a written undertaking
on his part, with one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the
appellant will pay all costs, disbursements and extra costs, awarded against
him in the court below, if such judgment shall be affirmed by the appellate
court, on such appeal, together with all costs and damages which may be
awarded against him thereon ; such sureties to justify in double the amount
specified in the undertaking; such undertaking and the sufficiency of the
sureties to be approved by the justice of the court below, or one of the
judges 'of the court of common pleas; or the appellant may deposit, with
the clerk of the court of common pleas, the costs, disbursements, and
extra costs, included in the judgment in the court below, and the sum of
fifteen dollars, to meet any costs that may be awarded against him in such
appeal; and such appeal from the general term of the marine court and the
district court shall be ineffectual, unless, within the time specified for bring
ing the appeal, the appellant execute such undertaking, or make such
deposit ; the undertaking, when executed and approved, to be filed with
the clerk of the court of common pleas ; the amount so deposited shall be
repaid by said clerk, to the appellant, if he succeed on the appeal ; and in
case the judgment be affirmed, the said clerk shall, after execution is issued,
pay over the amount so deposited, to the respondent, which shall be
credited on the execution issued on the judgment of affirmance, to the
extent thereof, and the balance, -if any, on the execution issued on the
judgment appealed from.

§ 355. [305.] (Am'd 1849, 1863.) Security to stay execution.
When, by the terms of section 352, the appellant is entitled to a new
trial in the appellate court, he shall, at the time of taking his appeal, and
in all other cases, if he desires a stay of execution of the judgment, give
security, as provided in the next section.

§ 356. [306.] (Am'd 1849.) Form of undertaking.
The security shall be a written undertaking, executed by one or more
sufficient sureties, approved by the county judge, or by the court below, to
(he efl'ect that if judgment be rendered against the appellant, and execu
tion thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the sureties will
pay the amount unsatisfied.

§ 357. [307.] (Am'd 1849.) Execution, how stayed.
The delivery of the undertaking to the court below shall stay the issu
ing of execution ; or if it have been issued, the service of a copy of the
undertaking, certified by the court below, upon the officer holding the
execution, shall stay further proceedings thoreou.

§ 358. [308.] (Am'd 1849.) In case of death of justice, unaerta/cing to
be filed.
Where, by reason of the death of a justice of the peace, or his removal
from the county, or any other cause, the undertaking on the appeal cannot
be delivered to him, it shall be filed with the clerk of the appellate court,
and notice thereof given to the respondent, or his attorney or agent, as
provided in section 354 ; it shall thereupon have the effect as if delivered
to the justice.
§ 359- [309.] (Am'd 1849, 1852, 1865, 1866.) Filing notice of appeal,
instead of service.
When, by reason of the death of a justice of the peace, or his absence
from the county, or any other cause, the notice of appeal cannot be served
as provided by section 353, it may be served by leaving the same with the
clerk of the county.
$ 360. [311.] (Am'd 1849, 1852, 1862, 1865, 1866.) Return, when and how
made and compelled.
The court below shall thereupon, after ten days, and within thirty days
after service of the notice of appeal, make a return to the appellate court
of the testimony, proceedings and judgment, and file the same in the
appellate court. The return, may be compelled by attachment. But no
justice of the peace shall be bound to make a return unless the fees pre
scribed by riie last section of this chapter be paid on the service of the
notice of appeal ; provided, however, that in cases where the amount for
which judgment is demanded by either party in his pleadings in the court
below exceeds tifty dollars, or where the value of the property recovered,
as appears from the verdict or judgment, shall exceed tifty dollars, the
testimony need not be returned ; but in such case the court below shall
return the process by which the action was commenced, with the proof of
service thereof, and the pleadings or copies thereof, the proceedings and
judgment, together with a brief statement of the amount and nature of the
claim or claims litigated by the respective parties, and in all cases the notice
of appeal shall be annexed to the return ; but in cases where the appellant
shall, in accordance with the provisions of section 352 of this act, state
in the notice of appeal, that such appeal is taken upon questions of law
only, the court below shall return to the appellate court the testimony,
proceedings and judgment.

§ 361. [312.] How made, if justice be out of office.
When a justice of the peace, by whom a judgment appealed from was
rendered, shall have gone out of office before a return is ordered, he shall,
nevertheless, make a return in the same manner, and with the like effect, as
if he were still in office.
§ 362. [313.] (Am'd 1857.) Further return may be ordered.
If the return be defective, the appellate court may direct a further
or amended return as often as may be necessary, aud may compel a compl
iance with its order by attachment ; and the court shall always be deemed
open for these purposes.

§ 368. [314.] If justice be dead, insane or absent from Slate, witnesses
to be examined; if in another county, return may be compelled.
If a justice of the peace, whose judgment is appealed from, shall die,
become insane, or remove from the State, the appellate court may examine
witnesses, on oath, to the facte and circumstances of the trial or judgment,
and determine the appeal, as if the facts had been returned by the justice.
If he shall have removed to another county within the State, the appellate
court may compel him to make the return, as if he were still within tht»
county where the judgment was rendered

§ 364. [315.] (Am'd 1862, 1863.) Hearing, upon return; dismissing
appeal if not brouglit on.
If a return be made, and the appeal is from a judgment where a new
trial may not be had, as provided by this chapter, it may bo brought
to a hearing at a general term of. the appellate court, upon notice by either
party of not less than eight days. It shall be placed upon the calendar,
and continue thereon without further notice until finally disposed of. But
if neither party brings it to a hearing before the end of the second term,
the court shall dismiss the appeal, unless it continue the same by special
order for cause shown. If the appeal is from a judgment where a new
trial may be had, it may be brought to a hearing or trial at any term of the
county court, at which a petit jury shall be summoned to attend upon tho
same notico as provided for actions in the supreme court; at least eight
days before tho court the party desiring to bring on the appeal shall serve
a note of issue on the clerk, and tho clerk shall thereupon enter the cause
on the calendar according to the date of the return. And the provisions
of this chapter for a new trial shall apply as well to appeals heretofore
taken and now pending, as those hereafter to be brought.

§365. [316.J (Am'd. 1849, 1869.) To be heard on original papers, or cer
tified copies.
The appeal shall be heard on the original papers, or certified copies
thereof, and no copies thereof need be furnished for the use of the court.
§ 366. [317.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862, 1865.) Judgment, how given.
Upon the hearing of the appeal, the appellate court shall give judgment
according to the justice of the case, without regard to technical errors and
defects which do not affect the merits. In giving judgment, the court may
affirm or reverse the judgment of the court below, in whole or in part, and
as to any or all the parties, and for errors of law or fact. If the appeal is
founded on an error in fact in the proceedings, not affecting the merits of
the action, and not within the knowledge of the justice, the court may*
determine the alleged error in fact on affidavits, and may, in its discretion,
inquire into and determine the same upon the examination of the witnesses.
If the defendant failed to appear before the justice, and it is shown by the
affidavits served by the appellant, or otherwise, that manifest injustice has
been done, and he satisfactorily excuses his default, the court may, in its
discretion, set aside or suspend judgment, and order a new trial before the
same or any other justice in the same county, at such time and place, and
on such terms, as the court may deem proper. Where a new trial shall be
ordered before a justice, the parties must appear before him according to
the order of the court, and the same proceeding must thereupon be had in
the action as on the return of a summons personally served. If the appeal
shall be from a judgment in which a new trial may be had, as in this
chapter provided, the court shall proceed to the hearing of the cause, if
the issue joined before the justice was an issue of law, or to the trial
thereof by jury, if such issue was upon a question of fact :
1. If the issue joined before the justice was an issue of law, the court
shall render judgment thereon according to the law of the case ; and if
such judgment be against the pleadings of either party, an amendment of
such pleading may be allowed on the same terms and in like case as plead
ings in actions in the supreme court; and the court may thereupon, require
the opposite party to answer such amended pleading or join issue thereon,
as the case may require, summarily 
2. If upon an appeal in an issue of law, the court should adjudge the


pleading complained of to be valid, it .shall in like maimer require the op
posite party summarily to answer such pleading or join issue thereon, as
the case may require ;
3. Upon an issue of fact being so joined, the court shall proceed to
hear the same tried by a jury in the same maimer as issues joined in the
supreme court;
4. Every issue of fact so joined, or brought upon an appeal, shall be
tried in the same manner as in actions commenced in the supreme court ;
5. The court shall have the same power over its own determinations
and the verdict of the jury, and shall render judgment thereon in the same
manner as the supreme court in actions pending therein, and may allow
either party to amend his pleadings upon such terms as shall be just in
cases where a new trial may be had, as in this chapter provided ; and in
any such appeal, on which a new trial is to be had, either party may, at
any time before trial, serve upon the opposite party an offer, in writing, to
allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property, or to the
effect in such offer specified, and with or without costs, as said offer shall
specify. If the party receiving such offer accept the same, and give notice
thereof in writing within ten days, he may file the return and offer, with
an affidavit of service of notice of acceptance thereof, and the clerk shall
thereupon enter judgment according to said offer. And if the party mak
ing such offer shall have given an undertaking upon the appeal, the parties
executing such undertaking shall be liable thereon for the payment of the
judgment entered by virtue of said offer. If the notice of acceptance be
not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evi
dence. And, if the party to whom such offer is made fail to obtain a judg
ment more favorable to him than that specified in said offer, then he shall
not recover costs, but must pay the other party's costs from the date of the
service of the offer ;
6. Either party may move for a new trial in said court on a case or
exception, or otherwise, and such motion may be made before or after judg
ment has been entered, and the provisions of this act in relation to the pro
ceedings on receiving the verdict of a jury, exceptions to the decisions of
the court, making and settling ease and exceptions, motions for new trials,
and making up the judgment roll in the supreme court, are hereby made
applicable to all appeals brought up for trial as in this chapter provided.

§ 367. [318.] (Am'd 1852, 1865, 1869.) Judgment roll.
To every judgment on appeal there shall be annexed the return upon
which it was heard, or a certified copy thereof, the notice of appeal, with
any offer, verdict, decision of the court, exceptions, case, and all orders and
papers in any way involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judg
ment, which shall be filed with the clerk of the court, and shall constitute
the judgment roll.
§ 368. [321.] (Am'd 1849.) Costs, how awarded.
If- the judgment be affirmed, costs shall be awarded to the respondent.
If it be reversed, costs shall be awarded to the appellant. If it be
affirmed in part, the costs, or such part as to the court shall seem just, may
be awarded to either party.

§ 369. [322. J (Am'd 1849, 1857.) Ordering restitution.
If the judgment below, or any part thereof, be paid or collected, ami
the judgment be afterwards reversed, the appellate court shall order the
amount paid or collected to be restored, with interest from the time of
such payment or collection. The order may be obtained on proof of the
facts made at or after the hearing, upon a previous notice of six days, and
if the order shall be made before the judgment is entered, the. amount may
be included in the judgment.

§ 370. [323.] Setting of costs and recovery.
If, upon an appeal, a recovery be had by one party, and cost* be
awarded to the other, the appellate court shall set off the one against the
other, and render judgment for the balance.

§ 371. [324. J (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862, 1863, 1864, 1866.) The costs on appeal.
Costs shall lie allowed to the prevailing party in judgments rendered
on appeal in all cases, with the following exceptions and limitations : In the
notice of appeal, the appellant shall state in what particular or particulars
ne claims the judgment should have been more favorable to him. If he
claims that the amount of judgment is less favorable to him than it should
have been, he shall state what should have been its amount. Within fifteen
days after the service of the notice of appeal, the respondent may serve
upon the appellant and justice an offer, in writing, to allow the judgment
to be corrected in any of the particulars mentioned in the notice of appeal.
The appellant may, thereupon, and within five days thereafter, file with the
justice a written acceptance of such offer, who shall thereupon make a
minute thereof, in his docket, and correct such judgment accordingly, and
the same so corrected shall stand as his judgment, and be enforced accord
ingly ; and any execution which has been issued upon the judgment
appealed from, shall be amended by the justice to correspond with the
amended judgment ; and no undertaking given to stay execution shall be
enforced for more than the amount of the corrected judgment. If such
offer be not made, and the judgment in the appellate court be more favor
able to the appellant than the judgment in the court below ; or if such offer
be made and not accepted, and the judgment in the appellate court bo
more favorable to the appellant than the offer of the respondent, the appel
lant shall recover costs; provided, however, that the appellant shall not
recover costs unless the judgment appealed from shall be reversed on such
appeal, or be made more favorable' to him, to the amount of at least ten
dollars. If the offer be made, and accepted by the appellant, the appellant
shall recover all his disbursements on appeal, and all his costs in the court
below. But the appellant shall not recover costs except as provided in
this chapter. The respondent shall be entitled to recover costs where the
appellant is not.
Whenever costs are awarded to the appellant, he shall be allowed to
tax as part thereof the costs and fees paid to the justice on making the
appeal, as disbursements, in addition to the costs in the appellate court ;
and when the judgment in the suit before the justice was against such
appellant, he shall further be allowed to tax the costs incurred by him,
which he would have been entitled to recover in case the judgment below
had been rendered in his favor. If, upon an appeal, a recovery for any
debt or damages be had by one party, and costs be awarded to the other
party, the court shall set off such costs against such debt or damages, and
render judgment for the balance. The following fees and costs, and no
other, except fees of officers, disbursements and witnesses' fees, shall be
allowed on appeal, to the party entitled to costs as herein provided, when
the new trial is in the county court.
For proceedings before notice of trial, ten dollars ; for all subsequent
proceedings before trial, seven dollars ; for trial of an issue of law, ten
dollars ; for every trial of an issue of fact, fifteen dollars ; for argument of
a motion for a new trial on a ease or a bill of exceptions, ten dollars ; in
all cases, to either party, for every term not exceeding five, at which the
appeal is necessarily on the calendar, and is not tried or is not postponed
by the court, seven dollars. In other appeals the costs shall be as
follows : To the appellant, on reversal, fifteen dollars ; to the respondent,
on the affirmance, twelve dollars. If the judgment appealed from be
reversed in part and affirmed as to the residue, the amount of costs allowed
to either party shall be such sum as the appellate court may award, not
exceeding ten dollars. If the appeal be dismissed for want of prosecution,
as provided by section 3(54, no costs shall be allowed to either party. In
every appeal the justice of the peace before whom the judgment appealed
from was rendered shall receive two dollars for his return. If the judg
ment be reversed for an error of fact in the proceedings, not affecting the
merits, costs shall be in the discretion of the court. If, in the notice of
appeal, the appellant shall not state in what particular or particulars he
claims the judgment should have been more favorable to him, he shall not
be entitled to costs unless the judgment appealed from shall be wholly
reversed.


§ 372. [325.] Controversy, how submitted without action.
Parties to a question in difference, which might be the subject of a civil
action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon
which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same, to
any court which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must appear, by affidavit, that the controversy is real, and the pro
ceeding in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The court
shall thereupon hear and determine the case, at a general term, and render
judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.

§ 373. [326.] Judgment on, as in other cases, but without costs.
Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book, as in other cases,
but without costs, for any proceeding prior to notice of trial. The case,
the submission, and a copy of the judgment, shall constitute the judgment
roll.
§ 374. [327.] Judgment may be enforced, or appealed from, as in an
action.
The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been
rendered in an action, and shall be subject to appeal in like manner.

§ 375. [328.J (Am'd 1849.) Parties not summoned in action on joint
contract, may be summoned after judgment.
When a judgment shall be recovered against one or more of several
persons, jointly indebted upon a contract, by proceeding as provided in
section 136, those who were not originally summoned to answer tbe com
plaint, may be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by
the judgment, in the same manner Vis if they had been origiually summoned.

§ 376. [329.] (Am'd 1849.) If judgment debtor die, his representatives
mag be summoned.
■ In case of the death of a judgment debtor after judgment, the heirs,
devisees, or legatees of the judgment debtor, or the tenants of real prop
crty owned by him and affected by the judgment, may, after the expiration
of three years from the time of granting letters testamentary, or of admin
istration, upon the estate of the testator or intestate, be summoned to show
cause why the judgment should not be enforced against the estate of the
judgment debtor in their hands, respectively, and the personal representa
tives of a deceased judgment debtor may be so summoned at any time
within one year after their appointment.

§ 377. [330.J Form of summons.
The summons provided in the last two sections shall be subscribed by
the judgment creditor, his representatives or attorney, shall describe the
judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause, within twenty
days after the service of the summons; and shall be served in like manner
as the original summons.

§ 378. [331.] To be accompanied by affidavit of amount due.
The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the person sub
scribing it, that the judgment has not been satisfied, to his knowledge or
information and belief, and shall specify the amount due thereon.
§ 379- [332.] (Am'd 1849, 1866.) Party summoned may answer and
defend.
Upon such summons, any party summoned may answer within the time
specified therein, denying the judgment or setting up any defense thereto
which may have arisen subsequently to such judgment; and, in addition
thereto, if the party be proceeded against according to section 375, he may
make any defense which he might have made to the action if the summons
had been served on him at the time when the same was originally com
menced, and such defense had been then interposed to such action.

§ 380. [333.J (Am'd 1849.) Subsequent pleadings and proceedings same
as in an action.
The party issuing the summons, may demur or reply to the answer,
and the party summoned may demur to the reply; and the issues may be
tried and judgment may be given, iu the same manner as in an action, and
enforced by execution, or the application of the property charged to the
payment of the judgment, may be compelled by attachment, if necessary.
§ 381. [334.J (Am'd 1849.) Answer and reply to be verified as in an
action.
The answer and reply shall be verified in the like cases and manner, and
be subject to the same rules, as the answer and reply in an action.
§ 382. [335.] Judgment may be confessed for debt due or contingent
liability.
A judgment by confession may be entered without action, either for
money due, or to become due, or to secure any person against contingent
liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed by
this chapter.

§ 383 [336.] Statement in writing, and form thereof.
A statement in writing must be made, signed by the defendant and
verified by his oath, to the following effect :
1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be entered, and
authorize the entry of judgment thoiefor ;
2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state concisely the
facts out of which it arose, and must show that the sum confessed therefore
is justly due, or to become due ;
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contingent
liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and must
show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same.

§ 384. [337.J (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Filing same, and entering judgment.
The statement may be filed with a county clerk, or with a clerk of the
superior court of the city of New York, who shall indorse upon it and
enter in the judgment book a judgment of the supreme or said superior
court, for the amount confessed, with five dollars costs, together with dis
bursements. The statement and affidavit, with the judgment indorsed,
shall thenceforth become the judgment roll. Executions may be issued
and enforced thereon, in the same manner as upon judgments in other cases
in such courts. When the debt for which the judgment is recovered is not
all due, or is payable in installments, and the installments are not all due,
the execution may issue upon such judgment for the collection of such
installments as have become due, and shall be in the usual form, but shall
have indorsed thereon, by the attorney or person issuing the same, a direc
tion to the sheriff to collect the amount due on such judgment, with interest
and costs, which amount shall be stated, with interest thereon, and the
costs of said judgment. Notwithstanding the issue and collection of such
execution, the judgment shall remain as security for the installments there
after to become due ; and whenever any further installments become due,
execution may in like manner be issued for the collection and enforcement
of the same.

§ 385. [338. | (Am'd 1851, 1866.) Defendant may offer to compromise,
and the proceedings thereon.
The defendant may, at any time before the trial or verdict, serve upon
the plaintifff an offer in writing to allow judgment to he taken against him
for the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified, with costs. If
the plaintifff accept the offer, and give notice thereof in writing, within ten
days, he may file the summons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of
notice of acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accord
ingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed
withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence ; and if the plaintifff fail to
obtain a more favorable judgment he cannot recover costs, but must pay
the defendant's costs from the time of the offer ; and in case the defendant
shall set up a counterclaim in his answer to an amount greater than the
plaintifff's claim, or sufficient to reduce the plaintifff's recovery below fifty
dollars, then the plaintifff may serve upon the defendant an offer in writing
to allow judgment to be taken against him for the amount specified, or to
allow said counterclaim to the amount specified, with costs. If the defend
ant accept the offer, and give notice theieof in writing, within ten days, he
may enter judgment as above for the amount specified, if the offer entitle
him to judgment, or the amount specified in said offer shall be allowed him
in the trial of the action. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer
is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence ; and if the
defendant fail to recover a more favorable judgment or to establish his
counterclaim for a greater amount than is specified in said offer, he cannot
recover costs, but must pay the plaintifff's costs from the time of the offer.

§ 336. [339.] Defendant may offer to liquidate damages conditionally.
Iu an action arising on contract, the defendant may, with his answer,
serve upon the plaintifff' an ofl'er iu writing, that if he fail iu his defense, the
damages be assessed at a specified sum ; and if the plaintifff siguify his
acceptauce thereof in writing, with or before the notice of trial, and on the
trial have a verdict, the damages shall be assessed accordiugly.
§ 337. [340.] Ujfect of acceptance or refusal of offer.
If the plaintifff do not accept the oiler, he shall prove his damages as if
it had not been made, and shall not be permitted to give it in evidence.
And if the damages assessed in his favor shall not exceed the sum men
tioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his expenses, incurred iu
consequence of any necessary preparation or defense in respect to the ques
tion of damages. Such expense shall be ascertained at the trial.

§ 388. [341, 342. J (Am'd 1849.) A party may be required to admit a
paper to be genuine, or pay expense of proving it ; inspection and copy of
books, papers and documents, looio obtained.
Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his attorney, at any time
before the trial, any paper material to the action, and request an admission
in writing of its genuineness. If the adverse party, or his attorney, fail to
give the admission, within four days after the request, and if the party
exhibiting the paper be afterwards put to expense in order to prove its
genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial, such
expense, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing
the admission ; unless it appear to the satisfaction of the court that there
were good reasons for the refusal. The court before which an action is
pending, or a judge or justice thereof, may, in their discretion, and upon
due notice, order either party to give to the other, within a specified time,
an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of any books, papers
and documents in his possession, or under his control, containing evidence
relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein. If compliance
with the order be refused, the court, on motion, may exclude the paper from
being given iu evidence, or punish the party refusing, or both.

§ 389. [34I3.J Actions for discovery abolished.
No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid of the prosecution or
defense of another action, shall be allowed, nor shall any examination of
a party be had, on behalf of the adverse party, except in the manner pre
scribed by this chapter.

§ 390. [344.] A party may examine his adversary as a witness on the
trial.
A party to an action may be examined as a witness, at the instance of
the adverse party, or of any one of several adverse parties, and for that
purpose may be compelled, in the same manner, and subject to the same
rules of examination, as any other witness to testify, either at the trial, or
conditionally, or upon commission.

§ 391. [345. j (Am'd 1849.) Such examination also allowed before trial;
proceedings therefore.
The examination, instead of being had at the trial, as provided in the
last section, may be had at any time before the trial, at the option of the
party claiming it, before a judge of the court, or a county judge, on a pre
vious notice to the party to be examined, and any other adverse party, of
at least five days, unless, for good cause shown, the judge order otherwise.
But the party to be examined, shall not be compelled to attend in any
other county than that of his residence, or where he may be served with a
summons for his attendance.

§ 392. f 346. j (Am'd 1849.) Party, how compelled to attend.
The party to he examined, Us in the last section provided, may be com
pelled to attend in the same manner as a witness who is to be examined
conditionally : and the examination shall be taken and filed by the judge
in like manner, and may be read by either party on the trial.

§ 393. [348.] (Am'd 1849.) Testimony of parly may be rebutted.
The examination of the party thus taken may be rebutted by adverse
testimony.

§ 394. [347.J (Am'd 1849.) Effect of refusal to testify.
If a party refuse to attend and testify, as in the last four sections pro
vided, he may be punished as for a contempt, and his complaint, answer or
reply may he stricken out.

§ 395. [349.] (Am'd 1849, 1863.) Testimony by a party, not responsive
to the inquiries, may be rebutted by the oath of the party calling him.
A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter provided, may
be examined on his own behalf, subject to the same rules of examination as
other witnesses. But if he testify to any new matter, not responsive to
the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or
qualify his answers thereto, or discharge when his answers would charge
himself, such adverse party may offer himself as a witness on his own
behalf in respect to such new matter, subject to the same rules of exami
nation as other witnesses, and shall be so received.
§ 396. [350.] Persons for whom action is brought or defended may be
examined.
A person for whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted or
defended, though not a party to the action, may be examined as a witness,
in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination as if he
were named as a party.

§ 397. (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Examination of co-plaintifff or co-defendant.
A party may be examined on behalf of his co-plaintifff or of a co-defend
ant, as to any matter in which he is not jointly interested or liable with such
co-plaintifff or co-defendant, and as to which a separate and not joint verdict
or judgment can be rendered. And he may be compelled to attend in the
same manner as at the instance of an adverse party, but the examination
thus taken shall not be used in the behalf of the party examined. And
whenever, in the case mentioned in sections 390 and 391, one of several
plaintifffs or defendants, who are joint contractors, or are united in interest,
is examined by the adverse party, the other of such plaintifffs or defendants
may offer himself as a witness to the same cause of action or defense, and
shall be so received.

§ 398. [351. J (Am'd 1869.) No witness to be excluded by reason of in
terest.
No person offered as a witness in any action or proceeding in any court,
or before any officer acting judicially, shall be excluded by reason of his
interest in the event of the action or proceeding, or because he is a party
thereto, except as is provided in the next following section of this act.
Nothing contained in the eighth section of this act shall be held or con
strued to affect or limit the operation of this or the next following section.

§ 399. [3.r)2.] (Am'd 1851, 1857, 1858, 1859, 1860, 18C2, 1863, 1865, 1866, 1867,
1869.) Examination of co-plaintifff or co-defendant.
No party to an action or proceeding, nor any person interested in the
event thereof, nor any person from, through, or under whom any such party
or interested person derives any interest or title, by assignment or other
wise, shall be examined as a witness in regard to any personal transaction
or communication between such witness and a person at the time of such
examination deceased, insane or lunatic, against the executor, administrator,
heir at law, next of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee or survivor of such
deceased person, or ihe assignee or committee of such insane person or
lunatic. But this prohibition shall not extend to any transaction or com
munication as to which any such executor, administrator, heir at law, next
of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor or committee shall be examined
on his own behalf, or as to which the test imony of such deceased person or
lunatic shall be given in evidence.

§ 400. [357.J Definition of an order.
Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in writing, and
not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.

§ 401. [358 to 362.J (Am'd 1849, 1852, 1858, 1859, 1862, 1870.) Definition
of a motion ; motions, how and where made.
1. An application for an order is a motion.
2. Motions may be made in the first judicial district to a judge or jus
tice out of court, except for a new trial on the merits.
3. Orders made out of court, without notice, may he made by any judge
of the court, in any part of the State, and they may also be made by a
county judge of the county where the action is triable, or by the county
judge of the county in which the attorney for the moving party resides,
except to stay proceedings after verdict.
4. Motions upon notice must be made within the district in which the
action is triable, or in a county adjoining that in which it is triable, except
.that, where the action is triable in the first judicial district, the motion
must be made therein, and no motion upon notice can be made in the first
judicial district in an action triable elsewhere.
5. In all the districts, a motion to vacate or modify a provisional remedy,
and an appeal from an order allowing a provisional remedy, shall have
preference over all other motions.
6. No order to stay proceedings, for a longer time than twenty days,
shall be granted by a judge out of court, except to stay proceedings under
an order or judgment appealed from, or upon previous notice to the
adverse party.
7. When any party intends to make or oppose a motion in any court of
record, and it shall be necessary for him to have the affidavit of any person
who shall have refused to make the same, such court may, by order, appoint
a referee to take the affidavit or deposition of such person. Such person
may be subpoenaed and compelled to attend and make an affidavit before
such referee, the same as before a referee to whom it is referred to try an
issue. And the fees of such referee for such service shall be three dollars
per day.
8. Whenever a motion shall be made in any cause or proceeding in any
of the courts of this state, to obtain an injunction order, order of arrest or
w arrant of attachment, or to vacate, modify or set aside any injunction
order, order of arrest or warrant of attachment, granted in such case or
proceeding, it shall be the duty of the judge, before whom such motion is
made, to render and make known his decision on such motion, within
twenty days after the day upon which such motion shall or may be sub
mitted to him for his decision. 

§ 402." [363.] (Am'd 1849.) When notice is necessary, it must be eight
days before hearing.
When a notice of a motion is necessary, it must be served eight days
before the time appointed for the hearing ; but the court or judge may, by
an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time.

§ 403. [364.] In actions in supreme court, county judge may act at
chambers ; his orders, how reviewed.
In an action in the supreme court, a county judge, in addition to the
powers conferred upon him by this act, may exercise, within his county,
the powers of a judge of the supreme court at chambers, according to the
existing practice, except as otherwise provided in this act. And in all cases
where an order is made by a county judge, it may be reviewed in the same
manner as if.it had been made by a judge of the supreme court.

§ 404> [365.] (Am'd 1849.) In absence of judge at chambers, motion
may be transferred by him to another judge.
When notice of a motion is given, or an order to show cause is return
able, before a judge out of court, and at the time fixed for the motion he is
absent, or unable to hear it, the same may be transferred by his order to
some other judge before whom the motion might originally have been
made.

§ 405. [366. J (Am'd 1849.) Enlarging time for proceedings in an action.
The time within which any proceeding in an action must be had, after
its commencement, except the lime within which an appeal must be taken,
may be enlarged, upon an affidavit showing grounds therefore, by a judge
of the court, or if the action be in the supreme court, by a county judge.
The affidavit, or a copy thereof, must be served with a copy of the order,
or the order may be disregarded.


§ 406. [3fi7.] Affidavits defectively entitled.
It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit in the action ; but an
affidavit made without a title, or with a defective title, shall be as valid
and effectual, for every purpose, as if it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly
refer to the action or proceeding in which it is made.

§ 407. [368.] Time, how computed.
The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

§ 408. [369.J Notices and other papers, how served on party or attor
ney.
Notices shall be in writing ; and notices and other papers may be served
on the party or attorney, in the manner prescribed in the next three sec
tions, where not otherwise provided by this act.

§ 409. [3 70. J Notices and other papers, how served on party or
attorney.
The service may be personal, or by delivery to the party or attorney on
whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as follows :
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his
office, by leaving the paper with" his clerk therein, or with a person having
charge thereof; or when there is no person in the office, by leaving it,
between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a con
spicuous place in the office, or if it be not open, so as to admit of such
service, then by leaving it afr»the attorney's residence, with some person of
suitable age and discretion 
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at his residence,
between the hours of six in the .morning and nine in the evening, with
some person of suitable age and discretion.

§ 410. [371.] When and how served by mail.
Service by mail may be made where the person making the service and
the person on whom it is to be made reside in different places, between
which there is a regular communication by mail.

§ 411. [372.] When and how served by mail.
In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited in the postoffice, addressed to the person on whom it is to be served, at his place of
residence, and the postage paid

§ 413. [374.J (Am'd 1849.) Eight days' notice of motion, etc..
court or judge, when personally served.
Notice of a motion or other proceeding before a court or judge, when
personally served, shall be given at least eight days before the time ap
pointed therefore.

§ 414. [375.] (Am'd 1849.) WItere papers need not be served on de
fendant.
Where a defendant shall not have demurred or answered, service of
notice or papers, in the ordinary proceedings in tin action, need not be
made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of bail, but shall be
made upon him or his attorney, if notice of appearance in the action has
been given.

§ 415. [376.] (Am'd 1849.) Service of papers where party resides out of
State.
Where a plaintifff or a defendant who has demurred or answered, or
gives notice of appearance, resides out of the State, and has no attorney in
the action, the service may be made by mail, if his residence be known ; if
not known, on the clerk for the party.
§ 416. [377.] Summons and pleadings to be filed within ten days after
service.
The summons, and the several pleadings in an action, shall be filed with
the clerk within ten days after the service thereof, respectively ; or the
adverse party, on proof of the omission, shall be entitled, without notice,
to an order from a judge that the same be filed within a time to be specified
in the order, or be deemed abandoned.

§ 417. [378.] Service, where party appears by attorney.
Where a party shall have an attorney in the action, the service of papers
shall be made upon the attorney, instead of th • party.

§ 418. [379.] This chapter not to apply to summons or process, or to
papers to bring party into contempt.
The provisions of this cbaper shall not apply to the service of a sum
mons, or other process, or of any paper to bring a party into contempt.

§ 419. [380.] (Am'd 1849.) Duty of sheriff and coroner in serving oi
executing process, and how enforced.
Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheriff may be required to serve or
execute any summons, order or judgment, or to do any other act, he shall
be bound to do so, in like manner as upon process issued to him, and shall
be equally liable in all respects for neglect of duty ; and if the sheriff be a
party, the coroner shall be bound to perform the service, as he is now
bound to execute process, where the sheriff is a party ; and all the provi
sions of this act relating to sheriffs shall apply to coroners when the sheriff
is a party.

§ 420- [38 1. J Guardian not to receive property until security given.
No guardian appointed for an infant shall be permitted to receive prop
erty of the infant, until he shall have given sufficient security, approved by
a judge of the court or a county judge, to account for and apply the same,
under the direction of the court.

§ 421. [382.J Referees authorized to administer oailis and to exercise
powers noio vested in referees by law.
Every referee, appointed pursuant to this act, shall have power to
administer oaths, in any proceeding before him, and shall have generally
the powers now vested iu a referee by law.

§ 422. Papers lost or wit/i/ield, hoiv supplied.
If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld by any person,
the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and used instead of the
original.

§ 423. Where undertakings to be filed.
The various undertakings required to be given by this act must be
filed with the clerk of the court, unless the court expressly provides for a
different disposition thereof, except that the undertakings provided for by
the chap.er on the claim and delivery of personal property, shall, after the
justification of the sureties, be delivered by the sheriff to the parties
respectively, for whose benefit they are* taken.

§ 424. Judgment on bond and warrant of attorney, executed before
July 1, 1848.
Upon any bond and warrant of attorney executed and delivered before
the first day of July, eighteen hundred and forty-eight, judgment may be
entered in the manner provided by sections 382, 383, and 384, upon the
plaintifff's filing such bond and warrant of attorney, and a statement signed
and verified by himself, in the form prescribed by section 382.

§ 425. Time for publication of notices, how computed. %
The time for publication of legal notices shall be computed so as to
exclude the first day of publication and include the day on which the act
or event, of which notice is giveu, is to happen, or which completes the full
period required for publication.

§ 426- (Am'd 1869.) Laios of other States and governments, how proved.
Printed copies of statutes, code or other written laws, and of the pro
clamations, edicts, decrees and ordinances, by the executive power of any
State or territory or foreign government, when printed in books or publi
cations purporting or proved to have been published by the authority
thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing
law, in the courts and judicial tribunals of such State, territory or govern
ment, shall be admitted by the courts and officers of this State, ou all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws, proclamations, edicts,
decrees and ordinances. The unwritten or common law of any other State
or territory or foreign government, may be proved as facts by parol
evidence, and the books of reports of cases adjudged in these courts, may
also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law.

§ 427. Where aw by whom brought.
An action against t corporation, created by, or under the laws of anyother State, govern _nent, or country, may be brought in the supreme court,
the superior con . c of the city of New York, or the court of common pleas
for the city ar.d county of New York, in the following cases :
1. By * resident of this State, lor any cause of action ;
2. By a plaintifff not a reeident of this state, when the cause of action
shall have arisen, or the subject of the action shall be situated within
^he State.

§ 428. Scire facias and quo warranto abolished, and this chapter sub
stituted.
The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and proceedings by
information in the nature of quo warranto, are abolished, and the remedies
heretofore obtainable in those forms may be obtained by civil actions,
under the provisions of this chapter. But any proceeding heretofore com
menced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not be affected by
such abolition.

§ 429. Action may be brought by attorney-general to vacate a charter
by direction of legislature.
An action may be brought by the attorney-general, in the name of the
people of this State, whenever the legislature shall so direct, against a cor
poration, for the purpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation,
or an act renewing its corporate existence, on the ground that such act or
renewal was procured upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a
material fact by the persons incorporated, or by some of them, or with their
knowledge and consent.

§ 430. Action to annul a corporation, when and how brought by
attorney-general, by leave of supreme court.
An action may be brought by the attorney-general, in the name of the
people of this State, on leave granted by the supreme court, or a judge
thereof, for the purpose of vacating the charter, or annulling the existence
of a corporation, other than municipal, whenever such corporation shall ;
1. Offend against any of the provisions of the act or acts creating, alter
ing or renewing such corporation ; or,
2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such corporation shall
have forfeited its charter, by abuse of its powers ; or,
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises, by fail
ure to exercise its powers ; or,
4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which amounts to a
surrender of its corporate rights, privileges and franchises ; or,
5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege not conferred
upon it by law.
And it shall be the duty of the attorney-general, whenever he shall
have reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions can be established
by proof, to apply for leave, and, upon leave granted, to bring the action
in every case of public interest, and also in every other case in which satis
factory security shall be given, to indemnify the people of this State against
the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.

§ 431. Leave, how obtained.
Leave to bring the action may be granted upon the application of the
attorney-general, and the court or judge may, at discretion, direct notice
of such application to be given to the corporation or its officers, previous
to granting such leave, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto.
§ 432. Action upon information or complaint, of course.
An action may be brought by the attorney-general in the name of the
people of this State, upon his own information, or upon the complaint of
any private party, against the parties offending in the following cases :
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or
exercise any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within this
State, or any office in a corporation created by the authority of this
State ; or,
2. When any public officer, civil or military, shall have done or suffered
an act which, by the provisions of law, shall make a forfeiture of his
office ; or,
3. When any association, or number of persons, shall act within this
State as a corporation, without being duly incorporated.

§ 433. Action, when and how brought to vacate letters patent.
An action may be brought by the attorney-general in the name of the
people of this State, for the purpose of vacating or annulling letters
patent, granted by the people of this State, in the following cases :
1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent were
obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a
material fact, made by the person to whom the same were issued or made,
or with his consent or knowledge ; or,
2. When he shall have reason to believe, that such letters patent were
issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact ; or,
3. When he shall have reason to believe, that the patentee, or those
claiming uuder him, have done or omitted an act in violation of the terms
and conditions on which the letters patent were granted, or have, by any
other means, forfeited the interest acquired under the same.

§ 434. (Am'd 1866, 1867.) Relator, when to be joined as plaintifff.
When an action shall be brought by the attorney-general, by virtue of
this chapter, on the relation or information of a person having an interest
in the question, the name of such person shall be joined with the people as
plaintifff, and in every such case the attorney-general may require, as a con
dition for bringing such action, that satisfactory security shall be given to
indemnify the people of the State against the costs and expenses to be
incurred thereby ; and in every case where such security is given, the
measure of the compensation to be paid by such person or persons to the
attorney-general, shall be left to the agreement of the parties, express or
implied.


§ 435. Complaint and arrest of defendant in action for usurping an
office.
Whenever such action shall be brought against a person for usurping an
office, the attorney -general, in addition to the statement of the cause of
action, may also set forth, in the complaint, the name of the person right
fully entitled to the office, with a statement of his right thereto, and in
such case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has received fees or
emoluments belonging to the office, and by means of his usurpation thereof
an order may be granted by a judge of the supreme court for the arrest of
such defendant, and holding him to bail, and thereupon he shall be arrested
and held to bail, in the manner, and with the same effect, and subject to
the same rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions, where the defend
ant is subject to arrest.
§ 436. Judgment in such action.
In every such case, judgment shall be rendered upon the right of the
defendant, and also upon the right of the party, so alleged to be entitled,
or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall require.

§ 437". Assumption of office, etc., by relator, when judgment is in his
favor.
If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so alleged
lo lie entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he shall be entitled,
after taking the oath of office and executing such official bond as may be
required by law, to take upon himself I ho execution of the office, and it
si all be his duty, immediately thereafter, to demand of the defendant in
the action all the books and papers in his custody or within his power,
belonging to the office, from which he shall have ' een excluded.

§ 438- Proceedings against defendant on refusal to deliver books or
papers.
If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver over such books or
papers, pursuant to the demand, he shall be deemed guilty of a misde
meanor, and the same proceedings shall be had, and with the same effect,
to compel delivery of such books and papers, as are prescribed in article 5,
title 6, chapter 6, of the first part of the revised statutes.

§ 439 Damages, how recovered.
If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so alleged to be
entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover, by action, the damages
which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpation by the defendant
of the office, from which such defendant has been excluded.
§ 440. One action against several persons claiming office or franchise.
Where several persons claim to be entitled to the same office or fran
chise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in order to try
their respective rights to such office or franchise.
§ 441. Penalty for usurping office or franchise, how awarded.
When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation, against
whom such action shall have been brought, shall be adjudged guilty of
usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or exercising any office,
franchise or privilege, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be
excluded from such office, franchise or privilege, and also that the plaintifff
recover costs against such defendant. The court may also, in ite discretion,
fine such defendant a sum not exceeding two thousand dollars, which fine,
when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the State.
•
§ 442. Judgment of forfeiture against a corporation.
If it shall be adjudged that a corporation against which an action shall
have been brought, pursuant to this chapter, has, by neglect, abuse, or sur
render, forfeited its corporate rights, privileges and franchises, judgment
shall be rendered that the corporation be excluded from such corporate
rights, privileges and franchises, and that the corporation be dissolved.
§ 443. Costs against corporation or persons claiming to be such, how
collected.
If judgment be rendered in such action against a corporation, or against
persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs therein
to be collected, by execution against the persons claiming to be a corpora
tion, or by attachment or process against the directors or other officers of
such corporation.
§ 444. Restraining corporation and appointment of receiver.
When such judgment shall be rendered against a corporation, the court
shall have the same power to restrain the corporation, to appoint a receiver
of its property, and to take an account, and make distribution thereof
among its creditors, as are given in article 3, title 4, chapter 8, of the third
part of (he revised statutes ; and it shall be the duty of the attorney-general.
immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to institute pro
ccedings for that purpose.

§ 445. Copy of judgment roll against corporation, where to be filed.
Tpon the rendition of such judgment against a corporation, or for the
vacating or annulling of letters patent, it shall be the duty of the attorneygeneral
to cause a copy of the judgment roll to be forthwith filed in the
office of the secretary of State.
§ 446. Entry of judgment relating to letters patent in records of
commissioners of land office.
Such secretary shall thereupon, if the record relates to letters patent,
make an entry in the records of the commissioners of the laud office, of the
substance and effect of such judgment, and of the time when the record
thereof was docketed, and the real property granted by such letters patent
may thereafter be disposed of by such commissioners in the same manner
as if such letters patent had never beeu issued.
§ 447. Actions for forfeiture of property to the people.
Whenever, by the provisions of law, any property, real or personal,
shall be forfeited to the people of this State, or to any officer, for their
use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging the grounds of
the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper officer, in the supreme court.

§ 448. Provisions of revised statutes, applicable to actions foi
partition.
The provisions of the revised statutes relating to the partition of lands,
tenements and hereditaments, held or possessed by joint tenants or tenants
in common, shall apply to actions for such partition brought under this act,
so far as the same can be so applied to the substance and subject-matter of
the action, without regard to its form.

§ 449. Actions to determine claims to real property, how prosecuted.
Proceedings to compel the determination of claims to real property,
pursuant to the provisions of the revised statutes, may be prosecuted by
action under this act, without regard to the forms of the proceedings as
they are prescribed by those statutes.

§ 450. Action of waste abolished; waste, how remediable.
The action of waste is abolished, but any proceeding heretofore com
menced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not be affected
thereby. Wrongs heretofore remediable by action of waste are subjects of
action as other wrongs, in which action there may be judgment for damages,
forfeiture of the estate of the party offending, and eviction from the
premises.

§ 451 . Provisions of revised statutes applicable to actions for waste
under this act.
The provisions of the revised statutes relating to the action of waste
hall apply to an action for waste, brought under this act, without regard
o the form of the itction, so far as the same can be so applied.
§ 452. When judgment of forfeiture and eviction to be given.
Judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in favor of the
person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant in possession, when the
injury to the estate in reversion shall be adjudged in the action to be equal
to the value of the tenant's estate or unexpired term, or to have been done
in malice.
§ 453. Writ of nuisance abolished.
The writ of nuisance is abolished ; but any proceeding heretofore com
menced, or any judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not be affected
thereby.

§ 454. Remedy for injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuisance.
Injuries heretofore remediable 'by writ of nuisance are subjects of action,
is other injuries, and in such action there may be judgment for damages,
>r for the removal of the nuisance, or both.

§ 455. Provisions of revised statutes applicable thereto.
The general provisions of the revised statutes relating to actions con
cerning real property shall apply to actions brought under this act, accord
ing to the subject-matter of the action, and without regard to its form.

§ 456. Appeal from order at special term, on summary application
after judgment.
The appeal, mentioned in section 9, of the act to facilitate the determina
tion of existing "suits in the courts of this State, may also be taken, from an
order, made at a special term, on a summary application in an action after
judgment, when such order involves the merits of the application, or some
part thereof.
§ 457'. Writ of error in all cases abolished ; appeal substituted.
No writ of error shall be hereafter issued, in any case whatever. Wheri ver a right now exists to have a review of a judgment rendered, or order
or decree made before the first day of July, 1848, such review can only be
had upon an appeal taken in the manner provided by this act, and all
appeals heretofore taken from such judgments, orders, or decrees under the
provisions of the Code of Procedure, which are still pending in an appellate
court, and not dismissed, shall be valid and effectual. But this section
shall not extend the right of review, to any case or question to which it
does not now extend, nor the time for appealing, nor shall it apply to a
case where a writ of error has been already issued.

§ 458. Execution when issuable on a judgment docketed before July 1,
1848.
An execution may be issued without leave of the court upon a judg
ment docketed before the first day of July, one thousand eight hundred
aud forty-eight, or now or hereafter to be rendered in an action pending on
that day, at any time within five years after the rendering of the judgment.
§ 459. (Am'd 1851.) Act applies to actions pending at time of its pas
sage; extraordinary terms and circuits.
The provisions of this act apply to future proceedings in actions or suits
heretofore commenced and now pending, as follows :
1. If there have been no pleading therein, to the pleadings and all sub
sequent proceedings ;
2. When there is an issue of law or of fact, or any other question of fact
to be tried, to the trial and all subsequent proceedings ;
3. After a judgment or order, to the proceedings to enforce, vacate, mod
ify or reverse it, including the costs of an appeal. Whenever the judges of
the supreme court in any district find that the court, at any term or circuit,
had not been, or will not be, able to dispose of all the cases upon the calen
dar, they may request the governor to assign other judges, and, if necessary,
appoint extraordinary terms and circuits for the purpose of disposing of
such cases. The governor may thereupon make such assignment, and the
judges assigned must hold the courts accordingly.

§ 460. (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1858.) Appeals from final dea-ees, by a single
judge, in supreme court, in suits in equity pending on July 1, 1847, when
io be taken.
An appeal may be taken from any final decree entered upon the direc
tion of a single judge, in any suit in equity, pending in the supreme court,
on the first day of July, one thousand eight hundred and forty -seven, at
;my time before the first day of November, one thousand eight hundred
and fifty-two. But this provision shall not apply to cases where a rehearing
lias already been had or ordered, or to the case of a decree entered before
the passage of this act, and to review which no attempt in good faith has
been, or shall have been made within thirty days after notice of the entry
of such decree. Such appeal shall be taken in the manner provided in
sections 327 and 348. In all cases of appeal to the court of appeals, in
actions which were originally commenced in the late court of chancery of
this State, the court of appeals shall review the cause upon the facts aud
the law, without any statement or specification of facts found, or any
exception taken, at the trial of any or either of them. And it shall be,
and is hereby declared to be, the duty of the court of appeals, in any and
all such cases, to review the whole matter upon the evideuce as well as
the law. 

§ 461. Issues of fact in county court or common pleas before July 1,
1848, how tried.
Au issue of fact joined in a county court, or court of common pleas,
before the first day of July, one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight,
or then pending in that court on appeal, shall be tried by a jury, unless
the parties otherwise agree.

§ 462. [383.] Definition of "real property."
The words "real property," as used in this act, are co-extensive with
lands, tenements and hereditaments.
§ 463. [384.] Definition of " personal property ."
The words "personal property," as used in this act, include money,
goods, chattels, things In action, and evidences of debt.

§ 464. [385.] Definition of "property."
The word " property," as used in this aot, includes property, real and
personal.

§ 465. [386.J Definition of "district."
The word " district," as used in this act. signifies judicial district, except
when otherwise specified.
§ 466. [387.] Definition of "clerk."
The word " clerk," as used in this act, signifies the clerk of the court
where the action is pending, and in the supreme court, the clerk of the county
mentioned in the title of the complaint, or in another county to which the
court may have changed the place of trial, unless otherwise specified

§ 467. Rule of strict construction of statutes inappliable to this act.
The rule of common law, that statutes in derogation of that law are to
be strictly construed, has no application to this act.
§ 468. [388. J (Am'd 1849.) /Statutory provisions inconsistent with this
act repealed.
All statutory provisions inconsistent with this act are repealed ; but
this repeal shall not revive a statute or law which may have been repealed
or abolished by the provisions hereby repealed. And all rights of action
given or secured by existing laws may be prosecuted in the manner pro
vided by this act. If a case shall arise in which au acti n for the enforce
ment or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, can
not be had under this act, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted so
far as may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice.

§ 469. [389.1 (Am'd 1849.) Rules and practice inconsistent with this
act abrogated.
The present rules and practice of the courts, in civil actions, iuconsist
ent with this act are abrogated ; but, where consistent with this act, they
shall continue in force, subject to the power of the respective courts to
relax, modify, or alter the same.

§ 470. (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Judges of supreme court to make general rules.
The judges of the supreme court, of the superior court of the city of
New York, and of the court of common pleas for the city and county of
New York, shall meet in general session at thecapitol in the city of Albany,
on the first Wednesday in August, 1852, and every two years thereafter,
and at such sessions shall revise their general rules, aud make such amend
ments thereto and such further rules not inconsistent with this Code, as
may be necessary to carry it into full effect. The rules so made shall gov
ern the supreme court, the superior court of the city of New York, the
court of common pleas of the city and county of New York, and the
county courts so far as the same may be applicable.

§ 471. [390.] (Am'd 1849, 1852, 1862, 1863.) This act not to affect certain
proceedings and statutory provisions.
Until .the legislature shall otherwise provide, the second part of this
act shall not affect proceedings upou mandamus, or prohibition, nor
appeals from surrogates' courts, except that the costs on such appeal shall
be regulated and allowed in the manner provided in section 318 of this
act ; nor any special statutory remedy not heretofore obtained by action,
nor any existing statutory provisions relating to actions, not inconsistent
with this act, and in substance" applicable to the actions hereby provided ;
nor any proceedings provided for by chapter 5, of the second part of the
revised statutes, or by the sixth and eighth titles of chapter 5 of the third
part of those statutes, or by chapter 8 of the same part, excluding the
Becond and twelfth titles thereof, or by the first title of chapter 9 of the
same part; except that when, in consequence of any such proceeding, a
civil action shall be brought, such action shall be conducted in conformity
to this act ; and except, also, that where any particular provision of the titles
and chapters enumerated in this section shall be plainly inconsistent with
this act, such provision shall be deemed repealed.
In actions or proceedings by mandamus, amendments of any mistakes
in the process, pleadings or proceedings therein may be allowed, and shall
be made in conformity to the provisions of chapter 6, title 6 160— 177 j,
of the second part of the Code of Procedure.

§ 472. Certain parts of revised and other statutes not repealed.
Nothing in this act contained shall be taken to repeal section 23, of
article 2, of title 5, of chapter 6, part third of the revised statutes, or to
repeal an act to extend the exemption of household furniture and working
tools from distress for rent and sale under execution, passed April eleventh,
one thousand eight hundred and forty-two.
§ 473. [391.] (Am'd 1849.) This act, when to take effect.
This act shall take effect on the first day of July, onfe thousand eight
hundred and forty-eight, except that sections 22, 23, 24 and 25 shall take
effect immediately.

