AN ACT To Establish a Code of Civil Procedure. The People of the State of New-York, represented in Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows: 

PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS. 

This act to be known as the code of civil procedure, of the State of New-York.
Division of the code, into four parts.
Rule of construction of this code.
Code, not retroactive, unless where expressly declared.
Judicial remedies, defined.
Division of judicial remedies, into actions and special proceedings.
Definition of an action.
Definition of a special proceeding.
Division of actions, into civil and criminal.
Civil actions arise out of obligations or injuries.
Definition of an obligation.
Definition of an injury.
Definition of an injury to property.
Definition of an injury to the person.
Out of what a criminal action arises.
Definition of a civil action.
Definition of a criminal action.
Civil and criminal remedies not merged in each other. 

§ 1. This act shall be known as the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of New-York.

§ 2. This Code is divided into four parts: The first relates to the courts of justice: The second relates to civil actions: The third relates to special proceedings of a civil nature: The fourth relates to evidence.

§ 3. The rule of the common law, that statutes in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no application to this Code. The Code establishes the law of the state, respecting the subjects to which it relates; and its provisions, and all proceedings under it, are to be liberally construed, with a view to promote its objects, and to assist the parties in obtaining justice.

§ 4. No part of this code is retroactive, unless expressly so declared.

§ 5. Judicial remedies are such as are administered by the courts of justice, or by judicial officers empowered for that purpose, by the constitution and statutes of this state.

§ 6. These remedies are divided into two classes: 1. Actions: and 2. Special proceedings.

§ 7. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice, by which one party prosecutes another, for the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.

§ 8. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.

§ 9. Actions are of two kinds: 1. Civil: and 2. Criminal.

§ 10. A civil action arises out of, 1. An obligation: 2. An injury.

§ 11. An obligation is a legal duty, by which one person is bound to the performance of an act towards another, and arises from, 1. The contract of the parties; or 2. The operation of law, as in the case of a statute or judgment.

§ 12. An injury is of two kinds: 1. To the person: and 2. To property.

§ 13. An injury to property consists in depriving its owner of the benefit of it, which is done by taking, withholding, deteriorating, or destroying it.

§ 14. Every other injury is an injury to the person.

§ 15. A criminal action arises out of an act or omission forbidden by law, and to which is annexed, upon conviction, either of the following punishments: 1. Death: 2. Imprisonment: 3. Fine: 4. Removal from office; or 5. Disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under this state.

§ 16. A civil action is prosecuted by one party against another, for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong.

§ 17. A criminal action is prosecuted by the state, as a party, against a person charged with a public offense, for the punishment thereof.

§ 18. When the violation of a right admits of both a civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not merged in the other. 

PART I. OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

Of their organization and jurisdiction.
Of judicial officers.
Of persons specially invested with powers of a judicial nature.
Of the ministerial officers of the courts of justice.
Of persons specially invested with ministerial powers, relating to the courts of justice.

TITLE I. OF THE ORGANIZATION AND JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

The courts of justice, in general.
The court for the trial of impeachments.
The court of appeals.
The supreme court, including the circuits.
The superior court of the city of New-York.
The court of common pleas of the city of New-York.
The courts of oyer and terminer.
The county courts.
The courts of sessions.
The city courts.
The justices’ courts.
The marine court of the city of New-York.
The police courts.
The courts of conciliation.
General provisions respecting the courts of justice.

CHAPTER I. THE COURTS OF JUSTICE, IN GENERAL.

The several courts of this state.
They are courts of record, except that some of them are courts not of record for certain purposes.

§ 19. The following are the courts of justice of this state: 1. The court for the trial of impeachments: 2. The court of appeals: 3. The supreme court, including the circuits: 4. The superior court of the city of New-York: 5. The court of common pleas of the city of New-York: 6. The courts of oyer and terminer: 7. The county courts: 8. The surrogates’ courts: 9. The courts of sessions: 10. The city courts of the cities of Albany, Brooklyn, Buffalo, Hudson, Oswego, Troy and Utica: 11. The justices’ courts: 12. The marine court of the city of New-York: 13. The police courts: 14. The courts of conciliation.

§ 20. These courts are courts of record; except that the justices’ and police courts are deemed inferior courts not of record, within the section of the constitution providing for the removal of justices of the peace and judges or justices of inferior courts not of record, and their clerks, by such county, city or state courts as may be prescribed by law, but for no other purpose.

CHAPTER II. THE COURT FOR THE TRIAL OF IMPEACHMENTS.

Its jurisdiction.
Members of the court.
Who to preside.
Clerk and officers of the court.
Court, when to meet.
Oath of the members.
Compensation of the members and officers of the court.

§ 21. The court for the trial of impeachments has power to try impeachments, when presented by the assembly, of all civil officers of the state, except justices of the peace, justices of justices’ courts, police justices, and their clerks, for willful and corrupt misconduct in office.

§ 22. The court is composed of the president of the senate, the senators, or a majority of them, and the judges of the court of appeals, or a majority of them. But on the trial of an impeachment against the governor, the lieutenant-governor cannot act as a member of the court.

§ 23. The president of the senate, or in case of his impeachment, death or absence, the chief judge of the court of appeals, or in the absence of both, such other member as the court may elect, is the presiding judge of the court.

§ 24. The clerk and officers of the senate, are the clerk and officers of the court for the trial of impeachments.

§ 25. There are no stated terms of this court; but upon the delivery of an impeachment from the assembly, the president of the senate must cause the court to be summoned to meet at the capitol in the city of Albany, on a day not less than thirty nor more than sixty days from the day of the delivery of the articles of impeachment.

§ 26. At the time and place appointed, and before the court proceeds to act on the impeachment, the clerk must administer to the presiding judge, and the presiding judge to each of the members of the court then present, an oath or affirmation truly and impartially to hear, try and determine the impeachment; and no member of the court can act or vote upon the impeachment or any question arising thereon, without having taken such oath or affirmation.

§ 27. When the court is held during the recess of the legislature, the president of the senate, the senators, and the clerk and officers of the court are entitled to the same compensation for their attendance thereon, and for travelling to and from the place where it is held, as is allowed them at a meeting of the senate.

CHAPTER III. THE COURT OF APPEALS.

Its jurisdiction.
May reverse, affirm or modify, judgment or order appealed from.
The judges.
The chief judge.
Number of judges necessary for the transaction of business.
Concurrence of five judges, necessary to pronounce judgment. If five do not concur, case must be reheard.
Terms of the court.
Places of holding the court.
Publication of order, appointing places of holding the court. 

§ 28. The court of appeals has exclusive jurisdiction to review, upon appeal, every actual determination hereafter made, at a general term, by the supreme court, by the superior court or court of common pleas of the city of New-York, in the following cases, and no other: 1. In a judgment in an action commenced therein. or brought there from another court ; and upon the appeal from that judgment, to review any intermediate order involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the judgment: 2. In an order affecting a substantial right, made in such action, when such order in effect determines the action, and prevents a judgment, from which as appeal might be taken: 3. In a final order, affecting a substantial right, made in a special proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action, after judgment: But the appeal given by this section is not allowed in an action originally commenced in a justice’s court, or in the marine court of the city of New-York.

§ 29. In addition to the jurisdiction conferred by the last section, this court has jurisdiction of all cases pending in the late court for the correction of errors, on the first Monday of July, 1847, and on that day transferred to this court by the constitution, and now remaining undetermined.

§ 30. This court may reverse, affirm, or modify the judgment or order appealed from; and its judgment must be remitted to the court below, to be enforced according to law.

§ 31. This court is composed of eight judges, of whom four are elected by the electors of the state for eight years, and four selected from the class of judges of the supreme court having the shortest time to serve, as prescribed by special statutes.

§ 32. The judge elected by the electors of the state, and having the shortest time to service, is for the time being, chief judge.

§ 33. The presence of six judges is necessary for the transaction of business; but any one or more of the judges may adjourn the court from day to day or for the term, which the same effect as if all were present.

§ 34. The concurrence of five judges is necessary, to pronounce a judgement. If five do not concur, the case must be reheard.

§ 35. There are six terms in each year, for the hearing of appeals; to commence on the first Tuesday of January, March, May, July, September and November, and to continue until the fourth Saturday thereafter, inclusive, unless all the causes ready for hearing be sooner heard. They may, however, be continued as much long as in the opinion of the court the public interests require. Additional terms may also be held, by order of the court.

§ 36. The places of holding the terms must be appointed by the court, by an order entered upon the minutes, which may be made annually, before the first day of December. When made, it shall remain in force during the succeeding year, and until changed by another appointment.

§ 37. The court may, however, be held in any other building than a court-house, and at a different place in the same city or town from that appointed; and may be adjourned from the city or town where it is appointed to be held, to any other city or town.

§ 38. The clerk must cause a copy of the order mentioned in section 36, to be published in the state paper at least once in each week, for three weeks before the holding of a term, in pursuance thereof. The expense of the publication is payable out of the treasury of the state.

CHAPTER IV. THE SUPREME COURT, INCLUDING THE CIRCUITS.

Rules of common law and statutes now in force, conferring or defining jurisdiction of this court, abrogated and repealed.
Jurisdiction of this court, original and appellate.
Its original jurisdiction.
Its appellate jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction transferred to it, under the constitution.
Jurisdiction transferred to it, of actions in the late mayor’s court of the city of Rochester.
Division of the state into eight judicial districts, and number of judges for each.
Court distributed into general and special terms, and circuits.
Business of the general terms.
Business of the special terms.
Business of the circuits.
General term, to be held by at least three judges, and special term of circuit, by one or more of them.
General and special terms and circuits, may be held by judges elected in any district. 
Presiding judge at a general term.
If presiding judge do not attend, judge to preside, how designated.
Number of judges at general term, necessary to pronounce judgment.
Duration of general terms, and circuits.
Judge holding circuit, to hold a special term. Its duration or adjournment.
Court always open before each judge, for certain purposes.
Transaction of business by judges out of court, duty of judges in first judicial district, in this respect.
Times and places of holding general and special terms and circuits, to continue as at present until December 31, 1850.
Number of general and special terms and circuits in each year.
Times and places of holding them, and judges by whom held, how appointed.
Extraordinary general and special terms and circuits how appointed.
Place of holding general and special terms and circuits.
In case of inability of judge to hold them, designation of another judge for that purpose.
Publication of appointment of time and place of holding general and special terms and circuits. 

§ 39. All rules of the common law and all statutes now in force, conferring or defining the jurisdiction of the supreme court, are abrogated and repealed, and it has no other jurisdiction than that prescribed in the next five sections. But the repeal contained in this section does not affect its jurisdiction of actions or proceedings now pending, or heretofore had therein, nor does it any judgment or order already made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 40. The jurisdiction of this court is of two kinds: 1. Original: and 2. Appellate.

§ 41. Its original jurisdiction extends to all civil actions and special proceedings, of which exclusive jurisdiction is not conferred upon another court or officer, by the constitution or by this code.

§ 42. Its appellate jurisdiction extends to reviewing, upon appeal, every actual determination, in the following cases: 1. In a final judgment at a general term of a county or city court, in a civil action commenced therein, or brought there from another court; and upon the appeal from that judgment, to review any intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment: 2. In an intermediate order affecting a substantial right made in such action, involving the construction of the constitution or of a provision of this code: 3. In a final order, affecting a substantial right, made by a county or city court, in a special proceeding or upon a summary application in an action, after judgment: 4. In a judgment of a court of oyer and terminer, a court of sessions, or a city court, in a criminal action: 5. In a final order made by either of the courts mentioned in the last subdivision, affecting a substantial right, made in a special proceeding of a criminal nature: 6. In an order or judgment of a surrogate’s court, in the cases prescribed by statute: 7. In a final order or decision of a judicial officer, or of an officer or body invested with powers of a judicial nature, in the cases prescribed in this code.

§ 43. In addition to the jurisdiction conferred by the last two sections, this court has the jurisdiction heretofore transferred to it, 1. Of all suits and proceedings now undetermined, and which were pending on the first Monday of July, 1847, in the late supreme court and court of chancery, and in the late courts of common pleas, except in suits originally commenced in justices’ courts: 2. To enforce the orders, judgments and decrees of those courts, rendered before that day, or to exercise such other powers in respect thereto, as it might exercise, if they had been made or rendered by this court.

§ 44. This court has also jurisdiction of all civil actions now determined, and which were pending in the late mayor’s court of the city of Rochester on the thirtieth day of April, 1849, and of all proceedings incident to judgments rendered in that court, in those actions, on or before that day.

§ 45. The state is divided into eight judicial districts, of which the city of New-York is the first, the others being created by special statutes; in each of which there are four judges of this court, and as many more in the first district as may be from time to time authorized by law, but not to exceed in the whole, such number in proportion to its population, as shall be in conformity with the number of such judges in the residue of the state, in proportion to its population.

§ 46. This court is distributed into general and special terms and circuit courts; the latter of which are in this code denominated circuits.

§ 47. The general terms are devoted to the hearing and determination, 1. Of cases now pending in this court for review, in actions or special proceedings commenced therein or brought there from another court, or transferred from the late supreme court or court of chancery, as provided in section 43: 2. Of cases hereafter brought into this court for review, and of appeals from a single judge of this court, as provided in this code: 3. Of controversies submitted without action, as provided in this code: 4. Of questions incidental to the hearing and determination of the cases mentioned in this section: 5. Of such other questions as are prescribed by other provisions of this code.

§ 48. The special terms are devoted, 1. To the hearing and determination of applications, upon failure to answer, and upon complaint and answer: 2. To the hearing and determination of all actions or proceedings now pending in this court, except upon an issue of fact or for review: 3. To the trial of issues of law now pending, or hereafter joined, in actions or proceedings in this court: 4. To the hearing and determination of motions in those actions or proceedings; 5. To the hearing and determination of applications ibr judgment, upon special verdicts: 6. To the hearing and determination of cases reserved for argument or further consideration: 7. To the hearing and determination of all other questions, not assigned to the general terms or circuits. exclusively.

§ 49. The circuits are devoted to the trial, 1. Of issues of fact now pending or hereafter joined, in actions or proceedings in this court: 2. Of all other questions of fact, ordered by the court to be tried by a jury.

§ 50. A general term must be held by at least three of the judges: and a special term or circuit may be held by one or more of them.

§ 51. The general and special terms and circuits may be held by the judges elected in any of the judicial districts.

§ 52. One of the judges of the first class elected in each district, unless he be a judge of the court of appeals, or elected or appointed to fill a vacancy, or in either of those events, one of the judges of the second class, must preside at a general term.

§ 53. If a presiding judge do not attend, any three of the judges present may, by an order entered upon the minutes, designate one of their number, to preside during the absence of a presiding judge.

§ 54. The concurrence of a majority of the judges holding a general term, is necessary to pronounce a judgment. If a majority do not concur, the case must be reheard.

§ 55. The general terms and circuits must be held as long as, in the opinion of the judge or judges holding them, the public interests require.

§ 56. The judge holding a circuit must at the same time hold a special term, and continue it until the adjournment of the circuit, or longer, if the public interests require; or he may adjourn it to another time and place in the county.

§ 57. In addition to these special terms, the court is always open, before each of the judges, for the hearing of motions, applications for judgment upon failure to answer, and upon complaint and answer, and for the trial of issues of law. But a judge who appoints for that purpose a certain day in each week when not sitting at a general term or circuit, is not required to hear a contested motion or trial at any other time.

§ 58. The judges must also at all reasonable times, when not engaged in holding court, transact such other business as may be done out of court. One of the judges elected in the first judicial district, to be designated from time to time, among themselves, must attend for that purpose at the city hall in the city of New-York, on every judicial day, from ten o’clock in the forenoon until three o’ clock in the afternoon, and longer, if the business require it; and every proceeding commenced before one of those judges, may be continued before another, with the same effect as if commenced before him.

§ 59. The times and places of holding the general and special terms and circuits, shall continue as at present prescribed, until the thirty-first day of December, 1850, inclusive, and no longer.

§ 60. There must be as many general terms annually, not less than four in each judicial district, and as many special terms and circuits annually, in each county, as are sufficient for the transaction of the business.

§ 61. There must be a general session of the judges of the supreme court at the capitol in the city of Albany, on the first Monday of August, 1851, and on the first Monday of August in every second year thereafter, at which session the judges shall make such general rules as may be necessary, pursuant to section 186, and shall also appoint the times and places of holding the general and special terms and circuits for the succeeding two years, commencing on the first of January thereafter, and designating the judges to hold the same. The appointment so made, must be such, that for each general term there shall be designated at least one judge not elected in the district where the court is held.

§ 62. The governor, whenever in his opinion the public interests require, may appoint extraordinary general and special terms and circuits, and designate the judges by whom they are to be held, who shall hold them accordingly.

§ 63. The place appointed in each of the counties, for holding the general and special terms and circuits, must be the court house therein.

§ 64. In case of the inability for any cause, of a judge assigned for that purpose, to hold a special term or circuit, or sit at a general term, any other judge may do so; and the governor may, if necessary, assign the judge for that purpose, who must do so accordingly.

§ 65. Every appointment made as provided in sections 61 and 62, must be immediately transmitted to the secretary of state, who must cause it to be published in the state paper, at least once in each week, for three weeks, before the holding of a court in pursuance thereof. The expense of the publication is payable out of the treasury of the state.

CHAPTER V. THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK.

The court continued.
Its jurisdiction of actions and proceeding, where cause thereof arose, or subject is situated in the city of New-York.
Its jurisdiction of other civil actions.
Its jurisdiction of suits heretofore transferred to it.
Transfer hereafter of suits in supreme court, in what cases, and how made.
Effect of the order of transfer.
Number of judges of the court, and their names of office.
Chief justice, how designated.
Distribution of the court into general, special and trial terms.
Business of the general terms.
Business of the special terms.
Business of the trial terms.
General terms to be held by at least two judges, and special terms by one only.
Who to preside at a general term.
Number of judges necessary to pronounce judgment.
Number of terms in each year.
Place of holding the court.
Terms now prescribed, to continue till December 31, 1850.
Appointment of terms thereafter, by whom and how made.

§ 66. The court known as the superior court of the city of New-York, is continued, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next five sections, and no other. But nothing contained in this section affects its jurisdiction of actions or proceedings, now pending therein, nor does it affect any judgment or order already made, nor any proceeding already taken.

§ 67. This court has jurisdiction of the following actions and proceedings, when the cause thereof arises or the subject thereof is situated in the city of New-York: 1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination in any form, of such right or interest, and for injuries to real property: 2. For the partition of real property: 3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property: 4. For the recovery of personal property, distrained for any cause: 5. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute: 6. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a person who by his command or in his aid, does anything touching the duties of the office: 7. For the admeasurement of dower in real property: 8. For the sale of the real property of an infant: 9. To compel a specific performance, by an infant heir or other person, of a contract respecting real property, made by a person who has died before the performance thereof: 10. For the mortgage or sale, on the application of a religious corporation, of its real property, and the appropriation of the proceeds thereof.

§ 68. This court has jurisdiction, also, in all other civil actions, whether the cause of action arise, or the subject of the action be situated in the city of New-York, or not, 1. In an action arising on contract, when one or more of several defendants reside in that city, or occupy a tenement therein for the transaction of their ordinary business: 2. In an action for any other cause, when all the defendants reside in that city, or occupy a tenement therein for the transaction of their ordinary business, or are personally served with the summons in that city: 3. In an action arising on contract, when one or more of several defendants jointly liable thereon reside in, or are personally served with the summons, or occupy a tenement for the transaction of their ordinary business in that city: 4. In an action arising on contract, when all the defendants reside out of the state, but one or more of them has property in that city: 5. When the defendant is a corporation created under the laws of this state, and transacts its general business, or keeps an office, or has an agency established for the transaction of business in the city of New-York, or is established by law therein: or 6. When the defendant is a corporation, created by or under the laws of another state, government or country, and has property in the city of New-York, or an agency established therein, and the action is for the recovery of money upon a cause of action arising in that city.

§ 69. The jurisdiction of this court also extends to such civil suits in the supreme court, commenced before the first day of July, 1848, and at issue on or before the first day of July, 1849, as are now transferred to this court pursuant to statute, and to such other civil suits in the supreme court, as may be transferred thereto, as provided in the next section.

§ 70. Any such suit, (except those brought to the supreme court, for the review of a judgment of the superior court or court of common pleas of the city of New-York,) which may be upon the calendar of the supreme court, at a general or special term in the city of New York, may, by the order of the court upon whose calendar it is, be transferred to the superior court of the city of New-York, at any day before the first day of January, 1851.

§ 71. On filing with the clerk of this court a certified copy of the order made pursuant to the last section, this court becomes, vested with as full jurisdiction of the action or proceeding transferred, and may exercise the same powers in relation to any proceeding therein, as the supreme court might have exercised, if the suit transferred had remained in that court.

§ 72. There are six judges of this court, elected by the electors of the city and county of New-York, who are respectively known as the chief justice and associate judges of the superior court of the city of New-York.

§ 73. The present chief justice shall continue to act as such, until his office shall expire or become vacant. In either of these events, the judges then in office shall, by an order entered upon the minutes, designate one of their number as chief justice, who shall act as such until his office shall expire or become vacant; and so on, from time to time, as often as the office of the judge designated as chief justice shall expire or become vacant.

§ 74. This court is distributed into general, special and trial terms.

§ 75. The general terms are devoted to the hearing and determination, 1. Of appeals now pending or hereafter brought in actions in this court, as provided in this code: 2. Of cases brought to the supreme court for review, and transferred from a general term thereof, as provided in sections 69 and 70: 3. Of cases now pending, for the review of judgments of the marine court of the city of New-York, or of the justices’ court in that city: 4. Of controversies submitted without action, as provided in this code: 5. Of questions incidental to the hearing and determination of the cases mentioned in this section: 6. Of issues of law, and motions for new trials, in suits pending in this court, on the first day of July, 1848. 7. Of such other questions as are prescribed by the provisions of this code.

§ 76. The special terms are devoted, 1. To the hearing and determination of applications for judgment upon failure to answer; and upon complaint and answer: 2. To the hearing and determination of cases transferred by the supreme court at a general term, as provided in sections 69 and 70, except those pending upon an issue of fact or for review: 3. To the hearing and determination of cases transferred by the supreme court at a special term, as provided in sections 69 and 70: 4. To the trial of issues of law, now pending or hereafter joined, in actions commenced in this court: 5. To the hearing and determination of applications for judgment upon special verdicts: 6. To the hearing and determination of cases reserved for argument or further consideration: 7. To the hearing and determination of motions, in actions or proceedings in this court: 8. To the hearing and determination of all other questions not assigned to the general or trial terms, exclusively.

§ 77. The trial terms are devoted to the trial, 1. Of issues of fact now pending or hereafter joined in actions in this court: 2. Of questions of fact in those actions, or in any other proceeding, which are ordered by this court to be tried by a jury.

§ 78. The general terms must be held by at least two, and the special and trial terms by one only, of the judges.

§ 79. The chief justice, if he be present, must preside at a general term. If he be not present, the judges holding the term may designate one of their number to preside, and he shall preside accordingly during the absence of the chief justice.

§ 80. The concurrence of a majority of the judges holding a general term is necessary to pronounce a judgment. If a majority do not concur, the case must be reheard.

§ 81. As many general, special and trial terms as the court may appoint, may be held in each year, concurrently or otherwise. They must be held as long as the public interests require.

§ 82. The general, special and trial terms must be held at the city-hall in the city of New-York.

§ 83. The times of holding the general, special and trial terms, shall continue as at present prescribed, until the thirty-first day of December, 1850, inclusive, and no longer.

§ 84. At least thirty days before the first day of January, 1851, the court shall appoint the time of holding the general, special and trial terms for the succeeding year, and until changed by another appointment. A similar appointment may be made annually.

CHAPTER VI. THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK.

The court continued, and name changed.
Its jurisdiction.
Number of the judges of the court, and their names of office.
Chief justice, how designated.
Distribution of the court into general, special and trial terms.
Business of the general terms.
Business of the special terms.
Business of the trial terms.
General terms, to be held by at least two judges, and special terms, by one only.
Who to preside at a general term.
Number of judges necessary to pronounce judgment.
Number of terms in each year.
Place of holding the court.
Terms now prescribed, to continue to December 31, 1850.
Appointment of terms thereafter, by whom and how made.

§ 85. The court known as the court of common pleas for the city and county of New-York, is continued, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next three sections, and no other; and is denominated the court of common pleas of the city of New-York. But nothing contained in this section affects its jurisdiction of actions or proceedings now pending therein, nor does it affect any judgment or order already made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 86. This court has jurisdiction, concurrently with the superior court of the city of New-York, of the actions and proceedings mentioned in sections 67 and 68.

§ 87. This court has jurisdiction also of the following proceedings: 1. To remit fines and forfeited recognizances, in the cases and manner provided in this code; and to continue and discharge the docket of judgments entered upon recognizances: 2. To exercise the powers conferred upon it by statutes, in respect to liens filed in the office of the county clerk, and to control, amend or discharge the same: 3. Of all other special proceedings, in the city and county of New-York, of which the county courts have jurisdiction in their counties: 4. To exercise the powers conferred upon it, by other provisions of this code.

§ 88. This court has also the exclusive power to review, in the first instance, a judgment rendered by the marine court of the city of New-York, or by a justice’s court in that city.

§ 89. The three judges of this court, elected as such, by the electors of the city and county of New-York, and now in office, and their successor, are the only judges of this court. They shall be known as the chief justice and associate judges of the court of common pleas of the city of New-York.

§ 90. The present first judge shall be the chief justice, until his office shall expire or become vacant. In either of these events, the judges then in office shall, by an order entered upon the minutes, designate one of their number as chief justice, who shall act as such until his office shall expire or become vacant; and so on, from time to time, as often as the office of the judge designated as chief justice shall expire or become vacant.

§ 91. This court is distributed into general, special and trial terms.

§ 92. The general terms are devoted to the hearing and determination, 1. Of appeals now pending or hereafter brought in actions in this court, as provided in this code: 2. Of appeals now pending therein or hereafter brought for the review of judgments of the marine court of the city of New-York, or of the justices’ courts in that city: 3. Of controversies submitted without action, as provided in this code: 4. Of questions incidental to the hearing and determination of the cases mentioned in this section: 5. Of issues of law and motions for new trials in suits pending in this court, on the first day of July, 1848:

§ 93. The special terms are devoted, 1. To the hearing and determination of applications for judgment upon failure to answer, and upon complaint and answer: 2. To the trial of issues of law, now pending or hereafter joined, in actions or proceedings commenced in this court: 3. To the hearing and determination of motions in those actions or proceedings: 4. To the hearing and determination of applications for judgment upon special verdicts: 5. To the hearing and determination of cases reserved for argument or further consideration. 6. To all other questions not assigned to the general or trial terms exclusively.

§ 94. The trial terms are devoted to the trial, 1. Of issues of facts now pending or hereafter joined, in actions in this court: 2. Of questions of facts in those actions, or in any other proceeding, ordered by this court to be tried by a jury.

§ 95. The general terms must be held by at least two, and the special and trial terms by one only, of the judges.

§ 96. The chief justice, if he be present, must preside at a general term. If he be not present, the judges holding the term may designate one of their number to preside, and he shall preside accordingly, during the absence of the chief justice.

§ 97. The concurrence of a majority of the judges holding a general term is necessary to pronounce a judgment. If a majority do not concur, the case must be reheard.

§ 98. As many general, special and trial terms as the court may appoint, may be held in each year, concurrently, or otherwise. They must be held as long as the public interests require.

§ 99. The general, special and trial terms must be held at the city hall in the city of New-York.

§ 100. The times of holding the general, special and trial terms, shall continue as at present prescribed, until the thirty-first day of December, 1850, inclusive, and no longer.

§ 101. At least thirty days before the first day of January, 1851, the court must appoint the time of holding the general, special and trial terms, for the succeeding year, and until changed by another appointment. A similar appointment may he made annually.

CHAPTER VII. THE COURTS OF OYER AND TERMINER.

Court of oyer and terminer in each county.
Its jurisdiction.
By whom held.
When and where held, and duration thereof.

§ 102. There is in each of the counties of this state, (except, that for this purpose, Fulton and Hamilton are deemed one county,) a court, denominated the court of oyer and terminer, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next three sections, and no other. But nothing contained in this section, affects its jurisdiction in actions or proceedings now pending therein: nor does it affect any judgment or order already made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 103. The court of oyer and terminer has jurisdiction, 1. To inquire by the intervention of a grand jury, of all public offenses committed or triable in the county: 2. To try and determine any indictment found therein, or which may have been found at the court of sessions of the county, or at a city court within the county, for an offense punishable with death: 3. To try and determine any indictment which may have been found at any of the courts mentioned in the second subdivision of this section, for an offense not punishable with death, and which may be sent or removed to the court of oyer and terminer, if in the opinion of that court, it be proper to be tried therein: 4. To send any indictment found therein, for fence not punishable with death, or to send back any indictment which may have been sent or removed to that court, to the court of sessions of the county, or a city court therein, when in the opinion of the court of oyer and terminer, the same should not be tried in that court: 5. To inquire into the cause of the detention of persons imprisoned in the jail of the county, and make an order for their re-commitment or discharge, or otherwise. according to law: 6. To exercise the powers conferred upon it by the code of criminal procedure.

§ 104. In addition to the jurisdiction conferred by the last section, jurisdiction was transferred to the courts of oyer and terminer in their respective counties, on the first Monday of July, 1847, of all indictments and proceedings then pending in the late courts of oyer and terminer; and also of all indictments and proceedings then pending in the late courts of general sessions of the peace, except in the city of New-York, and except in cases of which the courts of sessions may take cognizance as provided in section 125.

§ 105. Jurisdiction was likewise transferred to this court, in the county of Monroe, on the thirtieth day of April, 1849, of all criminal actions and proceedings then pending in the late mayor’s court of the city of Rochester, and of all proceedings incident to judgments rendered in that court in those actions and proceedings, on or before that day.

§ 106. This court, (except the city and county of New-York,) must be held by a judge of the supreme court, as the presiding judge, together with the county judge, and two justices of the sessions designated, as prescribed by other statutes, or by any two of those officers. If the justices of the sessions, or either of them, be absent at a term of the court of oyer and terrniner, or the office of those justices or either of them be vacant, the county judge may supply the vacancy or deficiency for the term, by designating the requisite number to form the court, from the justices of the peace of the county.

§ 107. In the city and county of New-York, the court of oyer and terminer must be held by a judge of the supreme court, as the presiding judge, together with two of the aldermen of the city of New-York, designated by the common council may by ordinance prescribe.

§ 108. The court of oyer, and terminer must be held at the same place and commenced on the same day with the circuit in the county, and must be continued as long as the public interests require, whether the circuit remain in session or not.

CHAPTER VIII. THE COUNTY COURTS

County court in each county
Its jurisdiction
By whom held.
Terms now prescribed, to continue till December 31, 1850.
Its terms. Court always open for transaction of certain business.
Terms, when held.

§ 109. There is in each of the counties of this state, except the city and county of New-York, a county court, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next two sections, and no other. But nothing contained in this section affects its jurisdiction in actions or proceedings now pending therein; nor does it affect any judgment or order already made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 110. The county court has jurisdiction in the following actions and proceedings, 1. The exclusive power to review, in the first instance, a judgment rendered in a civil action, by a justice’s court in the county: 2. For the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, and the sale of mortgaged premises situated in the county: 3. For the partition of real property situated in the county: 4. For the admeasurement of dower in real property situated in the county: 5. For the sale of the real property of an infant, when the property is situated in the county: 6. To compel a specific performance by an infant heir, or other person, of a contract respecting real property situated in the county, made by a party who has died before the performance thereof: 7. For the mortgage or sale, on the application of a religious corporation, of its real property situated in the county, and the appropriation of the proceeds thereof: 8. To enforce the judgments of the late court of common pleas of the county, in suits originally commenced in justices’ courts, or to exercise such other powers in respect thereto as it might exercise, if they had been rendered by this court: 9. To exercise the powers vested in it by this code, over judgments rendered by justices’ courts, of which transcripts shall have been filed with the county clerk: 10. To exercise the powers conferred by statute upon the late court of common pleas of the county, or the judges thereof, respecting ferries, fisheries, wrecks, physicians, the removal of occupants from state lands, the laying out of railroads through Indian lands, and upon appeal from the determination of commissioners of highways; and to prescribe the manner of exercising such jurisdiction when the provisions of those statutes are inconsistent with the organization of the county court: 11. To remit fines and forfeited recognizances, in the cases and manner provided in this code: 12. To exercise the powers conferred upon it by other provisions of this code.

§ 111. In addition to the jurisdiction mentioned in: the last section, jurisdiction was transferred to the county court on the first Monday of July, 1847, 1. Of proceedings then pending in the late court of common pleas of the county, in suits originally commenced in justices’ courts: 2. To enforce the orders and judgments of the late court of common pleas of the county, rendered before that day, or to exercise such other powers in respect thereto, as it might exercise if they had been made or rendered by this court.

§ 112. The county court is held by the county judge elected in the county, or in case of his inability or at vacancy his office, by the surrogate, or in a county where there is a special county judge, by that officer.

§ 113. The terms of this court in each county, shall continue as at present prescribed, until the thirty-first day of December, 1850, inclusive, and no longer.

§ 114. After that time, a term of the county court, for the trial of issues, must be held in each county, on the first Tuesday of January, March, May, July, September and November, in each year, and must be continued as long, as the public interests require. The court is always open for the transaction of any other business.

§ 115. The terms of the county court must be held at the court house of the county, or if there be more than one, at either or both, as the supervisors may from time to time appoint. The appointment must be made at least thirty days before the holding of a term in pursuance thereof, and published as the supervisors may direct. It shall continue in force until another appointment be made.

CHAPTER IX. THE SURROGATES’ COURTS.

Surrogate’s court in each county.
Its jurisdiction.
By whom held.
Officer holding court, denominated in this code, the surrogate.
Court when held.

§ 116. There is in each county a surrogate’s court, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next three sections, and no other. But nothing contained in this section affects its jurisdiction of proceedings now pending therein; nor does it affect any judgment or order already made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 117. The surrogate’s court has exclusive jurisdiction, in the first instance, in the county, to take proof of wills, 1. When the testator, at or immediately before his death, was an inhabitant of the county, in whatever place he may have died: 2. When the testator, not being an inhabitant of this state, shall have died in the county leaving assets therein: 3. When the testator, not being an inhabitant of this state, shall have died out of the state, leaving assets in the county: 4. When the testator, not being an inhabitant of this state, shall have died out of the state, not leaving assets therein, but where assets thereafter; come into the county: 5. When real property, devised by the testator, is situated in the county, and no other surrogate’s court has gained jurisdiction, under either of the preceding subdivisions of this section.

§ 118. The surrogate’s court has jurisdiction also, 1. To take proof of a will relating to real property situated in the county, when the testator shall have died out of this state, not being an inhabitant thereof; and‘ not leaving assets therein: 2. To grant and revoke letters testamentary and of administration: 3. To direct and control the conduct, and settle the accounts of executors and administrators: 4. To enforce the payment of debts and legacies, and the distribution of the estates of intestates: 5. To order the sale and disposal of the real property of deceased persons: 6. To appoint and remove guardians, to direct and control their conduct and to settle their accounts: 7. To take the care and custody of the person and estate of a lunatic or habitual drunkard residing in the county, and to appoint and remove committees, to direct and control their conduct, and to settle their accounts: 8. To direct the admeasurement of dower: 9. To exercise the powers conferred upon it by other provisions of this code.

§ 119. The jurisdiction acquired by a surrogate’s court over a matter or proceeding, is exclusively of that of another surrogate’s court, except when otherwise provided by this code. And when a guardian is appointed or any other proceeding is commenced, in the surrogate’s court of a particular county, all further proceedings in respect to the same must be continued in that court.

§ 120. The surrogate’s court must be held by the surrogate, in each county having a population exceeding forty thousand, in which the legislature have provided or may provide, for the election of a separate officer to perform the duties or the office of surrogate. In every other county, it must be held by the county judge.

§ 121. In case of the inability of the surrogate, or of a vacancy in his office, the court must be held by the county judge, or if he be unable to act, or his office be vacant, by the special county judge, in a county where there is such an officer. If there be no county judge or special county judge, or he be unable to act, it must be held by the district attorney.

§ 122. The officer by whom a surrogate’s court is held, as authorized by the last two sections, is in this code denominated the surrogate.

§ 123. The surrogate’s court is at all times open for the transaction of business within its jurisdiction; but it is the especial duty of the surrogate, to attend at his office on Monday of each week, and there hold a surrogate’s court.

CHAPTER X. THE COURT OF SESSIONS.

The courts of sessions, in general.
The courts of sessions, other than in the city and county of New-York.
The court of sessions of the city of New-York.

ARTICLE I. THE COURTS OF SESSIONS, IN GENERAL.

Courts of sessions in each county.

§ 124. There is, in each of the counties of this state, a court, denominated a court of sessions, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next two articles, and no other; but nothing contained in this section affects its jurisdiction in actions or proceedings now pending therein; now does it affect any judgment or order already made or proceeding already taken.

ARTICLE II. THE COURTS OF SESSIONS, OTHER THAN IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF NEW-YORK.

Their jurisdiction.
Indictments for offenses punishable with death, to be sent to oyer and terminer.
Other indictments may be sent to oyer and terminer.
By whom held.
When and where held, and their duration. 

§ 125. The courts of sessions embraced in this article have jurisdiction, 1. To inquire, by the intervention of a grand jury, of all public offenses committed or triable in the county: 2. To try and determine indictments found therein, or sent thereto by the court of oyer and terminer of the county, for public offenses not punishable with death: 3. To remove justices of the peace, police justices, and justices of justices’ courts of cities in their respective counties, and their clerks, after due notice and an opportunity of being heard in their defense, for causes to be stated in the order of removal. 4. To hear and determine appeals from orders of justices of the peace, under the provisions of the code of criminal procedure respecting the support of bastards: 5. To examine into the circumstances of persons committed to prison as parents of bastards, and to discharge them in the cases provided by the code of criminal procedure: 6. To hear and determine complaints under the provisions of the code of criminal procedure, respecting masters, apprentices and servants: 7. To review the convictions of disorderly persons actually imprisoned, and to execute the powers conferred and duties imposed by the code of criminal procedure in relation to those persons: 8. To continue or discharge the recognizances, undertakings and bonds of persons bound to keep the peace, or to be of good behavior, or both; and to inquire into or determine the complaints on which they were founded, as provided in the code of criminal procedure: 9. To compel relatives of poor persons and committees of the estates of lunatics, to support such persons and lunatics, in the cases and in the manner prescribed by the code of criminal procedure: 10. To exercise the powers conferred by the code of criminal procedure, in relation to the estates of persons absconding and leaving their families chargeable to the public: 11. To exercise the powers conferred upon them by other provisions of this code, or of the code of criminal procedure.

§ 126. In addition to the jurisdiction conferred by the last section, jurisdiction was transferred to and vested in these courts, in their respective counties, on the first Monday of July, 1847, of all indictments and proceedings similar to those mentioned in the last section, which were then pending in the late courts of general sessions of the peace.

§ 127. When an indictment is found in one of these courts for an offense punishable with death, the court must send it to the court of oyer and terminer of the county.

§ 128. These courts may also send an indictment, found therein and remaining undetermined, for an offense not punishable with death, to the next court of oyer and terminer of the same county, to be determined according to law; but that court, if in its opinion the same is not proper to be tried therein, may remit it back to the court by which it was sent, which must proceed thereon as if it had remained there.

§ 129. These courts must be held by the county judge, together with two justices of the sessions, designated as provided by other statutes. If the justices of the sessions, or either of them, be absent at a term of a court of sessions, or the office of those justices or either of them, be vacant, the county judge may supply the vacancy or deficiency for the term by designating the requisite number to form the court, from the justices of the peace of the county.

§ 130. These courts must be held at the same place and commence on the same day, as the terms of the county courts in their respective, counties, and must be continued as long as the public interests require.

ARTICLE III. THE COURT OF SESSIONS OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK.

This court continued, and name changed.
Its jurisdiction.
Indictments for offenses punishable with death, to be sent to oyer and terminer.
By whom held.
When held, and its duration. Concurrent terms.
When term may be extended.
Where held.

§ 131. The court known as the court of general sessions in and for the city and county of New-York, is continued, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next two sections, and no other, and is denominated the court of sessions of the city of New-York. But nothing contained in this section, affects its jurisdiction of actions or proceedings now pending therein; nor does it affect any judgment or order already made or proceeding already taken.

§ 132. This court has jurisdiction, 1. To inquire, by the intervention of a grand jury, of all public offenses committed or triable in the city and county of New-York: 2. To try and determine any indictment found therein, or sent thereto by the court of oyer and terminer of the city and county of New-York, for a public offense not punishable with death: 3. To remove police justices and justices of the justices courts of the city of New-York, and their clerks, after due notice and an opportunity of being heard in their defense, for causes to be stated in the order of removal: 4. In cases arising in the city and county of New-York, such as are enumerated in subdivisions 4 to 11, both inclusive of section 125.

§ 133. When an indictment is found in this court, for an offense punishable with death, it must be sent to the next court of oyer and terminer of the city and county of New-York.

§ 134. This court must be held, except as provided in the next section, by the recorder or city judge of the city of New-York, or by one of the judges of the court of common pleas of that city, as the presiding judge, together with two of the aldermen of the city, designated, as the common council may by ordinance prescribe. But it is the especial duty of the recorder or city judge to hold the court and preside therein.

§ 135. When the court is convened for the purpose of exercising the jurisdiction conferred by the third subdivision of section 125, it must be held by the recorder or city judge of the city of New-York, and at least one of the judges of the court of common pleas of that city, together with the mayor and aldermen thereof, or a majority of those officers then in office.

§ 136. The court must be held on the first Monday of each month, and may be continued until the fourth Saturday thereafter, inclusive. Concurrent terms may also be held as often as the recorder and city judge may from time to time prescribe, by an order filed with the clerk.

§ 137. If the trial of a cause be commenced before the expiration of the term, the court may be continued beyond the term, till the completion of the trial, and the rendering of judgment on the verdict.

§ 138. This court must be held at such place in the city of New-York, as now is or hereafter may be prescribed, by ordinance, by the common council of that city.

CHAPTER XI. THE CITY COURTS.

These courts continued, and name changed.
The kinds of their jurisdiction.
Their civil jurisdiction.
Their criminal jurisdiction.
Indictment for offenses punishable with death, to be sent to oyer and terminer.
Other indictments may be sent to oyer and terminer.
When indictment found in sessions may be sent to the city court.
By whom held, when exercising civil jurisdiction.
By whom held, when exercising criminal jurisdiction.
When judge unable to hold or preside at court, or disqualified cause how and to what court transferred.
Terms now prescribed, to continue till December 31, 1850.
Appointment of terms thereafter, by whom and how made.

§ 139. The courts known as the mayors’ courts of the cities of Albany, Hudson and Troy, the recorders’ courts of the cities of Buffalo, Utica and Oswego, and the city court of Brooklyn, are continued, with the jurisdiction conferred upon them by the next seven sections and no other: and shall be hereafter known as the city courts of those cities respectively. But nothing contained in this section affects their jurisdiction of actions or proceedings now pending therein, nor does it affect any judgment or order already made or proceeding already taken.

§ 140. The jurisdiction of these courts is of two kinds: 1. Civil: and 2. Criminal.

§ 141. Their civil jurisdiction extends to the following actions and proceedings, where the cause thereof arises or the subject thereof is situated in the city in which the court is established: 1. For the recovery of real property or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or interest, and for injuries to real property: 2. For the partition of real property: 3. For the foreclosure of the mortgage of real property: 4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any cause: 5. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute: 6. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a person who, by his command or in his aid, does anything touching the duties of the office: 7. For the sale of the real property of an infant: 8. For the mortgage or sale, on the application of a religious corporation, of its real property situated in those cities respectively, and the appropriation of the proceeds thereof: 9. To exercise the powers conferred upon it, by other provisions of this code.

§ 142. These courts have civil jurisdiction, also whether the cause of action arises, or the subject of the action is situated in the city in which the court is established or not, in the same cases in which jurisdiction is conferred by section 68, upon the superior court of the city of New-York, applying that provision to the city in which the court is established.

§ 143. When organized as provided in section 148, for the purpose of exercising criminal jurisdiction, these courts have jurisdiction: 1. To inquire by the intervention of a grand jury, of all public offenses committed in the city in which the court is established: 2. To try and determine an indictment found therein, or sent thereto by the court of oyer and terminer of the county, for a public offense not punishable with death, committed in that city.

§ 144. When an indictment is found at a city court, for an offense punishable with death, the court must send the indictment to the next court of oyer and terminer of the county.

§ 145. These courts may also send an indictment found therein and remaining undetermined, for an offense not punishable with death, to the next court of oyer and terminer of the same county, to be determined according to law; but that court, if in its opinion the same is not proper to be tried therein, may remit it back to the court by which it was sent, which must proceed thereon, as if it had remained there.

§ 146. When an indictment is found at a court of oyer and terminer or of sessions, in a county embracing any of the cities in which a city court is established, for an offense not punishable with death, committed in that city, the court in which it was found may send it to the next city court in which it is triable, which must proceed to try and determine the indictment, as if it had been found therein.

§ 147. These courts must be held, for the exercise of their civil jurisdiction, by the following judges: 1. The city courts of the cities of Albany, Buffalo, Hudson, Oswego, Troy, and Utica, by the recorders of those cities: 2. The city court of the city of Brooklyn, by the city judge of that city.

§ 148. They must be held, for the exercise of their criminal jurisdiction, by the respective officers mentioned in the last section, as presiding judge, together with two of the aldermen of the city, designated as the common council may by ordinance prescribe.

§ 149. If the judge authorized to hold or preside at a city court for the exercise of either its civil or criminal jurisdiction, be disqualified from holding the court, as provided in section 188, he must, upon the request of either party, file with the county clerk a certificate, stating the fact constituting the disqualification and directing that the action or proceeding, if civil, be transferred to the supreme court, or if criminal, to the court of oyer and terminer of the county, and it must be transferred accordingly. If he refuse to do so, the supreme court, at a special term in the district, or a judge thereof, may, upon motion after due notice, order the transfer to be made.

§ 150. The times and places of holding the city courts, shall continue as at present prescribed, until the thirty-first day of December, 1850, inclusive, and no longer.

§ 151. Alter that time, a term of each of these courts, for the trial of issues and for the hearing and determination of all matters appertaining to its civil or criminal jurisdiction, must be held, at such times and places in their respective cities as the common council thereof may by ordinance prescribe, and must be continued as long as the public interests require. The court is always open for the transaction of any other business.

CHAPTER XII. THE JUSTICES’ COURTS.

The justices’ courts, in general.
The justices’ courts, held by justices of the peace.
The justices’ courts of the cities of Albany, Hudson and Troy.
The justices’ courts in the city of New-York.

ARTICLE I. THE JUSTICES’ COURTS, IN GENERAL.

Justices’ court continued. Their names.
Their jurisdiction.

§ 152. The courts known as the courts of justices of the peace, the justices’ courts of the cities of Albany, Hudson and Troy, and the justices’ courts of the several justices’ districts in the city of New-York, are continued, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next three sections, and no other, and are in this code denominated justices’ courts. But nothing contained in this section affects their jurisdiction in actions or proceedings now pending therein, nor does it affect any judgment or order already made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 153. These courts have jurisdiction of the following actions and proceedings: 1. Of an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money only, if the sum claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars: 2. Of an action for damages for an injury to the person, or to real property, or for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property, if the damages claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars: 3. Of an action for a penalty, not exceeding one hundred dollars, given by statute: 4. Of an action upon a bond, conditioned for the payment of money, not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed that sum : the judgment to be given for the sum actually due. When the payments are to be made by instalments, an action may be brought for each instalment as it becomes due: 5. Of an action upon a surety bond or undertaking; taken by them, though the penalty or amount claimed exceed one hundred dollars: 6. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant, when the amount confessed does not exceed two hundred and fifty dollars: 7. In the cities of Albany, Hudson, New-York and Troy, of an action, upon the charter or upon a by-law of the corporation of those cities respectively, when the penalty or forfeiture does not exceed one hundred dollars.

§ 154. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section does not extend, however, to a civil action, 1. In which the title to real property shall come in question: 2. Nor for an assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction, or upon a promise to marry: 3. Nor involving a matter of account, when the sum total of the accounts of both parties, proved to the satisfaction of the court, exceeds four hundred dollars: 4. Nor of an action against an executor or administrator, as such.

§ 155. The following actions can, however, be brought in these courts, only when the cause of action, or some part of it, arose in the town, city or district in which they are established, or when the defendant resides, or having absconded from his residence, is found therein, 1. For the recovery of a forfeiture or penalty given by statute: 2. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a person who, by his command or in his aid, does any thing touching the duties of such officer.

ARTICLE II. THE JUSTICES’ COURTS HELD BY JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

Every justice of the peace must hold a justice’s court in his town or city, except as in next two sections.
When disqualified.
When not obliged to hold court. 
Action, in what town or city to be brought.
Courts, where held and when opened.

§ 156. Every justice of the peace must hold a justice’s court in the town or city in which he is elected, denominated a justice’s court of that town or city, except as provided in the next two sections.

§ 157. If the justice be an inn-holder or tavern-keeper, he is disqualified from holding a court as provided in the last section; but if a judgment have been actually rendered by him, before his becoming so disqualified, he may issue execution thereon as in other cases.

§ 158. If he be a member of the legislature, or a county judge, he is not obliged to hold a justice’s court, as provided in section 156, but may do so or not, at his option.

§ 159. An action of which these courts have jurisdiction, as provided in sections 153 to 155, both inclusive, must be brought, 1. In a court held in the town or city in which either the plaintifff or defendant, or one of several plaintifffs or defendants resides, or in another town in the same county, next adjoining the residence of the plaintifff or defendant: 2. If the defendant have absconded from his residence, in a court held in the town or city in which he or his property may be: 3. If the plaintifff or defendant do not reside in the county, it may be brought in a court held in the town or city in which either the plaintifff or defendant may be: 4. If the defendant be a corporation, created under the laws of this state, in a court held in the town or city in which it transacts its general business or keeps an office or has an agency established for the transaction of business, or is established by law.

§ 160. These courts may be held at any place designated by the justice holding the same, in the town or city for which he is elected; and they are always open for the transaction of business.

ARTICLE III. THE JUSTICES’ COURTS OF THE CITIES OF ALBANY, HUDSON AND TROY.

Justices of these courts.
Either of them may hold court.
Courts, where to be held.

§ 161. There are three justices of each of these courts, elected by the electors of the cities in which they are established.

§ 162. Either of the justices of these courts may hold the court in the city in which he is elected.

§ 163. These courts must be held at the places appointed pursuant to law, or if there be none, at such places as may be from time to time appointed by the common council of their cities, at ten o’clock on every judicial day, and must continue in session as long as the public interests require.

ARTICLE IV. THE JUSTICES’ COURTS IN THE CITY OF NEW-YORK.

Justices’ districts in New-York.
Actions, where to be brought.
Justices of these courts.
Court in each district, by whom held.
Proceedings, where justice is disqualified.
Courts, when and where held.

§ 164. The city of New-York is divided into six justices’ districts, in which there shall continue courts denominated the justices’ courts of the first, second, third fourth fifth and sixth districts of that city, respectively.

§ 165. The districts mentioned in the last section are as follows: 1. The first district embraces the first, second, third and fifth wards: 2. The second district embraces the fourth, sixth and fourteenth wards: 3. The third district embraces the eighth and ninth wards: 4. The fourth district embraces the tenth, fifteenth and seventeenth wards: 5. The fifth district embraces the seventh, eleventh and thirteenth wards: 6. The sixth district embraces the twelfth, sixteenth and eighteenth wards:

§ 166. An action of which these courts have jurisdiction, as provided in sections 153 to 155, both inclusive, must be brought, 1. In a court held in the district in which either the plaintifff or defendant, or one of several plaintifffs or defendants, resides: 2. If none of the parties reside in the city of New-York, in any of these courts, at the election of the plaintifff: 3. If the defendant be a corporation created under the laws of this state, in a court held in the district in which it transacts its general business or keeps an office or has an agency established for the transaction of business, or is established by law.

§ 167. There is a justice of each of these courts, elected by the electors of the district in which it is established.

§ 168. The justice elected in each district must hold the court therein; or if his office be vacant, it may be held by a justice elected in another district, to be designated by the common council.

§ 169. If a justice be disqualified from holding the court as provided in section 188, he must, upon the request of either party, file with the county clerk, a certificate, stating the facts constituting the disqualification, and directing that the action be transferred to the justice’s court of another district designated by him; and it shall be transferred accordingly. If he refuse to do so, the supreme court at a special term in the same judicial district, or a judge thereof, may, upon motion, after due notice, order the transfer to be made.

§ 170. These courts must be held at the places in their districts, now or hereafter appointed by the common council of the city of New-York, at such hours on every judicial day, as the respective justices may direct, and must continue in session as long as the public interests require.

CHAPTER XIII. THE MARINE COURT OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK.

This court continued.
Its jurisdiction.
Judges of the court.
Court, when and where held.

§ 171. The court, known as the marine court of the city of New-York, is continued, with the jurisdiction conferred by the next section, and no other. But nothing contained in this section affects its jurisdiction of actions or proceedings now pending therein; nor does it affect any judgment or order already made, or proceeding already taken.

§ 172. The marine court of the city of New-York has jurisdiction of the following actions and proceedings: 1. Of the actions and proceedings enumerated in sections 153 to 155, both inclusive: 2. Of an action between a person belonging to a vessel in the merchant service, and the owner, master or commander thereof, demanding compensation for the performance, or damages for the violation of a contract for services on board the vessel, during a voyage performed, in whole or in part, or intended to be performed by the vessel, though the sum demanded exceed one hundred dollars. 3. Of an action by or against a person belonging to or on board of a vessel in the merchant service, for an assault and battery or false imprisonment, committed on board the vessel, upon the high seas, or in a place without the United States, of which the ordinary courts of this state have jurisdiction, though the damages demanded exceed one hundred dollars. But nothing in this or the last subdivision of this section, gives this court power to proceed, in any of the cases therein referred to, as a court of admiralty or maritime jurisdiction.

§ 173. There are two judges of this court, elected by the electors of the city and county of New-York. Either of them may hold the court.

§ I74. The court must be held at the city hall in the city of New-York at ten o'clock on every judicial day, and must continue in session as long as the public interests require.

CHAPTER XIV. THE POLICE COURTS.

Courts of special sessions abolished, and police courts substituted.
Their jurisdiction.
When and by whom held in the city and county of New-York.
In the other counties.

§ 175. The courts of special sessions now existing, or which may be organized in pursuance of any statutory provision now in force, are abolished; and courts to be known as the police courts, as organized by this code, are substituted in their stead.

§ 176. The police courts have jurisdiction in the cases prescribed in the next section, of the following public offenses committed in their respective counties: 1. Petit larceny, not charged as a second offense: 2. Assault and battery, not charged to have been committed riotously, or upon a public officer in the execution of his duties: 3. Poisoning, killing, maiming, wounding or cruelly beating an animal: 4. Racing animals within one mile of the place where a court is held: 5. Committing a willful trespass, or severing any produce or article from the freehold, not amounting to grand larceny: 6. Selling poisonous substances, not labelled, as required by statute: 7. Maliciously removing, altering, defacing or cutting down monuments or marked trees: 8. Maliciously breaking, destroying or removing mile-stones, mile-boards or guide-boards, or altering an inscription thereon.

§ 177. The jurisdiction conferred upon the police courts, by the last section, can, however, be exercised only in the following cases: 1. When the party charged, upon his being brought before a magistrate, requests to be tried by a police court: or, 2. When, not having made such request, and after having been required by the magistrate to give bail for his appearance at the next court of sessions in the county, he omits to do so for twenty-four hours.

§ 178. In the city and county of New-York, these courts must be held at each of the police offices now or hereafter designated by the common council, on Tuesday and Friday of each week, by two of the police justices of that city, and by no other officer.

§ 179. In the other counties, the police court must be held by the magistrate issuing the warrant of arrest, or before whom the defendant is brought to answer the charge.

CHAPTER XV. THE COURTS OF CONCILIATION.

Courts established.
Their jurisdiction.

§ 180. Tribunals are hereby established in the several counties of this state, to be known as the courts of conciliation.

§ 181. The jurisdiction of these courts, and the manner of its exercise, is prescribed in subsequent parts of this code.

CHAPTER XVI. GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

Publicity of their proceedings.
Their incidental powers and duties.
Particular disqualifications of judges.
Judicial days.
Particular provisions respecting the places of holding the courts of justice.
Proceedings, when judges do not attend to hold a court.
Seals.

ARTICLE I. PUBLICITY OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

Sittings of courts to be public.
Trial of civil cases by be in private, upon agreement of parties and order of court.

§ 182. The sittings of every court of justice, other than a court of conciliation, are public, except as provided in the next section.

§ 183. Upon the agreement of the parties to a civil action, or a proceeding of a civil nature, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes, the court may direct the trial of an issue of law or of fact, or any other proceeding therein, to be private; and upon such direction, all persons shall be excluded, except the officers of the court, the parties, their witnesses, and counsel.

ARTICLE II. INCIDENTAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CXJURTS OF JUSTICE.

Powers of courts respecting the conduct of judicial proceedings.
Court of appeals and supreme court may make rules of practice, to carry this code into effect.
Rules of supreme court, to what courts applicable.

§ 184. Every court, except a court of conciliation, has power, 1. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence: 2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or before a person or body empowered to conduct a judicial investigation, under its authority: 3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it or its officers: 4. To compel obedience to its judgments, orders, and process, and to the orders of a judge out of court, in an action or proceeding pending therein: 5. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter, appertaining thereto: 6. To compel the attendance of persons, to testify, in an action or proceeding pending therein, in the cases and manner provided in this code: 7. To administer oaths in an action or proceeding pending therein, and in all other cases where it may be necessary in the exercise of its powers and duties. 8. To amend and control its process and orders, so as to make them conformable to law and justice:

§ 185. For the effectual exercise of the powers conferred by the last section, the court may punish for contempt, in the cases provided in this code.

§ 186. In furtherance of the objects embraced in section 3, the court of appeals and the supreme court in general session, may from time to time, make such rules, and such only, for the practice in those courts, as are necessary to carry this code into effect, according to its spirit.

§ 187. The rules so made by the supreme court shall, when applicable, govern the practice in the other courts, except the court of appeals, surrogates’ and justices’ courts, and courts of conciliation; and no rules made by the supreme court, except at such general session of all the judges or a majority of them, are valid.

ARTICLE III. PARTICULAR DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGES.

In what cases, a judge cannot act as a member of the court.
Not to act as attorney or counsel in his own court, or in a case removed therefrom.
Certain judges, not to act as attorneys or counsel in any court.
Judge, not to have partner acting as attorney or counsel in his court, or to be interested in costs therein.

§ 188. A judge cannot act as such, in a court of which he is a member, in any of the following cases: 1. In an-action or proceeding to which he is a party, or in which he is interested: 2. When he is related to either party, by consanguinity or affinity within the third degree; 3. When he has been attorney, solicitor or counsel for either party, in the action or proceeding: 4. When the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended, by a person related to him, by consanguinity or affinity within the third degree, or by a partner of a person so related, as attorney or counsel for either party: 5. When he was not present and sitting as a member of the court, at the hearing of a matter submitted for its decision. But this section does not apply to the arrangement of the calendar, or the regulation of the order of business.

§ 189. A judge cannot act as attorney or counsel in a court of which he is a judge, or in an action or proceeding removed therefrom to another court for review. But this section does not extend to a person who acts as a judge, in virtue of his office as an alderman of a city, except in cases in which he may have acted as a member of the court.

§ 190. A judge of the court of appeals or supreme court, or of the superior court or court of common pleas of the city of New-York, cannot act as an attorney or counsel in any court.

§ 191. A judge cannot have a partner, acting as attorney or counsel in the court of which he is a judge; nor can a judge be interested in the costs of an action or proceeding in that court, except where he is a party.

ARTICLE IV. JUDICIAL DAYS.

Courts of justice, to be open every day, except as in next section.
Courts not to be open on certain days, except for special purposes.
If court appointed for or adjourned to those days, to be deemed for next day. 
Certain persons, not compellable to act as jurors on seventh day of the week.
Penalty for serving process on such persons, for or on that day.

§ 192. The courts of justice may be held, and judicial business may be transacted, on any day, except as provided in the next section.

§ 193. No court can be opened, nor can any judicial business be transacted, on Sunday, on the first day of January, on the fourth day of July, on Christmas day, on a day on which a general election is held, or on a day appointed by the governor of this state as a day of fast or thanksgiving, except for the following purposes: 1. To give, upon their request, instructions to a jury then deliberating on their verdict: 2. To receive a verdict, or discharge a jury: 3. For the exercise of the powers of a single magistrate, in a criminal action, or in a proceeding of a criminal nature.

§ 194. If any of the days mentioned in the last section happen to be a day appointed for the holding of a court, or to which it is adjourned, it is deemed appointed for, or adjourned to the next day.

§ 195. A person whose religious faith and practice are to keep the seventh day of the week, as a day set apart by divine command, as the Sabbath of rest from labor and dedicated to the worship of God, cannot be compelled on that day to attend as a juror.

§ 196. A person, who shall, on that day, knowingly and maliciously serve, or cause to be served, upon one who is exempted as provided in the last section; process issued from a justice’s court, returnable on that on any other day, or who shall, before that day, knowingly and maliciously serve upon him such process returnable thereon, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars; or by imprisonment not exceeding thirty days, or both.

ARTICLE V. PARTICULAR PROVISIONS RESPECTING THE PLACES OF HOLDING THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

Courts, where to be held.
On agreement of parties and order of court, trial of a civil case may be had elsewhere.
Accommodations for court and jury, by whom and how furnished.
Governor may, in certain cases, change place of holding court.
Similar powers, when to be exercised by presiding judge.
Persons bound to appear at place so appointed.
Intoxicating liquor, not to be sold in court house.

§ 197. Every court of justice must sit at the places designated for that purpose in this code, except as provided in the next five sections.

§ 198. Upon the agreement of the parties to a civil action or a proceeding of a civil nature, filed with the clerk or entered upon the minutes, the court may direct that the trial of an issue of law or of fact, or any other proceeding therein, be had elsewhere than at the courthouse.

§ 199. The supervisors of a county in which a term of the court of appeals, or a term or circuit of the supreme court, or a term of a court of oyer and terminer or sessions, or county court, is appointed to be held, must provide the court with rooms, furniture, attendants, fuel, lights and stationery, suitable and sufficient for the transaction of its business, and for the jury attending upon it. The common council of the city in which a term of a city court, and in the city of New-York, a term of the superior court or court of common pleas of that city, is appointed to be held, must make for those courts the same provision.

§ 200. If a board of supervisors or common council neglect to make the provision required by the last section, the court may order the sheriff to do so; and the expense incurred by him in carrying the order into effect, when certified by the court, is a county or city charge.

§ 201. The governor may, by proclamation filed with the secretary of state, and published as he may prescribe, direct that a session of the court for the trial of impeachments, a term of the court of appeals, a term or circuit of the supreme court, or a term of a court of oyer and terminer or sessions, be held at a place other than that appointed, when war, pesfilence, or other public calamity, or the danger thereof, may render it necessary; and may in the same manner revoke the proclamation, and in his discretion appoint another place for holding the court.

§ 202. A judge authorized to hold or preside at a court appointed to be held in a city or town, may, by an order filed with the county clerk, and published as he may prescribe, direct that the court be held or continued at any other place in the city or county than that appointed, when war, pesfilence or other public calamity, or the danger thereof; or the destruction of the building appointed for holding the court, may render it necessary; and may, in the same manner revoke the order, and in his discretion appoint another place in the same city or county, for holding the court.

§ 203. When a court is held at a place appointed, as provided in the last two sections, every person held to appear at the court must, appear at the place so appointed.

§ 204. Intoxicating liquors must not, on any pretense, be sold in the court-house of a county. A violation of this section is punishable as a contempt and as a misdemeanor.

ARTICLE VI. PROCEEDINGS, WHEN JUDGES DO NOT ATTEND TO HOLD A COURT.

Adjournment of court, for want of attendance of judges.

§ 205. If no judge attend on the day appointed for holding a court, before four o’clock in the afternoon, the court shall stand adjourned until the next day at nine o’clock; and if no judge attend on that day, before four o’clock in the afternoon, it shall then stand adjourned for the term.

§ 206. If less than a sufficient number of judges attend, on the day appointed for holding a court, or on the day to which it stands adjourned, as provided in the last section, the judge or judges attending must adjourn the court until the next day at ten o’clock; and may in the same manner adjourn it from day to day, not beyond the same week, until a sufficient number of judges attend.

ARTICLE VII. SEALS OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

What courts have seals.
Present seals to be used till December 31, 1850.
Secrtary of state to procure new seals. Devices thereof.
Seals, by shom kept.
To what proceedings to be affixed.
How affixed.

§ 207. Each of the following courts, and no other, has a seal: 1. The court of appeals: 2. The supreme court: 3. The superior court of the city of New-York: 4. The court of common pleas of the city of New-York: 5. The courts of oyer and terminer: 6. The county courts: 7. The surrogates’ courts: 8. The courts of sessions: 9. The city courts: 10. The marine court of the city of New-York:

§ 208. The seals now used by these courts shall continue to be so used, until and including the thirty-first day of December, 1850. After that day the seals devised as provided in the next section, shall be the seals thereof.

§ 209. At least thirty days before the first day of January, 1851, the secretary of state must procure and transmit, at the expense of the state, to the clerks of the several courts and to the surrogates mentioned in section 207, seals, with the arms of the state engraved in the centre thereof; and with the following inscriptions surrounding the same: 1. For the court of appeals, “Court of Appeals— State of New-York.” 2. For the supreme court, “New-York Supreme Court. __ County,” inserting the name of each county. 3. For the superior court of the city of New-York, “Superior Court of the City of New-York.” 4. For the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, “ Court of Common Pleas of the City of New-York.” 5. For the courts of oyer and terminer, “Oyer and Terminer, __ County, N.Y.” inserting the name of each county; and in the city and county of New-York, “Oyer and Terminer—City and County of New-York.” 6. For the county courts, “County Court, __ County, N. Y.,” inserting the name of the county. 7. For the surrogates’ courts, “Surrogate’s court, __ County N. Y.,” inserting the name of the county; 8. For the courts of sessions, “Court of sessions, __ County, N.Y.” or in the city and county of New-York, “Court of sessions—City and county of New-York.” 9. For the city courts, “City court of the city of __, N. Y.,” inserting the name of the city. 10. For the marine court of the city of New-York, “Marine court of the City of New-York.”

§ 210. The secretary of state must, at the same time and in the same manner, transmit to each county clerk. a seal for his county, with the device mentioned in the last section, and the following inscription surrounding the same, “ __ County,—State of New-York,” inserting the name of the county; or, in the city and county of New-York, “City and County of New-York.--State of New-York.”

§ 211. The clerk of each court mentioned in section 207, except the surrogate’s court, must keep the seal thereof. The seal of the surrogate’s court must be kept by the surrogate.

§ 212. The seal of a court need not be affixed to any proceeding therein, except, 1. To a wait specially ordered by the court: 2. To the proof of a will or the appointment of an executor, administrator or general guardian: or, 3. To the authentication of a copy of a record or other proceeding of the court or an officer thereof, for the purpose of evidence in another court.

§ 213. The seal may be affixed by impressing it on the paper, or on a substance attached to it and capable of receiving the impression.

TITLE II. OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

Judicial officers, in general.
Their election, tenure of office, classification and compensation.
Particular disqualifications of judicial officers.
Their removal from office.
Their incidental powers and duties.
Vacancies in office, and the powers of certain special judges.
Miscellaneous provisions respecting judicial officers. 

CHAPTER I. JUDICIAL OFFICERS IN GENERAL.

Who is a judicial officer.

§ 214. A judicial officer is a person authorized to act as a judge, in a court of justice.

CHAPTER II. ELECTION, TENURE OF OFFICE, CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

Election, appointment, and tenure of office of judicial officers.
Their compensation. 

§ 215. Judicial officers are elected by the electors of the state at large, or of a county, city, town or district thereof; or, when their offices become vacant, are appointed in the manner prescribed by the constitution and by special statutes. The tenure of their offices, and their classification, are provided for in the same manner.

§ 216. All judicial officers except justices of the peace, receive, at stated times, for their services, a compensation established by special statutes, which cannot be increased or diminished during their continuance in office; and are prohibited from receiving, to their own use, any fees or perquisites of office.

CHAPTER III. PARTICULAR DIBQUALIFICATIONS OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

Disqualifications of judges of court of appeals and supreme court. 

§ 217. The judges of the court of appeals and of the supreme court, cannot hold another office of public trust; and all votes for any of them, for an elective office, except that of a judge of those or other courts, given by the legislature or the people, are void. They are also prohibited from exercising any power of appointment to public office.

CHAPTER IV. REMOVAL OF JUDICAL OFFICERS FROM OFFICE.

Judges of court of appeals and supreme court, how removed.
Other judicial officers, how removed.
Removal by legislature, how made.
Justices of the peace, &c., how removed.

§ 218. The judges of the court of appeals and supreme court may be removed by concurrent resolution of both houses of the legislature, if two-thirds of all the members elected to the assembly, and a majority of all the members elected to the senate, concur therein.

§ 219. All other judicial officers, except justices of the peace, police justices, and the justices of justices’ courts in cities, may be removed from office, 1. By the court for the trial of impeachments, upon an impeachment by the assembly, for willful and corrupt misconduct in office: 2. By the senate, on the recommendation of the governor.

§ 220. No removal can be made by the concurrent resolution of both houses of the legislature, or by the senate on the recommendation of the governor, as provided in the last two sections, unless the cause thereof be entered on the journals, nor unless the party complained of shall have been served with a copy of the complaint against him, and shall have had an opportunity of being heard in his defense. On the question of removal, the ayes and noes must be entered on the journal.

§ 221. Justices of the peace, police justices, and the justices of justices’ courts in cities, may be removed by the courts of sessions in their respective counties, after due notice and an opportunity of being heard in their defense, for causes to be stated in the order of removal.

CHAPTER V. INCIDENTAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

General powers of judges, out of court.
Power of a judge to enlarge time.
Powers of county judge, in cases of supreme court.
Subsequent application to another judge, when prohibited.
Effect of violation of last section.
Further extension of time, by whom and how granted.
Powers of judicial officers, as to conduct of proceedings before them.
Powers of judges of court of appeals and supreme court, in authenticating instruments, and taking affidavits.
Powers of other judicial officers in this respect.

§ 222. A judge may exercise, out of court, all the powers expressly conferred upon a judge as contradistinguished from the court. But when an order has been made in court, it cannot be suspended or affected by the order of a judge out of court.

§ 223. A judge, upon an affidavit showing cause thereforee, may enlarge the time within which any act in an action or special proceeding before him or in his court, must be done, after its commencement and before judgment, except the time within which an appeal must be taken, or may stay proceedings therein, for the purpose of a motion to the court. But the time cannot be enlarged, or the proceedings stayed for more than twenty days, except upon previous notice to the adverse party; and a copy of the affidavit must be served with the order, or the order may be disregarded; and no judge, except the one who tried the cause, unless he be absent from the county or unable to act, can, after a trial by the court or jury, extend the time for preparing a case, exceptions or special verdict, or stay proceedings thereon.

§ 224. If the action or proceeding be in the supreme court, the powers conferred upon a judge of that court by the last two sections, may be exercised by a county judge, in his county, where one of the parties or attorneys reside therein except as provided in this chapter.

§ 225. If an application for an order, made to a judge of the court in which the action or proceeding is pending, be refused in whole or in part, or be granted conditionally, no subsequent application for the same order can be made to any other judge.

§ 226. A violation of the last section is punishable as a contempt; and an order made contrary thereto may be revoked by the judge who made it, or vacated by a judge of the court in which the action or proceeding is pending.

§ 227. When the time to answer or reply, in an action in the supreme court, has been extended by a county judge, neither he nor any other county judge can grant a further extension; and if an application be made to any judge for a further extension, the applicant must show by affidavit the time of service of the pleading to be answered, the time previously granted him to answer, and when .the next circuit will be held in the county. If a further extension be made by a county judge, it may be disregarded.

§ 228. Every judicial officer has power, 1. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate presence, and in the proceedings before him, when he is engaged in the performance of a duty imposed upon him by this code : 2. To compel obedience to his lawful orders, as provided in this code: 3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in a proceeding pending before him, in the cases and manner provided in this code: 4. To administer oaths to persons, in a proceeding pending before him, and in all other cases where it may be necessary, in the exercise of his powers and duties.

§ 229. For the effectual exercise of the powers conferred by the last section, a judicial officer may punish for contempt, in the cases provided in this code.

§ 230. The judges of the court of appeals, and of the supreme court, have power, in any part of the state, to take and certify, 1. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, or of any other written instrument: 2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment in any court, including a judgment of a justice’s court, or of the marine court of the city of New-York, when a transcript thereof has been filed with a county clerk: 3. An affidavit to be used in any court of justice of this state: 4. To exercise any other power, and perform any other duty conferred or imposed upon them by this code, or by other statutes.

§ 231. Every other judicial officer may, within the county, city, village, town, district or ward, in which he is elected or appointed, 1. Exercise the powers mentioned in the first three subdivisions of the last section: 2. Exercise any other power, and perform any other duty, conferred or imposed upon him by this code or by other statutes.

CHAPTER VI. VACANCIES IN OFFICE, AND THE POWERS OF CERTAIN SPECIAL JUDGES.

The special county judge.
His powers.
Who to act as surrogate, when there is not surrogate, county judge or special county judge to act.
Powers of special county judge, in cases in supreme court.
Vacancy in office of judge or surrogate, how determined.
City judge, in New-York.

§ 232. The local officer, for whose election in certain cases provision is made by section fifteen of the sixth article of the constitution, is in this code known as a special county judge.

§ 233. In case of the inability of a county judge or surrogate, or of a vacancy in his office, the special county judge is invested with his powers and charged with his duties during the inability or vacancy.

§ 234. In a county in which there is no special county judge, in case of inability of the surrogate, or of a vacancy in his office, his powers and duties devolve on the county judge, or if the office of judge and surrogate are united in the same person, then on the district attorney, during the vacancy or in the particular case. In the city of New-York, if the surrogate be unable to act, or there be a vacancy in his office, one of the judges of the court of common pleas, to be designated by the mayor of that city, must act as surrogate during the disability or vacancy.

§ 235. A special county judge has also the powers, in his county, which by law are conferred on the county judge, in actions and proceedings in the supreme court.

§ 236. A vacancy in the office, or the disability of a judge or surrogate, whether existing in reference to a particular action or proceeding under the provisions of section 188, or from any other cause, must be determined by an order of the supreme court, entered with the clerk of the proper county. The order may be made upon affidavit, without notice, or upon notice, or upon an order to show cause, in the discretion of the court.

§ 237. In the city of New-York, there is a judicial officer, known as the city judge of the city of New-York. His election, term of office, and compensation, are provided for by special statutes. His duties are prescribed by particular provisions of this code.

CHAPTER VII. MISCELLANEOIJS PROVISIONS, RESPECTING COURTS AND JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

No proceeding affected by vacancy in office of judge.
Application to court or judge, how addressed.
Proceedings to be in English.
Judicial officer, how punishable for misconduct.
Power of court or judicial officer to adjourn proceedings. Proceedings out of court, when to be continued before another officer.
Means to be used by court or judicial officer, to execute his powers.

§ 238. No proceeding in a court of justice in an action or special proceeding pending therein, is affected by a vacancy in the office of all or any of the judges, or by the failure of a term thereof.

§ 239. An application or other proceeding addressed to a court, must be addressed to it by its style, as given in this code; and when the name of a judge is mentioned in an order or other proceeding in court, it must be mentioned without any other title than his style of office. An application or other proceeding addressed to a judicial officer, must be addressed to him by his name, without any other title than his style of office.

§ 240. Every written proceeding in a court of justice of this state, or before a judicial officer, must be in the English language: but such abbreviations as are now commonly used in that language, may be used, and numbers may be expressed by figures or numerals, in the customary manner.

§ 241. A judicial officer is guilty of a misdemeanor, and is also liable to a civil action, at the suit of a party, aggrieved, when he performs an official act corruptly, or willfully neglects or violates an official duty.

§ 242. A court or judicial officer has power to create or fill a vacancy in any office held by appointment thereof, or to adjourn any proceeding from time to time, as may be necessary, unless otherwise expressly provided by a particular provision of this code; and a special proceeding, or a proceeding in an action, out of court, commenced before a judicial officer, may be continued before any other judicial officer, before whom it might have been commenced.

§ 243. When jurisdiction is, by this code, or by any other statute, conferred on a court or judicial officer, all the means to carry it into effect are also given; and in the exercise of the jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not specifically pointed out by this code, any suitable process or mode of proceeding may be adopted, which may appear most conformable to the spirit of this code.

TITLE III. OF PERSONS SPECIALLY INVESTED WITH POWERS OF A JUDICIAL NATURE.

Jurors.
Referees.
Commissioners of deeds.
Commissioners to take affidavits and the proof or acknowledgment of deeds, out of this state.

CHAPTER I. JURORS.

Jurors, in general.
Their qualifications and exemptions.
Manner of returning the grand jury list, and drawing and summoning the grand jury. 
Manner of returning the trial jury list, except in the city of New-York.
Manner of returning the trial jury list, in the city of New-York.
Drawing and summoning the trial jury for the circuits and courts of oyer and terminer, the superior court and court of common pleas of the city of New-York, the courts of sessions, and the county, surrogates’ and city courts.
Drawing and summoning the trial jury, for the marine court of the city of New-York.
Drawing and summoning the trial jury, for the justices’ and police courts.
Drawing and summoning the trial jury, in special proceedings.
Manner of returning special jurors. 

ARTICLE I. JURORS IN GENERAL.

Definition of a jury.
Different kinds of juries.
Definition of a grand jury.
Definition of a trial jury.
Definition of a jury of inquest.
Number of a trial jury.
Foreign juries, juries de medietate linguae, and trial at bar, abolished.

§ 244. A jury is a body of men temporarily selected from the citizens of a particular district, and invested with the power to present or indict a person for a public offense, or to try a question of fact.

§ 245. A jury is of three kinds: 1. A grand jury: 2. A trial jury: and, 3. A jury of inquest.

§ 246. A grand jury is a body of men, not less than sixteen nor more than twenty-three in number, returned at stated periods from the citizens of the county, before a court of competent jurisdiction, and chosen by lot and sworn to inquire of public offenses committed or triable within the county.

§ 217. A trial jury is a body of men, returned from the citizens of a particular district, before a court or officer of competent jurisdiction, and chosen by lot and sworn to try and determine, by an unanimous verdict, a question of fact.

§ 248. A jury of inquest is a body of men, summoned from the citizens of a particular district, before the sheriff, coroner, or other ministerial officer, to inquire of particular facts.

§ 249. A trial jury consists of twelve men, except as otherwise provided in this code in respect to a justice’s or police court, or a special proceeding.

§ 250. Foreign juries, juries de medietate linguae, and trials by a jury at the bar of the court, are abolished; and no question of fact triable by a jury, can be tried except by a jury returned, chosen and sworn as provided in this code.

ARTICLE II. THE QUALIFICATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS OF JURORS.

Who are competent to act as jurors.
Who are exempt.
Who may be excused.

§ 251. A person is not competent to act as a juror, unless he be, 1. A citizen of the United States: 2. A white male inhabitant of the town or ward from which he is returned: 3. Over twenty-one and under sixty years of age: 4. In the possession of his natural faculties, and not decrepit. 5. Of good moral character, of sound judgment, and well informed: and, 6. Subject to assessment, for personal property belonging to him, or for land in his possession, which he holds under contract for the purchase thereof, upon which improvements have been made of the value of one hundred and fifty dollars; or having a freehold estate in the county, in his own right or in right of his wife, of the value of one hundred and fifty dollars.

§ 252. A person is exempt from liability to act as a juror, if he be, 1. A judicial officer, as defined in section 214: 2. Any other civil officer of this state or of the United States, whose duties are at the time inconsistent with his attendance as a juror: 3. An attorney and counsellor: 4. A minister of the gospel, or a priest of any denomination: 5. A teacher in a college, academy or school: 6. A practising physician: 7. An acting non-commissioned officer, musician or private, of an uniformed company or troop, duly equipped and organized according to law; the evidence of which is the certificate of the commanding officer, verified by oath, and dated within three months of the time when the exemption is claimed: 8. An acting member of a company of firemen, duly organized according to law; the evidence of which is the certificate of the foreman or other chief officer of the company: 9. A person who, on the first day of May, 1849, had served, or who thereafter may serve, as an acting member of a company of firemen in a city or village of this state, for five years; the evidence of which is the certificate of the chief engineer or head of the fire department of the city or village: 10. A superintendent, engineer, collector or conductor of a canal or railroad, constructed by the authority of this state, and in actual use: 11. An officer, keeper, or attendant of an alms-house, poor-house, hospital, asylum, or other charitable institution, created by or under the laws of this state: 12. A person in the actual employment of an incorporated manufacturing company, by the year, month or season: or 13. A person specially exempted by any other statute, from serving on a jury.

§ 253. A person may be excused from ‘acting as a juror, when, for any reason, his interests or those of the public will be materially injured by his attendance: or when his own health, or the death or sickness of a member of his family, requires his absence.

ARTICLE III. MANNER OF RETURNING THE GRAND JURY LIST, AND DRAWING AND SUMMONING THE GRAND JURY.

Grand jury list to be made annually by supervisors.
Names to be selected.
List, how made, and when and where filed.
County clerk to keep grand jury box, and box of drawn grand jurors.
To deposit ballots in grand jury box. 
Grand jury to be drawn from names deposited. How drawn for a city court.
For what courts grand jury must be drawn.
For what courts it may be drawn.
Order for drawing in such case, how made and filed.
Misdescription of court, not to invalidate order.
Number of ballots to be drawn, to constitute grand jury.
Drawing, when and where to take place.
Notice of drawing.
Drawing, how conducted.
Panel to be delivered to sheriff.
Entry in minute of drawing for a city court.
Grand jury, when and how summoned.
Panel, when and how returned.
Penalty on grand jurors for non-attendance.
Clerk or sheriff to furnish copy panel without charge.
Ballots drawn, how disposed of.
Clerk of court to deliver certificate to county clerk, respecting attendance of grand jurors. 
Grand juror not to be drawn again during same year, unless ballots in grand jury box exhausted.
Proceedings, where a person is drawn both as a grand and trial juror.

§ 254. The board of supervisors of each county must annually make a list, denominated the grand jury list, containing the names of persons-to serve as grand jurors at the courts of oyer and terminer and sessions and city courts in the county, until a new list he returned in the following manner: 1. In the city and county of New-York, it must be made annually on the first Monday of July, and must contain the names of twelve hundred persons: 2. In the other counties it must be made at the annual meeting of the board of supervisors, and must contain the names of three hundred persons, apportioned among the different towns and wards, according to the number of persons assessed on the last preceding assessment roll.

§ 255. In preparing the grand jury list, the names of those persons only must be selected, who are known or believed to be possessed of the qualifications prescribed in section 251, and not entitled to exemption, as provided in section 252.

§ 256. The grand jury list must contain the christian and surname at length, and the place of residence and occupation of each person named therein, and must be certified by the clerk of the board of supervisors, and filed in the office of the clerk of the county, within ten days after the day on which it is required to be prepared.

§ 257. The county clerk must keep in his office two sufficient boxes, carefully secured, the one of which is denominated the grand jury box, and the other the box of drawn grand jurors.

§ 258. On receiving the grand jury list, he must destroy all ballots remaining in both boxes, and must prepare and deposit in the grand jury box, separate ballots, containing the name, place of residence and occupation of each person embraced in the list, and folded as nearly alike as possible, and so that the name cannot be seen.

§ 259. The grand jury for every court in the county, must be drawn from the names deposited in the grand jury box. But if it be drawn for a city court, the clerk must return to the box, every ballot containing the name of a person not stated thereon to reside in the city in which the court is established.

§ 260. A grand jury must be drawn for every term of the following courts: 1. The court of oyer and terminer, except in the city and county of New-York: 2. The court of sessions of the city of New-York, and the city courts.

§ 261. A grand jury may also be drawn, 1. For every other court of sessions, when specially ordered by the court, or by the board of supervisors: 2. For the court of oyer and terminer in the city and county of New-York, upon the order of a judge of the supreme court elected in the first judicial district.

§ 262. If made by the court, the order must be entered upon its minutes, and a copy thereof filed with the county clerk, at least thirty days before the term for which the jury is ordered. If made by the board of supervisors, a copy thereof, certified by the clerk of the board, must be filed with the county clerk, at least thirty days before the term; and when so filed, is conclusive evidence of the authority for drawing, the jury.

§ 263. A misdescription, however, of the title of the court does not affect the validity of the order, if it can be plainly understood therefrom, what court is intended.

§ 264. To constitute a grand jury, thirty-six ballots must be drawn from the grand jury box, for the court of sessions in the city of New-York, and twenty-four for the courts in every other city and county.

§ 265. The drawing must take place at the office of the county clerk, not less than fourteen, nor more than twenty days before the holding of the court.

§ 266. At least six days notice of the time and place of the drawing must be given, by publication in a newspaper of the county, or if there be none, by affixing the notice on the outer door of the court house. A copy of the notice must also be served on the sheriff of the county, and on one of the persons authorized to act as a judge of the court, at least three days before the time appointed for the drawing.

§ 267. At the time appointed, the sheriff or under sheriff, and the judge upon whom notice has been served, as prescribed in the last section, must attend at the office of the county clerk, to superintend the drawing. If either of those officers do not appear, the clerk must adjourn the drawing to the next day; and must, by written notice, require the delinquent sheriff or judge, or any two justices of the peace or police justices, to attend the drawing at that time. If the officers receiving notice, then appear, but not otherwise, the clerk must proceed in their presence to draw the grand jury.

§ 268. The drawing must be conducted, as follows: 1. The clerk must shake the box containing the ballots, so as to mingle them as much as possible: 2. He must then publicly draw out of the box, as many of the ballots as there are grand jurors required: 3. A minute of the drawing must be kept, in which the name contained on each ballot drawn must be entered, before another ballot can be drawn: 4. If, when the whole number of ballots required is drawn, it appear that a person, whose name is drawn, is dead or insane, or resides out of the county, that fact must be entered in the minute of the drawing, and the ballot containing the name, destroyed: 5. Another ballot must then be drawn in place of that destroyed, and the name contained thereon must in the same manner he entered in the minute of the drawing: 6. The same proceedings must be had, as often as necessary, until the requisite number of ballots is drawn: 7. The minute of the drawing must then be signed by the clerk and the attending officers, and immediately filed in the clerk’s office.

§ 269. A panel of the names of the persons drawn as grand jurors, with their places of residence and occupations, and stating for what court they were drawn, must then be made and certified by the clerk and the a tending officers, and delivered without delay to the sheriff of the county.

§ 270. If the grand jury be drawn for a city court, the fact of the return to the grand jury box, of a ballot containing the name of a person not stated thereon, to reside in the city in which the court is established, as provided in section 259, must be entered in the minute of the drawing, and the grand jury must be completed from the names of persons residing in that city.

§ 271. At least six days before the court, the sheriff must summon the persons named in the panel delivered to him, to attend the court, by giving written notice to each of them personally, or by leaving it at his place of residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

§ 272. The sheriff must also return the panel to the court, at its opening, specifying the persons summoned, and the manner in which each was notified.

§ 273. The court to which the panel of grand jurors is returned by the sheriff, may impose a fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars, for each day a grand juror without reasonable cause, neglects to attend. If, however, the notice to attend were not personally served, the fine cannot be imposed, until, upon an order to show cause, an opportunity is afforded him to be heard.

§ 274. At any time after the drawing of the grand jury, the county clerk or sheriff must, without charge, furnish any person applying thereforee, a copy of the panel thereof.

§ 275. The county clerk must preserve the ballots drawn, as provided in section 268, until after the adjournment of the court, and must then, if he be also the clerk of that court, or if not, upon receiving the certificate mentioned in the next section, 1. Destroy the ballots containing the names of those who were discharged, for want of a qualification mentioned in section 251, or by reason of an exemption mentioned in section 252: 2. Deposit in the grand jury box, the ballots containing the names of those who did not appear, or were discharged, for any other reason than those mentioned in the last subdivision: 3. Deposit in the box of drawn grand jurors, the ballots containing the names of those who attended and served.

§ 276. The clerk of the court, when he is not also the county clerk, must, within one week after its adjournment, deliver to the county clerk a certified list of all the grand jurors returned to the court, specifying, 1. Those who were discharged for want of qualification, or by reason of exemption: 2. Those who did not appear, or were discharged for any other reason: 3. Those who attended and served.

§ 277. When a person drawn as a grand juror has attended and performed his duty, during the year for which his name was returned, he cannot again be required to serve as a grand juror during that year, except as provided in the next section.

§ 278. If a new grand jury list be not returned to the county clerk, before the list for the year is exhausted, he must draw the grand jurors from the box of drawn grand jurors; and persons so drawn must be summoned, and must serve, and are subject to the same penalties for neglect, as if the year had not expired.

§ 279. When a person is drawn both as a grand and trial juror for the same court, his name must be omitted from the panel of trial jurors, and another name drawn in its place; but after the completion of the drawing of trial jurors, his name must be returned to the trial jury box.

ARTICLE IV. MANNER OF RETURNING THE TRIAL JURY LIST, EXCEPT IN THE CITY OF NEW-YORK.

Assessors to prepare county jury list, and justice’s jury list.
Manner of designating jurors on each.
Manner of returning jury lists.
Justices to have jury boxes.
New ballots to be prepared annually.

§ 280. The assessors of the several towns or wards in each county, except the city and county of New-York, at their annual meeting for the purpose of completing the assessment roll, must make two lists, the one denominated the county trial jury list, the other the justices’ jury list, containing the names of persons to serve as trial jurors, until a new list is returned.

§ 281. In preparing the trial jury lists, the assessors must select for the county jury list, the names of not more than one-fourth, nor less than one-fifth of those persons assessed who are known or believed to possessed of the qualifications prescribed in section 251, and not entitled to exemption, as provided in section 252. The lists must contain the christian and surname at length, and the place of residence and occupation, of each person named therein.

§ 282. The assessors must divide the justice’s jury list into parts, corresponding, in a town, with the number of justices therein ; and in a city, with the number of justice’s districts therein, and must deliver to each justice in a town and justice’s clerk in a city, his jury list, duly certified by them. They must also, without delay, transmit to the county clerk’s office, the county jury list, certified by them. On the justice’s jury list in cities, there must be placed those jurors only who reside in the city; and in all cases the jurors who reside nearest the justice’s office, must, as far as practicable, be placed on his list. The number of jurors on the lists may be unequal, reference being bad to the location and estimated amount of business of each justice.

§ 283. Each clerk and justice mentioned in the last section, must keep in his office two sufficient boxes, carefully secured, the one of which is denominated the undrawn jury box, and the other the drawn jury box.

§ 284. On receiving the justice’s jury list, the clerk or justice must destroy all ballots remaining in both boxes, and must prepare, and deposit in the undrawn jury box, separate ballots containing the name of each person embraced in the list, and folded as nearly alike as possible, and so that the name cannot be seen.

ARTICLE V. MANNER OF RETURNING THE TRIAL JURY LIST, IN THE CITY OF NEW-YORK.

Commissioner of jurors.
Place of office and compensation.
Must annually prepare a jury list.
Correct information to be given.
Who to be placed on jury list.
Notice to be given for correction of list.
Commissioner must attend to hear objections.
Persons exempt, how struck off.
Jury list to be filed with county clerk.
A justice’s jury list to be made.
Clerks to keep two jury boxes.
New ballots to be prepared annually.
Other persons may be added to jury list.
Their names to be returned to county clerk. 

§ 285. There is, in the city of New-York, an officer known as the commissioner of jurors, who is appointed by the supervisors of the city and county of New-York, and the judges of the superior court and court of common pleas of that city, and who holds his office during their pleasure.

§ 286. His office must be kept at the place designated from time to time by the board of supervisors, who must also regulate his compensation, and the number and compensation of his clerks and assistants.

§ 287. The commissioner of jurors must annually, between the first days of May and June, make and enter in a book known as the jury register, a list denominated the trial jury list of the city of New-York, containing the names of persons to serve as trial jurors in that city and county, until a new list he returned.

§ 288. Every person must, upon the application of the commissioner of jurors, or any of his assistants, give correct information of his knowledge or belief of the liability of a person to serve as a juror. For his refusal to do so, or his willfully giving incorrect information in respect thereto, he is liable to a penalty of fifty dollars, recoverable in a civil action by the corporation of the city of New-York.

§ 289. In preparing the trial jury list, the commissioner of jurors must select the name of every person who is known or believed to be possessed of the qualifications prescribed in section 251, and not entitled to exemption, as provided in section 252.

§ 290. As soon after the first day of June in each year, as the trial jury list is completed, the commissioner of jurors must publish, for at least ten days, in the manner prescribed by the board of supervisors, a notice that the trial jury list will be open at his office daily, between nine o’clock in the forenoon and five o’clock in the afternoon, for examination and correction, until a specified day, at least thirty days from the last publication of the notice.

§ 291. The commissioner of jurors must attend at his office, at the times mentioned in the notice, for the purpose of determining the right to exemption, of a person whose name is on the trial jury list, and may take proof and administer oaths in respect thereto.

§ 292. Upon proof that a person, whose name is on the trial jury list, is exempt for any of the causes mentioned in section 252, and not otherwise, the commissioner of jurors must strike his name from the list, and enter in a book known as the exemption register, 1. The name of the person exempt: 2. The ground of exemption: 3. The name of the person by whose certificate or oath the exemption was proved: and 4. The day when the name was stricken from the list.

§ 293. Within ten days after the time appointed for the examination and correction of the trial jury list, as provided in section 290, the commissioner of jurors must file with the county clerk, a certified copy of the list as corrected.

§ 294. He must also, within the same time, make and deliver to the clerk of the justice’s court of each justice’s district in the city of New-York, a certified list denominated the justice’s jury list, containing the name, place of residence, and occupation of each person embraced in the corrected trial jury list, who resides in the district.

§ 295. Each clerk mentioned in the last two sections must keep in his office two sufficient boxes, carefully secured, the one of which is denominated the undrawn jury box, and the other the drawn jury box.

§ 296. On receiving the trial or justice’s jury list, as provided in sections 293 and 294, both inclusive, the clerk must destroy all ballots remaining in both boxes, and must prepare and deposit in the underdrawn jury box, separate ballots, containing the name, place of residence and occupation of each person embraced in the list, and folded as nearly alike as possible, and so that the name cannot be seen.

§ 297. If, after the return of a trial jury list, the commissioner of jurors discover that the name of a person, qualified to act as a juror and not exempt, has been omitted, he must give written notice to the person so omitted, to appear at his office at a specified time, at least five days after the service, to show cause why his name should not be placed on the trial jury list. The notice must be served on the person to whom it is directed, personally, or by delivering it to a person of suitable age and discretion, at his place of residence.

§ 298. If the person so served, fail to appear or to show by proof, as prescribed in section 291, that he is exempt, his name must be immediately returned to the county clerk, and to the clerk of the justice’s court, in the district in which he resides, in the manner provided in sections 293 and 294, in respect to the original trial or justice’s jury list; and a ballot containing the name must be prepared and deposited in the undrawn jury box, in the manner provided in section 296.

ARTICLE VI. DRAWING AND SUMMONING THE TRIAL JURY FOR THE CIRCUITS AND CXJURTS OF OYER AND TERMINER, THE SUPERIOR COURT AND COURT OF COMMON PLEAS OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK, THE COURTS OF SESSIONS, AND THE COUNTY, SURROGATES, AND CITY COURTS.

Trial jurors to be taken from undrawn box of the county.
Courts for which such jurors are drawn.
Other courts for which they may be drawn.
Orders for drawing jurors in certain courts.
Orders to be thirty days before court and filed.
Misdescription of court not material.
Number of jurors for different courts.
Trial juroros for circuit and oyer and terminer, the same.
Certain sections to apply.

§ 299. A trial jury, when required for either of the courts embraced in this article, must be drawn from the undrawn jury box of the county in which the court is held. But if it be drawn for a city court, the clerk must return to the box, every ballot containing the name of a person not stated thereon to reside in the city in which the court is established.

§ 300. A trial jury must be drawn, 1. For every circuit: 2. For every trial term of the superior court or court of common pleas of the city of New-York: 3. For every term of the court of sessions of the city of New-York, and 4. For every term of a city court.

§ 301. A trial jury may also be drawn, 1. For a term of a county court or of a court of sessions, except in the city and county of New-York, when specially ordered by the county judge or by the board of supervisors: 2. For a surrogate’s court, when specially ordered by the court, in the cases and manner prescribed in this code.

§ 302. The order when made for a county court or court of sessions, may require that the trial jury be drawn for a particular term; when made by a surrogate’s court, that it be drawn for a time and place specified in the order. In either of the cases mentioned in this section, the order must specify the number of jurors to be drawn, not exceeding thirty-six, and the name of the court for which they are to be drawn.

§ 303. If made by the court, the order must be entered upon its minutes, and a copy thereof filed with the county clerk, at least thirty days before the day for which the jury is ordered. If made by the board of supervisors, a copy thereof, certified by the clerk of the board, must be filed with the county clerk at least thirty days before the day for which the jury is ordered; and when so filed, is conclusive evidence of the authority for drawing the jury.

§ 304. A misdescription, however, of the title of the court, does not affect the validity of the order, if it can be plainly understood therefrom what court is intended.

§ 305. The number of jurors drawn for the courts mentioned in section 300, must be as follows: 1. For a circuit, in the city and county of New-York, seventy-two, and in every other county, thirty-six: 2. For the superior court, or court of common pleas, of the city of New-York, seventy-two: 3. For the court of sessions of the city of New-York, seventy-two: 4. For a city court, thirty-six.

§ 306. The trial jurors duly drawn and summoned for a circuit, are the trial jurors for the court of oyer and terminer held at the same time; and those drawn and summoned for a city court, are in like manner the trial jurors in criminal actions therein.

§ 307. The provisions of sections 265 to 278, both inclusive, in respect to grand jurors, (substituting the word trial, in place of the word grand,) apply to trial jurors in all the courts embraced in this article.

ARTICLE VII. DRAWING AND SUMMONING THE TRIAL JURY FOR THE MARINE COURT OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK.

Trial jury for marine court.
To be drawn for every alternate Monday.
Drawing, how conducted.
Jury list to be delivered to a constable or policeman.
Jurors to be summoned three days before court.
Fine may be imposed for not attending.
Disposition of the ballots drawn.
Certain sections to apply.

§ 308. A trial jury, when required for the marine court of the city of New-York, must be drawn from the undrawn jury box of that city.

§ 309. A trial jury of twenty persons must be drawn for this court, for every alternate Monday, commencing with the first Monday of January, 1851, to serve until the second Saturday, inclusive, after the day for which they were drawn.

§ 310. The drawing must take place publicly, at the office of the county clerk, on the Wednesday preceding the day for which the jury is drawn; and must be conducted by him in the manner prescribed in section 268, in respect to grand jurors, except that no other officer need be present. He must also immediately deliver to the clerk of this court a certified list of the persons drawn as jurors, with their places of residence and occupations, and stating that they were drawn for this court, and the day for which they were drawn.

§ 311. The clerk of this court must immediately deliver the list to a constable, or to a policeman detailed by the mayor to attend the court, with a written notice directed to each person named in the list, requiring him to attend as a trial juror at this court on the day for which the jury was drawn.

§ 312. The officer must thereupon, at least three days before the court, summon each of the persons named in the list, by giving him the notice mentioned in the last section personally, or by leaving it at his place of residence with some person of suitable age and discretion; and must return the list to the court, at its opening on the day for which the jury was drawn, specifying the persons summoned and the manner in which each was notified. If the officer be a policeman, he is not entitled to any fee for summoning the jury.

§ 313. When the list is returned, the court may impose a line, not exceeding ten dollars, for each day a juror without reasonable cause neglects to attend. But if the notice were not personally served, the fine cannot be imposed, until, upon an order to show cause, an opportunity is afforded him to be heard.

§ 3l4. The county clerk must preserve the ballots drawn, as provided in section 275, until after the expiration of the period of service for which the jury was drawn. The clerk of this court must then deliver to him a certified list of the persons returned, in the manner prescribed in section 276; and the county clerk must thereupon dispose of the ballots retained, as provided in section 275.

§ 315. The provisions of sections 277 and 278, in respect to grand jurors, (substituting the word trial in place of the word grand,) apply to trial jurors in this court.

ARTICLE VIII. DRAWING AND SUMMONING THE TRIAL JURY, FOR THE JUSTICES’ AND POLICE COURTS.

Jury for justices’ and police courts, how drawn.
When to be drawn.
Jury list to be delivered to officer.
Manner of summoning jury.
Court may fine jurors for not attending.
Certain sections to apply.

§ 316. A trial jury, when required for a justice’s or police court, must be drawn from the undrawn jury box of the justice or justice’s district.

§ 317. A trial jury of twelve persons must be publicly drawn, 1. For a justice’s court, when demanded by either party, at the time when an issue of fact is joined: 2. For a police court, when demanded by the defendant, at the time of pleading, unless he plead guilty.

§ 318. The justice or clerk of the court for which the jury is drawn, must immediately deliver the list to a constable or marshal of the city or town, with a written notice directed to each person named in the list, requiring him to attend as a juror at a time and place specified therein.

§ 319. The officer must thereupon immediately summon each of the persons named in the list, by giving him the notice mentioned in the last section personally, or by leaving it at his place of residence with some person of suitable age and discretion, and must return the list to the court, at its opening on the day for which the jury was drawn, specifying the persons summoned, and the manner in which each was notified.

§ 320. The court to which the list is returned, may impose a fine, not exceeding five dollars, for the neglect of a juror, without reasonable cause, to attend. But if the notice were not personally served, the fine cannot be imposed, until, upon an order to show cause, an opportunity is afforded him to be heard.

§ 321. The provisions of sections 277 and 278, in respect to grand jurors, (substituting the word justices’ in place of the word grand,) apply to justices’ jurors.

ARTICLE IX. DRAWING AND SUMMONING THE TRIAL JURY, IN SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS

Trial jury in a special proceeding, in a court.
Manner of drawing a jury.
Order for jury must specify the number.
Special jury before justice.
Jury in special cases, before other officers.

§ 322. The trial jury in a special proceeding in a court, is the same which is drawn and summoned for the trial of questions of fact therein.

§ 323. A trial jury, when required in a special proceeding before a judicial officer, as provided in this code, must be drawn as follows: 1. If before a justice of the peace or of a justice’s court, from the justice’s undrawn jury box: 2. If before any other judicial officer, from the undrawn jury box of the county in which the trial is to be had. But if it be before a judge elected in a city, the clerk must return to the box, every ballot containing the name of a person not stated therein to reside in the city in which the trial is to be had.

§ 324. The order for a jury must specify the number of jurors to be drawn; and when made by a judicial officer other than a justice of the peace or of a justice’s court in a city, must specify the time and place for which it is to be drawn.

§ 325. The jury, in a special proceeding before a justice, must be drawn and summoned as provided in sections 316, 318 and 319, and the provisions of sections 277 and 278, (substituting the word trial in place of the word grand,) and of section 320, (substituting the word justice in place of the word court,) are applicable thereto.

§ 326. When drawn in a proceeding before any other judicial officer, it must be drawn by the county clerk, in the manner provided in section 268; and the provisions of sections 277 and 278, (substituting the word trial in place of the word grand,) and of section 320 (substituting the word judge in place of the word court,) are applicable thereto.

ARTICLE X. MANNER OF RETURNING A SPECIAL TRIAL JURY.

Cases in which special jury may be had.
Five days notice of application.
Manner of drawing special jury.
When clerk is interested, special jury, how drawn.
Manner of summoning special jury.
To be formed in same manner as other juries. 

§ 327. A special jury may be ordered, on motion, by the supreme court, the superior court or court of common pleas of the city of New-York, or a county, city or surrogate’s court, for the trial of a question of fact in a civil action or in a special proceeding of a civil nature, when the importance or intricacy of the case requires it, or a fair and impartial trial cannot otherwise be had.

§ 328. The party obtaining the order must give notice of at least five days, of the time when he will attend before the county clerk, for the purpose of selecting the names of persons to form the jury.

§ 329. At the time appointed, the county clerk must attend at his office, with the list of trial jurors of the county, and publicly select the persons to form the jury in the following manner: 1. He must select from the trial jury list, the names of forty-eight persons, indifferent between the parties, and in his judgment best qualified to try the question: 2. The parties or their attorneys, must then, alternately, commencing with the party who obtained the order, strike out one of the names of the persons selected, until each party shall have stricken out twelve names: 3. If either party fail to attend, or neglect to strike out twelve names as provided in the last subdivision, the clerk must do so for him: 4. The clerk must thereupon deliver to the sheriff, a panel of the twenty-four persons not stricken out, and must certify that they are the persons selected to form the special jury.

§ 330. If, upon the motion for a special jury, it appear that the clerk is a party to, or interested in the action or proceeding, or is related to either of the parties thereto, by consanguinity or affinity within the third degree, or for any other cause is not impartial between the parties, the court must appoint two impartial persons to select the jury, who must perform the duties imposed upon the clerk by the last section.

§ 331. The sheriff must summon the persons whose names are contained on the panel delivered to him, as provided in section 271, and make return thereof as provided in section 272.

§ 332. The jury must be formed from the persons summoned and appearing, in the manner prescribed by this code in respect to other jurors; and the court has the same power to tine, excuse or discharge any of them, as in other cases.

CHAPTER II. REFEREES.

Definition of a referee.
Definition of a reference.
Reference, when ordered on agreement of parties.
When ordered without agreement.
In what courts.
To whom ordered.
To whom cause cannot be referred, when reference made by the court or judge. 

§ 333. A referee is a person appointed by the court, or a judicial officer, 1. To try an issue of law or of fact in a civil action, and report in judgment thereon: 2. To ascertain any other fact in a civil action or in a special proceeding of a civil nature, when necessary for the information of the court, and report the fact either with or without his opinion thereon: 3. To execute an order or judgment.

§ 334. The appointment of a referee, is denominated a reference.

§ 335. Upon the agreement of the parties to a civil action or a proceeding of a civil nature, filed with the clerk or entered upon the minutes, a reference may be ordered, 1. To try any or all of the issues in a civil action, whether of fact or of law, (except an issue of fact when the action is for a divorce dissolving the marriage contract,) and to report a judgment thereon: 2. To hear and determine a suit pending in the supreme court, before the first day of July, 1848, on what was then known as the equity side of that court, or any issue therein, whether of fact or of law, or both, (except an issue of fact when the suit is for a divorce dissolving the marriage contract,) or to report facts therein: or 3. To execute a judgment or order, in an action or suit embraced in this section, except when an execution is the appropriate remedy, as provided in this code. 4. To try an issue or ascertain a fact, in a special proceeding of a civil nature.

§ 336. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the following cases: 1. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a long account on either side; in which case, the referees may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any specific question of fact involved therein: 2. When the taking of an account is necessary for the information of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect: 3. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises upon a motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action: or 4. When it is necessary for the information of the court, in a special proceeding of a civil nature.

§ 337. A reference may be ordered, in a civil action or in a special proceeding of a civil nature, in any court except a justice’s court or the marine court of the city of New-York. It may be so ordered at a special or trial term or circuit, or by a judge of the court, but by no other officer.

§ 338. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not agree, the court or judge, must appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who reside in the county in which the action or proceeding is triable.

§ 339. When the appointment of referees is made by the court or a judge, the referee must be, 1. Qualified as a juror, as provided in section 251; 2. Competent as a juror between the parties: and 3. Not related by consanguinity or affinity within the third degrees, to a judge by whom the court is held, or the order made, or to one who is interested or connected as a partner with a person so related.

CHAPTER III. COMMISSIONERS OF DEEDS.

How appointed, and their tenure of office.
Their powers and duties.

§ 340. Commissioners of deeds are appointed in counties or cities, in pursuance of special statutes, and the tenure of their offices is provided for in the same manner.

§ 341. A commissioner of deeds has power, in the county or city in which he is appointed, and in no other place to take and certify, 1. The proof or acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, or of any other written instrument: 2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment in any court, including a judgment of a justice’s court, or of the marine court of the city of New-York, when a transcript thereof has been filed with a county clerk: 3. An affidavit to be used in any court of justice of this state: and 4. To exercise any other power, and perform any other duty conferred or imposed upon him by this code, or by other statutes.

CHAPTER IV. COMMSSIONERS TO TAKE AFFIDAVITS, AND THE PROOF AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF DEEDS, OUT OF THIS STATE

How appointed, their tenure of office, powers and duties.
Oath of office, and how filed.

§ 342. The governor may appoint as many commissioners, in each of the other states, or in a territory of the United States, or in the District of Columbia, as he may deem expedient, who shall hold their offices for three years, and may in the state, territory or district for which they are appointed, and in no other place, take and certify, 1. The proof or acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, or of any other written instrument: 2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment in any court, including a judgment of a justice’s court, or of the marine court of the city of New-York, when a transcript thereof has been filed with a county clerk: 3. An affidavit to be used in any court of justice of this state: and 4. To exercise any other power, and perform any other duty conferred or imposed upon them by this code, or by other statutes.

§ 343. A commissioner appointed under the last section must, before he can exercise the powers therein conferred, take and subscribe an oath before a judicial officer in the county or city where he resides, faithfully to perform the duties of the office of a commissioner to take affidavits, and the proof and acknowledgment of deeds out of this state, according to the laws thereof; and must file the oath in the office of the secretary of this state.

TITLE IV. OF THE MINISTERIAL OFFICERS OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

The attorney general.
District attorneys.
The state reporter.
Clerks.
Sheriffs.
Coroners.
County treasurers.
Criers.

CHAPTER I. THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.

His election or appointment.
His compensation.
How removed from office.
His general powers and duties.
Can commence once action only, on mortgages or contracts, against the same person.
If separate actions commenced against several, on same contract, how consolidated.
Must pay monies received, into the treasury.
In what cases he cannot act as attorney or counsel, in a civil action.
Must keep a register and deliver it to his successor.
Must keep a record of the statistics of litigation.
Must prepare and transmit blank forms, and compile, annually, statistics required in last section. 

§ 344. The attorney-general is elected by the electors of the state, for two years, or, when his office becomes vacant, is appointed, in the manner prescribed by the constitution and by special statutes.

§ 345. He receives for his services, a compensation established by special statutes, which cannot be increased or diminished during his continuance in office, and is prohibited from receiving to his own use, any fees or perquisites of office or other compensation.

§ 346. He may be removed from office by the court for the trial of impeachments, upon an impeachment by the assembly, for willful and corrupt misconduct in office.

§ 347. The attorney general has power and it is his duty, 1. To prosecute and defend all civil actions or special proceedings of a civil nature, to which the people of this state are a party, or in which they are interested: 2. To collect, if possible, costs adjudged to the people of this state, in an action prosecuted by him, to which they are a party or in which they are interested, and when collected, to pay them into the state treasury, deducting his legal disbursements in the prosecution or defense of the action: 3. Upon the requisition of the comptroller, or the state engineer and surveyor, to prepare the draft of a contract, obligation or other instrument required for the use of the state: 4. Upon the requisition of the governor, to attend a court of oyer and terminer or sessions, for the purpose of conducting a criminal action prosecuted by the people of this state : 5. Upon the requisition of the governor, the secretary of state, the comptroller, the treasurer, or the state engineer and surveyor, to prosecute a person charged with the commission of a public offense, in violation of statutes which either of those officers is specially required to execute, or in relation to matters connected with the department of either of them: 6. To cause a person indicted for corrupting, or attempting to corrupt a member, or a member elect of the legislature, or a commissioner of the land office, or for an offense against the statutes for the prevention of duelling, to be brought to trial without delay; and to attend in person to the discharge of this duty: 7. When he ascertains that real property, mortgaged to the people of this state is encumbered by prior mortgages or judgments, to discharge those liens and take an assignment thereof to the people, with the consent of the comptroller; and to receive the necessary monies for this purpose, out of the state treasury: 8. With the consent of the comptroller, to redeem, in the manner provided in this code, real property mortgaged to the people of this state, or purchased for them on the foreclosure of a mortgage, when sold upon a prior judgment: 9. To acknowledge satisfaction of a judgment in favor of the people of this state, when it is satisfied by payment, or when he is directed by the legislature: 10. To attend the legislature during its session, and to report on all matters referred to him by the legislature, or by the senate or assembly: 11. To administer oaths, in all matters relating to his office, in respect to which he may legally require proof: 12. To exercise any other power conferred upon him by the constitution, or by this code or by special statutes.

§ 348. When money is due to the people of this state, by several mortgages or contracts of the same nature, and executed by the same person, one action only can be commenced by the attorney general, for the recovery thereof.

§ 349. When separate actions are instituted by the attorney general, in behalf of the people of this state, against several persons on the same mortgage or contract, or who claim under the same title, he must, upon the request of the defendants, consent to a consolidation of the actions into one.

§ 350. All monies received by the attorney general, for debts due or penalties forfeited to the people of this state, must be paid by him, immediately after the receipt thereof, into the treasury.

§ 351. The attorney general cannot act as attorney, in a civil action or in a special proceeding of a civil nature, unless the people of this state are a party or interested therein; nor can he act as counsel in such action or proceeding, for a private party against whom a criminal action for a felony is pending, or who is the prosecutor therein.

§ 352. He must keep, in suitable books provided at the expense of the state, a register of all civil actions and special proceedings of a civil nature, prosecuted or defended by him in behalf of the people, and of the proceedings in relation thereto; and must deliver the same to his successor in office.

§ 353. There must be kept in the office of the attorney general a record of the statistics of litigation in the state, comprehending in tabular form; 1. The number of general terms held, with the time when the term commenced and the place where it was held: In the court of appeals: In the supreme court: In the superior court of the city of New-York: In the court of common pleas of the city of New-York: And showing in respect to each term, The number of judges present: The number of days actual session of the court: The whole number of hours of actual session of the court: The number of cases on the calendar: The number of cases contested, argued or submitted: The number not reached on the calendar for want of time: The number decided by the court during the term which were submitted or argued at the same term: The number decided by the court which were argued or submitted at a preceding term. 2. The number of circuits and courts of oyer and terminer in each county: The number of trial terms in the superior court and court of common pleas of the city of New York: The number of days’ actual session of the court: The average number of hours’ session of the court daily: The number of civil cases on the calendar for trial at each term: The number actually tried and contested, excluding judgments upon failure to answer: The number not reached on the calendar for want of time: 3. The number of criminal actions tried, including convictions by confession in each county: The whole number of convictions: The number of convictions under each of the following heads: Murder, manslaughter, arson, robbery, burglary, rape, thefts over fifty dollars, other felonies, all other offenses.

§ 354. The attorney general must prepare and cause to be printed blank tabular forms for the proper returns from the clerks of the several courts, embracing the particulars specified in the last section, and to transmit annually in the first week in July a sufficient number of such blanks for one year’s returns to the clerks of the several courts mentioned in section. 4. The several reports when received from the clerks must be filed and preserved with the records of the attorney general’s office, and he must annually on or before the first Monday of December in each year, compile the statistical record of litigation in the state, required in section 353, which shall be duly recorded and certified by him in a book to be kept for that purpose in his office.

CHAPTER II. DISTRICT ATTORNEYS.

District attorney in each county, how elected or appointed.
His removal from office.
He is the public prosecutor in his county.
Must attend courts of oyer and terminer and sessions, and city courts, in his county.
If he fail to do so, substitute how appointed, and his compensation.
When to institute proceedings before magistrates, and attend before the magistrate and grand jury.
When to prosecute for penalties and forfeitures.
To deliver receipt for money received by him, and file duplicate.
His accounts, when and how filed.
Action against him for failure to pay over money.
Salary, how fixed and paid.
In what cases, he cannot act as attorney or counsel, in a civil action.
Must keep a register, and deliver it to his successor.

§ 355. There is a district attorney in each county in this state, who is elected by the electors of the county, or when his office becomes vacant, is appointed, in the manner prescribed by the constitution and by special statutes.

§ 356. The district attorney may be removed from office, by the court for the trial of impeachments, upon an impeachment by the assembly, for willful and corrupt misconduct in office.

§ 357. The district attorney in each county, is the public prosecutor therein.

§ 358. He must attend the courts of oyer and terminer and sessions in his county, and the city court, if any, having criminal jurisdiction therein, and conduct, on behalf of the people, all prosecutions for public offenses.

§ 359. If he fail to attend any of those courts, the court must designate another person to perform the duties of the district attorney during his absence from the court, who shall receive a reasonable compensation, to be certified by the court, and paid from the county treasury.

§ 360. The district attorney must also institute proceedings before magistrates, for the arrest of persons charged with or reasonably suspected of public offenses, when he has information that any such offense has been committed; and for that purpose must attend upon the magistrate, in cases of arrest, when required by him, and must advise the grand jury, when asked to do so, as provided in the Code of Criminal Procedure.

§ 361. The district attorney must prosecute for all penalties and forfeitures to the people of this state, exceeding fifty dollars, which may be incurred in his county, and for which no other manner of collection is provided by statute.

§ 362. When he receives money or property in his official capacity, he must deliver a receipt thereforee to the person from whom he receives it, and file a duplicate thereof with the county treasurer.

§ 363. He must, on or before the first Tuesday of October, in each year, file in the office of the county treasurer an account in writing, verified by oath, of all money received by him in his official capacity during the preceding year; and must at the same time pay it over to the county treasurer.

§ 364. If he refuse or neglect to account for and pay over money so received by him, as required by the last section, the county treasurer must bring an action against him for the recovery thereof, in the name of the county.

§ 365. The district attorney of each county shall receive an annual salary, to be fixed by the board of supervisors of the county, and paid out of the county treasury.

§ 366. His salary must, at each annual meeting of the board of supervisors in November, be fixed for the ensuing year, and must be paid quarterly out of the county treasury; but at the end of the year, the board may make such additional allowances as are reasonable, for extraordinary services performed during the year; and no district attorney can receive any other compensation, costs or fees, for a service rendered in his official capacity.

§ 367. The district attorney cannot act as counsel, in a civil action or in a special proceeding of a civil nature, for a private party against whom a criminal action for a felony is pending, or who is the prosecutor therein.

§ 368. The district attorney must keep a register of his official business, in which must be entered a note of every indictment, the time when it was found, and the proceedings thereon. The register must, at the expiration of his term of office, he delivered by him to his successor in office.

CHAPTER III. THE STATE REPORTER.

How appointed, his tenure of office, removal, and compensation.
His duties.
To have no interest in the publication of reports. Reports free for publication.
Reports, how published and distributed.

§ 369. The state reporter is appointed by the governor, lieutenant governor and attorney general, and holds his office for three years, but may be sooner removed by the legislature, a majority of the members elected to each house voting for his removal. His compensation is fixed by special statutes.

§ 370. The state reporter must report and publish, within thirty days after the adjournment of each term, of the court of appeals, a concise outline of the facts and decision in every case determined at that term, with any opinion of the court delivered to him for that purpose; omitting, however, every opinion dissenting from the decision, except in a case involving the construction of the constitution of this state or of the United States.

§ 371. The state reporter can have no pecuniary interest in the publication of the reports, nor can a copyright for them be secured by him or any other person: but they are free for publication by all.

§ 372. The reports must be published in pampfilet form, under the supervision of the state reporter, by contract, as prescribed by special statutes, and designated “The New-York Reports.” Each volume must contain at least six hundred pages, with a suitable table of the names of the cases reported, head notes to each case, and an index of the principal matters contained in each volume. Their sale and distribution is provided for by special statutes.

CHAPTER IV. THE CLERKS OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

The clerks, in general.
Their powers and duties.
The places of keeping the clerks’ offices, and their office hours.
Deputy clerks.
Removal of papers from on clerk’s office of the supreme court to another.
Miscellaneous provisions respecting the clerks and deputy clerks. 

ARTICLE I. THE CLERKS OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE IN GENERAL.

What courts have clerks.
Their compensation.
Their election of appointment, qualifications, tenure of office and removal.
Clerk of senate, to be clerk of the court for the trial of impeachments.
Clerk of court of appeals, to be clerk of supreme court.
County clerk, of what courts to be clerk.
Police clerks in New-York, to be clerks of police courts.
Clerk of court of common pleas in New-York, how appointed, and his tenure of office.
Office to be assigned him, and his compensation.
County clerk in New-York, to deliver records, &c., to clerk of common pleas.

§ 373. The following courts and no other, have clerks: 1. The court for the trial of impeachments: 2. The court of appeals: 3. The supreme court: 4. The superior court of the city of New-York: 5. The court of common pleas of the city of New-York: 6. The courts of oyer and terminer: 7. The county courts. 8. The courts of sessions: 9. The city courts: 10. The justices’ courts of the cities of Albany, Hudson, New-York and Troy. 11. The marine court of the city of New-York: 12. The police courts in the city of New-York.

§ 374. Except where their compensation is fixed by special statutes, the clerks are entitled, for their services, to receive to their own use the fees provided in this code. When their compensation is fixed by special statutes, they must receive those fees, and account for and pay them over in the manner therein provided.

§ 375. The clerks are elected or appointed in the manner prescribed by the constitution and by special statutes, except as provided in this article. Their qualifications for and tenure of office, and the manner of their removal therefrom and of filling a vacancy therein, are provided for in the same manner.

§ 376. The clerk of the senate is, by virtue of his office, the clerk of the court for the trial of impeachments.

§ 377. The clerk of the court of appeals is, by virtue of his office, clerk of the supreme court.

§ 378. The county clerk of each county is, by virtue of his office, the clerk, in his county, of each of the following courts: 1. The supreme court: 2. The courts of oyer and terminer and sessions, except in the city and county of New-York: 3. The county court.

§ 379. There are six police clerks in the city of New-York, who are appointed by the common council of that city, and hold their offices for four years. They are assigned to police districts, in the manner prescribed by the common council, under the authority of special statutes, and are, by virtue of their offices, clerks of the police courts in the districts to which they are thus assigned.

§ 380. The court of common pleas of the city of New-York shall have a clerk to be appointed by the court, until the legislature otherwise provide, and to hold his office during the pleasure of the court.

§ 381. The common council of the city of New-York must, by ordinance, assign the clerk so appointed, a suitable office in the city hall in that city. The board of supervisors must regulate his compensation and the number and compensation of his clerks, which compensation must be paid out of the fees received by the clerk, in the manner provided by special statutes, in respect to the clerk of the superior court.

§ 382. The county clerk of the city and county of New-York must also, on demand, deliver all property, books, records, and papers appertaining to the court of common pleas, to the clerk of that court.

ARTICLE II. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CLERKS OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

Their duties.
Duty of police clerks in New-York.
Power of clerks to take affidavits.
When and how to pay money brought into court to county treasurer. 

§ 383. It is the duty of the clerk of each of the courts mentioned in section 373, except the police clerks in the city of New-York, 1. To keep the seal of the court, and affix it in cases mentioned in section 212, and to any other writ, when required to do so: 2. To record the proceedings of the court: 3. To keep the records, and other books and papers appertaining to the court: 4. To file all papers delivered to him for that purpose in an action or special proceeding in the court: 5. To attend the terms and circuits of the court of which he is clerk; to administer oaths in an action or special proceeding, in the presence of the court, and under its direction; and to receive the verdict of a jury: 6. To keep the minutes of the proceedings of the court, at its terms or circuits, and under the direction of the court, to enter its orders and judgments: 7. To authenticate, by certificate or exemplification, as may be required, the records or proceedings of the court, or any other paper appertaining thereto, and filed with him: 8. To deposit all monies paid, or brought into court, and delivered to him, with the county treasurer, as provided in this code: 9. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him by other provisions of this code, or by other statutes: 10. In the performance of his duties, to conform to the directions of the court.

§ 384. It is the duty of each of the police clerks in the city of New-York, 1. To prepare, under the direction of the magistrate, all papers appertaining to any matter pending before him, when acting as a magistrate or holding a police court: 2. To keep the records and other papers appertaining to the police office or police court: 3. To attend at the police office to which he is assigned, at such times as are or may be prescribed by ordinance, by the common council of that city: 4. To attend the police court in the district to which he is assigned; to keep the minutes of its proceedings: under its direction, to enter its orders and judgments; and to authenticate its proceedings by his certificate: 5. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him by the code of criminal procedure.

§ 385. The clerk of each of the courts mentioned in section 373, has power to take affidavits to be read or used in a court or before a judicial officer; but when the clerk is elected or appointed in a county, city, town or district, his power in this respect is co-extensive therewith only.

§ 386. When money is paid or brought into court for any purpose, in an action or special proceeding, the clerk must within five days thereafter, deliver the same to the treasurer of the county, by whom it must be kept subject to the order of the court.

ARTICLE III. THE PLACES OF KEEPING THE CLERKS’ OFFICES, AND THEIR OFFICE HOURS.

Places of keeping their offices.
Their office hours.

§ 387. The office of the clerk of the court of appeals must be kept in the state hall in the city of Albany; that of the clerk of every other court, in the building provided for that purpose, by the supervisors of the county or the common council of the city in which the court is held.

§ 388. Each of the clerks must keep his office open for the transaction of business, on every day, except those mentioned in section 193, as follows: 1. In the city of New-York, from nine in the forenoon to four o’clock in the afternoon: 2. In every other part of the state, from eight to twelve in the forenoon, and from one to five o'clock in the afternoon.

ARTICLE IV. DEPUTY CLERKS.

What clerks to have deputies, and manner and filling of appointment.
Duties of deputy clerk.
In what cases to perform the duties of clerk.

§ 389. The clerk of the court of appeals, the court clerks, and the clerks of the city courts and of the superior court and courts of common pleas and sessions of the city of New-York, must each have a deputy, appointed by him in writing and to continue, during his pleasure. The appointment must be filed in the office of the clerk by whom it is made.

§ 390. The deputy clerk must attend at the office of the clerk during the office hours prescribed in section 388, and must perform such services relating to the duties of the clerk, as may be required by that officer.

§ 391. When the office of the clerk is vacant, or by reason of his absence from the office or other disability, he is unable to perform his duties, they may be performed by the deputy.

ARTICLE V. REMOVAL OF PAPERS FROM ONE CLERK’S OFFICE OF THE SUPREME COURT TO ANOTHER.

When and how ordered.

§ 392. The supreme court may, for good cause, on motion, direct the removal from one clerk’s office to another, of records or other papers relating to an action or proceeding therein.

ARTICLE VI. MISCELANEOUS PROVISIONS, RESPECTING THE CLERKS AND DEPUTY CLERKS OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

Statistics of business of court, how kept and filed. Transmission of same to attorney general.
Disabilities of clerks and deputy clerks.

§ 393. The clerk of each of the courts mentioned in section 389, must within one week after the close of a term or circuit, prepare duplicate reports of the business in his court, by filing the blanks transmitted to him by the attorney general, pursuant to notice, one of which duplicates must be filed and preserved in his office, and the other he must immediately transmit to the attorney general. For his services under this section, the clerk is entitled to the same fees as for certified copies of papers; and the expense thereof is a county charge.

§ 394. The clerk of each of the courts mentioned in section 389, and his deputy, are prohibited during their continuance in office. 1. From acting, or having a partner who acts, as an attorney or counsellor therein: 2. From being interested in the costs or fees in an action or proceeding therein, except when they are parties to the action or proceeding, or interested in the subject thereof.

CHAPTER V. SHERIFFS.

Sheriffs, and their duties, in general.
Sheriff’s offices, and office hours.
Under and deputy sheriffs.
Duties of sheriffs, in the execution and return of process.
Proceedings in case of resistance to the execution of process.
Conduct of the sheriff, to persons arrested on civil process.
County jails; the keeping of prisoners therein; and the protection thereof.
Jail liberties; and the admission of prisoners thereto.
Escapes, and the liabilities of sheriff’s thereforee.
Assignment of the jail, and of prisoners and process, to a new sheriff.
Provisions respecting persons committed, under the authority of courts of the United States, to a county jail.
Miscellaneous provisions respecting sheriffs and their officers. 

ARTICLE I. SHERIFFS, AND THEIR DUTIES, IN GENERAL.

Election of sheriff; his removal, security and compensation.
He is the chief executive officer and conservator of the peace of his county.
His general duties.
Can hold no other office, and is ineligible to a re-election.
County not responsible for his acts. 

§ 395. There is a sheriff in each of the counties of this state, who is elected by the electors of the county, at a general election, once in every three years, and as often as there is a vacancy. The manner of his election and removal, of giving and renewing his official bonds, and of supplying a vacancy in his office, is prescribed by the constitution and by special statutes. His compensation is prescribed by this code, and by the code of criminal procedure.

§ 396. The sheriff is the chief executive officer, and conservator of the peace of his county.

§ 397. In the execution of his office, it is his duty, 1. To arrest and commit to prison, all persons who break the peace or attempt to break it, and all persons guilty of public offenses: 2. To defend this county against the public enemies, against those who, by riot or otherwise, endanger the public peace or safety: 3. To execute the process and orders of the courts of justice or of judicial officers, when delivered to him for that purpose, according to the provisions of this code, or of the code of criminal procedure: 4. To execute all warrants delivered to him for that purpose, by other public officers, according to the provisions of special statutes: 5. To attend the term of a court within his county, (except a justice’s court or the marine court of the City of New-York,) when required by the court, and to obey its lawful orders and directions: 6. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him by the constitution, and by other statutes: 7. In the execution of these powers and duties, to command the aid of as many male inhabitants of his county, as he may think proper, and any military company or companies, armed and equipped.

§ 398. A sheriff can hold no other office, and is ineligible for the next three years after the termination of his office.

§ 399. The county is not responsible for the acts of the sheriff.

ARTICLE II. SHERIFFS’ OFFICES, AND OFFICE HOURS.

Place of keeping his office.
Office hours.
Service of papers on sheriff, when and where made.

§ 400. The sheriff must keep an office in the place in which the county court house is situated, of which he must file a notice in the office of the county clerk. If there be more than one such place, the notice must state in which of them the office is kept, or it may be kept in each.

§ 401. The sheriff’s office must be kept open on the days, and during the hours, mentioned in section 388.

§ 402. Service of a paper upon the sheriff, may be made by delivering it to a person belonging to and in the office during office hours, or if no such person be there, by leaving it in the office. If, however, no notice of the place of keeping his office be filed, the service may be made at the county clerk’s office, upon the county clerk or his deputy. The service in the cases provided in this section is equivalent to a personal service on the sheriff.

ARTICLE III. UNDER AND DEPUTY SHERIFFS.

How appointed.
Their duties.
Under sheriff, when to set as sheriff.

§ 403. The sheriff, immediately after entering upon his office, must appoint an under sheriff, to hold during his pleasure: and must make a similar appointment, as often as a vacancy occurs in the office of under sheriff. He may also appoint as many deputies as he thinks proper; and may grant a special written authority to any other person to do a particular act.

§ 404. The appointment of an under sheriff and of a Deputy sheriff, must be in writing, and filed in the office of the county clerk. The person appointed must also, before entering upon his office, take and file with the county clerk, the constitutional oath of office.

§ 405. The under sheriff must perform such services relating to the duties of the sheriff, as may be required by that officer. A deputy sheriff must execute all orders or process of a court or judicial officer, delivered to him for that purpose, and may perform every act incidental thereto.

§ 406. During a vacancy in the office of sheriff, the under sheriff must act as sheriff: and his neglect or misconduct in office, is a breach of the official bond of the sheriff by whom he was appointed as well as of the security given by him to the sheriff.

ARTICLE IV. DUTIES OF OFFICERS IN THE EXECUTION AND RETURN OF PROCESS.

When to furnish copy of process.
How to execute process.

§ 407. When process of any description is delivered to an officer, to be executed, he must deliver to the person delivering it, if required, on payment of his fee, a written memorandum, signed by him, specifying the names of the parties in the process, the general nature thereof, and the day on which it was received. He must also, upon the request of the party served, without fee deliver to him a copy thereof.

§ 408. An officer to whom process is delivered, must execute it according to its command, or as required by this code or by special statutes; and must make a written return of the execution thereof. For a failure to do so, he is liable to an action, at the suit of the party aggrieved, for the damages sustained by him, in addition to any other fine or punishment.

ARTICLE V. PROCEEDINGS, IN CASE OF RESISTANCE TO THE EXECUTION OF PROCESS.

Duty of officer, if execution of process be resisted.
Duty of persons to aid him, and consequences of refusal.

§ 409. When an officer finds or has reason to apprehend, that resistance will be made to the execution of process, delivered to him for service, he may command as many male inhabitants of his county as he may think proper, and any military company or companies in the county, armed and equipped, to assist him in overcoming the resistance, and if necessary in seizing, arresting and confining the resisters and their aiders and abettors, to be punished according to law.

§ 410. Every person commanded by an officer to assist him in the execution of process, as provided in section 409, who without lawful cause, refuses or neglects to obey the command, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

ARTICLE VI. CONDUCT OF THE SHERIFF TO PERSONS ARRESTED ON CIVIL PROCESS.

Prohibited from receiving gratuity.
When he may receive compensation for lodging or necessaries.
Prisoner arrested, may procure necessaries.
Sheriffs may pass through other counties with prisoner.

§ 411. Neither the sheriff, nor any other officer, can charge or receive from a person arrested on civil process, compensation for necessaries or lodging furnished to him while he is in custody, or for his commitment or discharge, except as specially authorized by this code; nor can he demand or receive a gratuity for keeping a prisoner out of jail, or for waiting for him to find bail, or agree with the adverse party, or for any other purpose.

§ 412. If a person arrested be kept in a house other than the county jail, neither the officer arresting him, nor the person in whose custody he is, can receive from him a greater sum for lodging or necessaries, than is prescribed by the county judge. If no such rate have been prescribed, the officer or person in whose custody the prisoner is, cannot receive a greater sum than may be allowed by a justice of the peace, of the town, on proof that the lodging or necessaries were furnished at the request of the prisoner. And no compensation can in any case be received, for intoxicating liquors sold or delivered to the prisoner.

§ 413. A person arrested and kept in a house, other than a county jail, may procure such necessaries as he may think fit, without the detention thereof, or payment thereforee, to the officer arresting him, or the person in whose custody he is.

§ 414. A sheriff or other officer who has arrested a person in one county, may pass through such, parts of another county or counties, as are in the usual route of travel, from the place where the prisoner was arrested, to that to which he is to be conveyed and delivered. And neither the prisoner nor the officer having him in custody, can be arrested on civil process, while passing through any other county than that in which the arrest was made.

ARTICLE VII. COUNTY JAILS; THE KEEPING OF PRISONERS THEREIN; AND THE PROTECTION THEREOF.

County jails established.
By whom kept, and for what purpose.
Sheriff to appoint keeper of jail.
Rooms in jail. 
Regulations to keeping prisoners separate. Duty of supervisors.
What are the county jails.
Regulations thereof.
Designation of the jail of another county, in certain cases. 
Duty of the sheriff and keeper of the jail designated, in such case.
Regulations as to admission to jail liberties, when jail of another county is designated.
Designation of jail of another county, when and how revoked.
Revocation to be served on sheriff, and his duty thereon.
Confinement of prisoners, when there is more than one jail in the county.
Removal of prisoners in case of fire.
Removal of prisoners in case of pesfilence or contagious disease.
Physician to jail, how and by whom appointed.
Regulations as to bringing and using intoxicating liquors in jail.
Papers directed to prisoner, by whom and when delivered to him. Penalty for neglect.
Guard of jail how to be organized.
Under whose command to be placed.
Their compensation, and how paid and collected.
Temporary guard, when and how exercised.
Expenses of sheriff or other county officer, pursuant to last seven sections, a county charge. 

§ 415. There is in each of the counties of this state, a prison known as the county jail.

§ 416. The county jail is kept by the sheriff, and is, (except in the city and county of New-York,) used as a prison, 1. For the detention of persons committed in default of security to appear as witnesses in a criminal action, as provided in the code of criminal procedure: 2. For the detention of persons committed for trial for a public offense: 3. For the confinement of persons committed for a contempt, or upon civil process: and 4. For the confinement of persons sentenced to imprisonment therein, upon conviction for a public offense.

§ 417. In the city and county of New-York, the sheriff has the custody of the county jail for the confinement of persons committed for contempt or upon civil process. The prison in that city and county, for the detention of persons committed in default of security to appear as witnesses in a criminal action, or charged with crime and committed for trial, or sentenced to imprisonment therein upon conviction of a public offense, is known as the city prison; and that for the imprisonment therein upon conviction of a public offense, is known as the penitentiary. Both these prisons are under the charge of the governors of the alms house of the city of New-York, whose powers in this respect are regulated by special statutes.

§ 418. The sheriff may appoint a keeper of the county jail, for whose acts as such he is responsible.

§ 419. The county jail must be provided by the supervisors of the county, and must contain a sufficient number of rooms, 1. For the confinement of persons, committed for trial in criminal actions, separate and distinct from prisoners under sentence: 2. For the confinement of prisoners, under sentence: 3. For the confinement of persons committed on civil process for contempt, or as witnesses, separate from those mentioned in the last two subdivisions.

§ 420. Persons committed on criminal process and detained for trial, and those committed for contempt or upon civil process, must be kept in separate rooms from those in which persons convicted and under sentence, are confined; and on no pretense whatever, can persons detained for trial or committed for contempt or on civil process, be kept or put in the same room with those convicted and under sentence.

§ 421. Male and female prisoners, (except husband and wife,) must not be kept or put in the same room. The supervisors of each county must as soon as can conveniently be done, so construct or alter the jail or other prison of the county, as to enable the sheriff to confine all persons committed for trial or upon conviction for public offenses, in separate rooms. And after such provision is made, each person must be confined in a separate room, and not be permitted to associate with another prisoner.

§ 422. The buildings now used as county jails are continued as such, until other buildings are designated for that purpose by the supervisors of the county.

§ 423. Except as provided in this article, the regulations of the county jails and prisons, in respect to prisoners committed thereto for trial or sentence upon conviction for a public offense, are prescribed by special statutes.

§ 424. When them is no jail in the county, or when the jail becomes unfit or unsafe for the confinement of prisoners, the county judge must, by a written appointment, filed with the county clerk, designate the jail of a contiguous county for the confinement of the prisoners of his county, or of any of them, and may at any time modify or annul the appointment.

§ 425. A copy of the appointment, certified by the county clerk, must be served on the sheriff and keeper of the jail designated; who must receive into his jail, and safely keep, all prisoners authorized to be confined therein pursuant to the last section; and who is responsible for the safe keeping of the persons so committed, in the same manner and to the same extent, as if he were sheriff of the county for whose use his jail is designated; and with respect to the persons so committed, he is deemed the sheriff of the county from which they were removed.

§ 426. If a person confined on civil process, have been previously admitted to the jail liberties of the county for which the designation is made, he may remain within those liberties, or may be removed to the jail designated, by the sheriff to whom he has given an undertaking for the liberties, in the same cases and in the same manner as the sheriff might legally confine him in the jail of his own county.

§ 427. If a person in the custody of the sheriff of the county for which the designation has been made, be entitled to the jail liberties, he must be confined within the jail liberties, of the original county, as if no such designation had been made, but may be removed by the sheriff to the jail so designated, and confined therein, in the same cases and in the same manner, as he might legally confine him in the jail of his own county.

§ 428. If a person confined in the jail so designated, on civil process, or removed there, as provided in section 425, be entitled to the jail liberties, the sheriff of the county in which the jail so designated is, must admit him to the jail liberties, as if he had been originally arrested by him.

§ 429. When a jail is erected in the county for whose use the designation was made, or its jail is rendered fit and safe for the confinement of prisoners, the county judge of that county must, by a written revocation, filed with the county clerk thereof, declare that the necessity for the designation has ceased and that it is revoked.

§ 430. The county clerk must immediately serve a copy of the revocation upon the sheriff of his county, who must thereupon remove his prisoners to his own jail; and if a prisoner have been admitted to the jail liberties of the other county, he must also be removed, and is entitled to the jail liberties of the county to which he is removed, as if he had been originally arrested therein.

§ 431. The sheriff of a county in which there is more than one jail, may confine his prisoners in either of them, and may remove them from one jail to another in the county, when he deems it necessary for their safe keeping or for their appearance at court.

§ 432. When a county jail or a building contiguous to it is on fire, and there is reason to apprehend that the prisoners may be injured or endangered, the sheriff or jailer may remove them to a safe and convenient place, and there confine them, so long as is necessary to avoid the danger.

§ 433. When a pesfilence or contagious disease breaks out in or near to a jail, and the physician thereof certifies that it is likely to endanger the health of the prisoners, the county judge of the county, or the mayor or recorder of a city in which it is situated, may, by a written appointment, designate a safe and convenient place in the county, or the jail of a contiguous county, as the place of their confinement. The appointment must be filed in the office of the county clerk, and must authorize the sheriff to remove the prisoners to the place or jail designated, and there confine them, until they can be safely returned to the jail from which they were taken.

§ 434. The board of supervisors of each county must, from time to time, appoint a physician to the jail of the county; and if there be more than one jail in the county, a physician to each jail.

§ 435. Intoxicating liquors must not, on any pretense, be sold in a county jail; nor can they be brought into a jail for the use of the person confined therein, without a written permit by the physician.

§ 436. A person who sells or brings into jail intoxicating liquors, contrary to the last section, and a sheriff or other officer employed about a jail, who knowingly suffers them to be sold or used contrary thereto, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction, is punishable by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, or both; and a sheriff so convicted, shall forfeit his office.

§ 437. A sheriff or jailer, upon whom a paper in a judicial proceeding, directed to a prisoner in his custody, is served, must forthwith deliver it to the prisoner, with a note thereon of the time of its service. For a neglect to do so, he is liable to the prisoner for all damages occasioned thereby; and by a willful omission in this respect, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 438. On the written application of the sheriff, with the assent of the county judge, or in the city of New-York, of the recorder or city judge, the governor may authorize the sheriff to organize a guard, not exceeding a specified number, for the protection of the county jail or any other prison in the county, or to arrest or detain a prisoner, or to enforce the process, order or judgment of a court. He may also authorize the sheriff to contract with one or more uniform companies to form the guard, and may at any time revoke or modify the authority.

§ 439. The guard must be under the command of the officers designated by the governor, or if he make no designation, under that of the sheriff, and of such civil and military officers as he may assign; and is subject to the regulations and penalties prescribed by the governor, before or after its organization. The governor may also direct the delivery to the guard, of such ammunition as he may deem necessary.

§ 440. The guard is entitled to the allowance agreed upon before or after their employment, not exceeding one dollar a day for a private, or two dollars a day for an officer.

§ 411. The comptroller may require vouchers and proofs of the agreement, services and expenses, relating to the guard, and may allow such sum thereforee as he deems just. He may draw thereforee, upon the state treasury, and must charge it to the county for whose benefit it was paid, and certify the amount thereof, to the treasurer of the county, by whom it must be laid before the supervisors at their next annual meeting.

§ 442. The supervisors must thereupon direct the amount to be levied and collected, as a county charge; but if they think it would be unreasonably burdensome to raise it all in one year, they may divide it into not exceeding three equal parts, and order it to be levied in an equal proportion in three successive years.

§ 443. When collected in whole or in part, the money must be paid to the county treasurer, by whom it must be paid to the state treasurer, to the credit of the county, on or before the first day of May, after its collection.

§ 444. The sheriff, when he deems it necessary, may with the assent of the county judge, or, in the city and county of New-York, of the recorder or city judge, employ a temporary guard for the protection of the county jail, or of any other prison in his county, or for the safe keeping of prisoners, until a guard can be organized, as provided in section 438 ; the expenses of which are a county charge.

§ 445. The expenses of the sheriff, or any other county officer, incurred, pursuant to the last seven sections, are also a county charge.

ARTICLE VIII. JAIL LIBERTIES; AND THE ADMISSION OF PRISONERS THERETO.

Present jail liberties, continued.
Jail liberties, how and by whom established.
How and by whom altered.
Order establishing or altering jail liberties, how filed and served.
Admission of prisoner to jail liberties.
Security thereforee. 
If security insufficient, prisoner to be re-committed.
Surrender of prisoner.
Retaking prisoner, after escape.

§ 446. The jail liberties in each county, are continued as now established, subject to alteration as provided in section 448.

§ 447. When the jail liberties have not been established, and in counties hereafter erected, the supervisors of the county must appoint a reasonable space of ground, adjacent to the jail of the county, to be denominated the jail liberties, as follows: 1. The liberties must be laid out as nearly as maybe, in a square; except that a stream of water, canal or highway, may be adopted as an exterior line, though not in a straight line, or at right angles with the other exterior lines: 2. They must not exceed five hundred acres in extent, and must include the courthouse, and the office of the county clerk: 3. A minute description of their boundaries and extent, must be filed with the county clerk: 4. The boundaries and limits of the liberties must be designated, by visible and permanent objects.

§ 448. The jail liberties may be altered by the supervisors, not oftener than once in three years, and must be designated in the same manner and subject to the same restrictions, as are prescribed in the last section. But when they have been fixed by statute, no alteration can be made excluding a part of the existing jail liberties.

§ 449. A copy of the order establishing or altering the jail liberties, must be filed with the county clerk, by whom a certified copy must be immediately delivered to the sheriff, which must be conspicuously posted in the county jail.

§ 450. A person in the custody of the sheriff, in a civil action, by virtue of an order of arrest or an execution, or upon a surrender in exoneration of bail, or upon a commitment, for not paying money, may go at large within the jail liberties, with the consent of the sheriff. He must, however, be admitted to the jail liberties, upon giving security thereforee, as provided in the next section.

§ 451. The security for the jail liberties must be by a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, stating their places of residence and occupations, to the effect that the prisoner shall not go beyond the jail liberties, until legally discharged, or that the sureties will pay to the person at whose suit the prisoner is in custody, a sum mentioned in the undertaking, and which must be as follows: 1. If upon an order of arrest, or a surrender in exoneration of bail, in a civil action, before judgment, the sum recovered by the judgment, not exceeding that mentioned in the warrant of arrest, with interest and the sheriff ’s fees. 2. If upon an execution in a civil action, or a commitment for not paying money, a sum not exceeding that mentioned therein, with interest and the sheriff’s fees.

§ 452. If the sheriff at any time discover that either of the sureties for the jail liberties is insufficient, he may re-commit -the prisoner to jail, until other sufficient security be given.

§ 453. The sureties, at any time before judgment against them upon their undertaking, may surrender the prisoner, or he may surrender himself to the sheriff or jailer, in exoneration of his sureties from a future liability, but not from a liability incurred before the surrender. The sheriff or jailer must thereupon, on the written requirement of the sureties, receive the prisoner into custody, and must endorse the surrender upon the undertaking, and if required, give to the sureties a certificate thereof.

§ 454. If a prisoner, allowed by the sheriff to go at large within the jail liberties, go beyond them without the consent, connivance or procurement of the adverse party, the sheriff in whose custody he is, may pursue and re-take him, as if he had escaped from the jail.

ARTICLE IX. ESCAPES, AND THE LIABILITIES OF SHERIFFS THEREFORE.

In what cases, prisoner to be actually confined.
Sheriff, when liable for escape.
Action may be brought against sheriff or sureties for the liberties.
Action cannot be brought, if prisoner return before commencement thereof.
Judgment against sheriff, when evidence against sureties.
Measure of damages, in action for escape.
Proceedings on judgment against sheriff, when and for what purpose to be stayed.
Punishment of sheriff, &c., for conniving at escape. 

§ 455. A prisoner committed to the county jail for a contempt, or for trial or upon conviction for a public offense, or in default of security to appear as a witness in a criminal action, must be actually confined in the jail, until he is legally discharged; and if he be permitted to go at large out of the jail, except by virtue of a legal order or process, it is an escape, and the sheriff or jailer permitting it is punishable for a misdemeanor; and when the prisoner escaping is also held until he pay a sum of money to a private party, that party may recover, in a civil action against the sheriff, his damages sustained by reason of the escape.

§ 456. A sheriff who suffers the escape of a prisoner, arrested or in jail, without the consent or connivance of the party in whose behalf the arrest or imprisonment was made, is liable to an action by such party thereforee as follows: 1. When the arrest is upon an order of arrest in a civil action, when the presence of the defendant at the return of the summons is necessary to enable the plaintifff to proceed in the action, and the defendant does not appear at the time and place specified for the return of the summons: 2. When the arrest or imprisonment is upon an order of arrest in any other civil action, or upon a surrender in exoneration of the sheriff or of bail, and the defendant is not found upon an execution against his person, issued to the proper county on a judgment in such action: 3. When the arrest is on an execution or commitment to enforce the payment of money, and the party arrested is not recaptured or surrendered into custody, at the expiration of the time limited for the service thereof, or legally discharged therefrom: 4. When a person is imprisoned on an execution or commitment to enforce the payment of money, and he escapes after the time limited for the service and is not recaptured or surrendered before an action brought for the escape.

§ 457. The measure of damages, in an action for an escape, as provided in the last section is as follows: 1. For the escape mentioned in subdivision 1 of the last section: 2. In any other case, the amount expressed in the execution or commitment: 3. The actual damages sustained.

§ 458. An action for the escape of a prisoner confined in a jail for either of the causes mentioned in section 450, or admitted to the jail liberties, may be brought, by the adverse party against either the sheriff or the sureties for the jail liberties; but the election to sue the sureties discharges the sheriff.

§ 459. The action cannot however be maintained, if, after his escape and before the commencement of the action, the prisoner return to the jail or the liberties thereof, or be taken by the sheriff.

§ 460. If the action be brought against the sheriff, and he give written notice thereof to the prisoner or to his sureties, a judgment against the sheriff is conclusive evidence of his right to recover against the prisoner or his sureties, as to any matter which was or might have been controverted in the action against the sheriff. In an action by the sheriff against the prisoner or his sureties, the judgment against the sheriff for the escape of the prisoner, is evidence of the damages sustained by him, in the same manner as if it had been collected; and he is also entitled to recover his costs and reasonable expenses in defending the action against him, as part of his damages.

§ 461. If the action be brought against the sheriff, when security for the jail liberties has been taken, the court must, unless the escape was with the assent of the sheriff, stay all proceedings upon a judgment thereon against him, until the expiration of a reasonable time to enable him to prosecute the sureties, and collect from them the amount of the judgment be may recover.

§ 462. A sheriff, jailer or other officer, who demands or receives a reward or gratuity, to aid, assist or connive at the escape of a prisoner in his custody, is punishable for a misdemeanor; and if he be a sheriff, forfeits his office. If a sheriff be convicted, as provided in this section, the court must immediately report the fact of his conviction to the governor.

ARTICLE X. ASSIGNMENT OF THE JAIL AND OF PRISONERS AND PROCESS, TO A NEW SHERIFF.

Notice of election or appointment of new sheriff, and effect thereof.
Delivery of jail and of prisoners and process, to new sheriff.
Assignment of prisoners.
Execution and return of process, by former sheriff.
Proceedings to compel delivery of jail, &c., and assignment of prisoners, to new sheriff.

§ 463. When a new sheriff is elected or appointed, and has qualified and given the security required by special statutes, the county clerk must give a certificate of that fact, under his seal of office; upon the service of which on the former sheriff, his powers cease, except when otherwise specially provided.

§ 464. Within three days after the service of the certificate upon the former sheriff, he must deliver to his successor, 1. The jail or jails of the county, with their appurtenances and the property of the county therein: 2. The prisoners then confined in the county jail: 3. The process, or other papers in his custody, authorizing or relating to the confinement of the prisoners, or if they have been returned, a written statement of their contents and the time of their return: 4. All process for the arrest of a party, and all papers relating to the summoning of a grand or trial jury, which have not been fully executed: 5. All executions, attachments and final process, except those which he has executed or has begun to execute, by the collection of money or a levy on property.

§ 465. He must also, at the same time, deliver to the new sheriff, a written assignment of the property, process, papers, and prisoners delivered, specifying the authority by which each prisoner was committed and is detained, and whether or not it be returned or delivered to the new sheriff. The new sheriff must thereupon acknowledge, in writing, upon a duplicate of the assignment, the receipt of the property, process, papers and prisoners therein specified.

§ 466. Notwithstanding the election or appointment of a new sheriff, the former sheriff must return all process before or after judgment, which he has fully executed, and must complete the execution of all final process which he has begun to execute.

§ 467. If the former sheriff neglect or refuse to deliver to his successor the jail, process, papers and prisoners in his charge, as required by section 464, the new sheriff may, notwithstanding, take possession of the jail, and of the prisoners confined therein, and may compel the delivery of the process and papers, in the manner prescribed in this code.

ARTICLE XI. PROVISIONS RESPECTING PERSONS COMMITTED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES, TO A COUNTY JAIL.

Sheriff to receive and keep in county jail, prisoners committed, under process of United States courts. His compensation.
Sheriff or jailer answerable for safekeeping of such prisoners. 

§ 468. The sheriff must receive and keep in the county jail, every prisoner who is committed thereto, under civil process issued by a court of the United States, until he be discharged according to the laws thereof, as if he had been committed under civil process issued under the authority of this state. He may also receive, to his own use, the sum payable by the United States for the use of the jail.

§ 469. A sheriff or jailer, to whose custody a prisoner is committed, as provided in the last section, is answerable for his safe keeping, in the courts of the United States, according to the laws thereof.

ARTICLE XII. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS RESPECTING SHERIFFS AND THEIR OFFICERS.

Directions of party or attorney, not to excuse sheriff, unless in writing.
When sheriff committed for not paying over money, the fact to be reported to the governor.
Compensation to sheriff for services to the state.
Sheriff, how to common jury of inquest.
Sheriff, justified by process regular on its face.
Officer executing warranting, &c., bound to show it.
Disabilities of sheriff and his officers. 

§ 470. No direction or authority, by a party or his attorney, to a sheriff, or to an under or deputy sheriff or jailer, in respect to the execution of process or the return thereof, or to any act or omission relating thereto, is available to discharge or excuse the sheriff from a liability for neglect or misconduct unless it be contained in a writing signed by the party to be charged or affected thereby, or his attorney.

§ 471. When the sheriff is committed to the custody of another sheriff or of a coroner, under an execution or commitment for not paying over money received by him by virtue of his office, and remains committed for thirty days, the fact must be reported by the officer in whose custody he is, to the governor.

§ 472. When the sheriff or other officer is legally required to perform a service in behalf of the people of this state, which is not chargeable to his county, or to some other person, his account thereforee must be audited by the comptroller, and paid out of the state treasury.

§ 473. When a sheriff is authorized to summon a jury of inquest, or when, in any special proceeding, a jury is authorized, and express provision for drawing it is not made by a particular provision of this code, the jury may be drawn from any justice’s jury-box, in the presence of the justice, by drawing the names of eighteen jurors, summoning them, and at the time of appearance, drawing or selecting from those who appear, the number sufficient to complete the jury.

§ 474. A sheriff, or other ministerial officer, is justified in the execution of process, regular on its face, and appearing to have been issued by competent authority, whatever may be the defect in the proceedings upon which it was issued.

§ 475. The officer executing a warrant, order or process of any kind, is then, and at all times subsequent, so long as he retains it, bound to show the same, with all papers attached, to any person interested therein.

§ 476. A sheriff, under or deputy sheriff or jailer is prohibited during his continuance in office, 1. From acting, or having a partner who acts, as an attorney or counsellor: 2. From being interested in the costs or fees in an action or special proceeding, except where he is a party thereto or interested in the subject thereof.

CHAPTER VI. CORONERS.

Coroners and their duties, in general.
Their duties, when the sheriff is a party.

ARTICLE I. CORONERS, AND THEIR DUTIES IN GENERAL.

Election or appointment of corners, their tenure of office, security and compensation.
Their general duties.
When duty of sheriff devolves on coroner, his powers and duties in respect thereto.
When coroner in New-York, unable to act, certain officers to perform his duties in respect to inquests.
Compensation of corners. 

§ 477. There is one coroner in the city and county of New-York, and four in every other county of this state, who are elected by the electors of the county, at a general election, once in every three years, and as often as there is a vacancy. The manner of their election and removal, of giving and renewing their official bonds, and of supplying a vacancy in their office, is prescribed by the constitution and by special statutes. Their compensation is prescribed by this code.

§ 478. A coroner has power, and it is his duty, 1. When he is informed that a person has been killed or dangerously wounded by another, or has suddenly died, under such circumstances as to afford a reasonable ground to suspect that his death has been occasioned by criminal means, or has committed suicide, to inquire by the intervention of a jury, into the cause of the death or wound, and to perform the other duties incidental thereto, in the manner prescribed by the code of criminal procedure: 2. To execute civil process in an action or special proceeding, when the sheriff is a party, as prescribed in sections 482 to 485, both inclusive: 3. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him, by the constitution and by other statutes.

§ 479. When an act is directed by statute to be performed by a sheriff, or process is issued to him, the duty, in case of the inability of the sheriff, from any cause, to perform it, devolves on the coroner, in the same manner, and with the same powers, duties and responsibilities, as if the process or order had required its performance by that officer.

§ 480. In the city and county of New-York, if the coroner be absent or unable to attend to the duties prescribed by the first subdivision of section 478, they may be performed by a police justice, but by no other officer, with the like authority and subject to the same obligations and penalties as are attached to the office of coroner.

§ 481. Each coroner is entitled to receive for his services in holding an inquest and performing any other duty incidental thereto, such compensation as maybe fixed by the board of supervisors of his county; and can receive for those services no other compensation or fees whatever. In the city and county of New-York, the compensation so fixed, must be an annual salary.

ARTICLE II. DUTIES OF CORONERS, WHEN THE SHERIFF IS A PARTY.

When sheriff is a party, corner to execute process.
When directed to coroners generally, may be executed by either. How executed.
Sheriff, when arrested, where to be confined; person arrested at the suit of sheriff, to be committed to county jail.
Powers an duties of coroner, in executing process.

§ 482. When the sheriff is a party to an action or special proceeding, the process therein, which it would otherwise be the duty of the sheriff to execute, must, except when otherwise provided by this code, be executed by the coroner of the county to whom it is delivered.

§ 483. When process is directed to the coroners of a county generally, it may be executed and returned by either of them, whose acts in respect thereto can in no degree prejudice the others. He must execute it in the same manner as the sheriff must have done, if it  might have been executed by him.

§ 484. If the sheriff, on being arrested by a coroner, on an order of arrest in a civil action, neglect to give bail or make a deposit of money instead thereof, or if he be arrested on an execution against his body, or on a commitment, he must be confined by the coroner, in a house within the jail liberties, other than the house of the sheriff or the county jail, in the same manner as the sheriff is required to confine a prisoner in the county jail. The house in which he is thus confined, thereupon becomes, for that purpose, the county jail. If a person be arrested by a coroner, on process in an action in which the sheriff is plaintifff, he must, when his commitment is required by this code, be committed to the county jail; but the coroner is not liable for his escape from the jail, after: he is committed thereto.

§ 485. A coroner who executes process in an action or special proceeding to which the sheriff is a party, as provided in the last three sections, is invested with the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the sheriff in the execution of the process, and in every matter incidental thereto.	

CHAPTER VII. COUNTY TREASURERS.

Election, removal, security and compensation of county treasurers.
Securities, in name of county treasurer, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
County treasurer invested with title thereto.
Money brought into court, to be paid to county treasurer, unless otherwise ordered. His accounts,
Order on county treasurer for money; to whom payable, and how drawn.
Order of court to be authenticated by signature of judge.
Power of court to direct investment, or deposit of money.
Statement of county treasurer to be presented to supreme court.
Statement to be presented to board of supervisors.
Duty of the supervisors thereon. 

§ 486. There is, in each of the counties of this state, except the city and county of New-York, a county treasurer. In the city and county of New-York, the chamberlain of that city is the county treasurer. The manner of their election and removal, of giving and renewing their official bonds, and of supplying a vacancy in their office, is prescribed by special statutes. Their compensation for the services required of them by this

CHAPTER, is prescribed by this code.

§ 487. When a bond, mortgage, or other security upon real property is ordered by the court to be taken, it must, unless otherwise directed by the court, he taken by the county treasurer of the county where the real property is situated, or by any other county treasurer designated by the court, by his name of office.

§ 488. All other securities, and all certificates and transfers of stocks ordered by the court, must, unless otherwise directed, be taken by a county treasurer designated by the court, by his name of office.

§ 489. The county treasurer, by whom a bond, mortgage or other security upon real estate, or any other security, certificate or transfer is taken, as provided in the last two sections, is thereupon vested in trust for the owners of the fund with full title thereto, and may sue for and collect the same, in his name of office.

§ 490. When money is brought or paid into court, (except a justice’s court,) in an action or special proceeding, the clerk must within five days thereafter, pay it to the county treasurer of the county, unless it be ordered by the court to be paid to another county treasurer, or to be invested or disposed of as provided in section 493. The county treasurer must thereupon make an entry, stating the amount thereof, the time when, and by or for whom, and in what action or proceeding it was so deposited, and the time from which the interest thereon, if any, is to commence.

§ 491. An order upon a county treasurer, for the payment of money deposited with him as provided in this chapter, must be payable to the order of the person entitled thereto or his attorney, and must specify in what particular action or proceeding, or on what account it is to be paid out, and the time when the order authorizing the payment was made.

§ 492. No money brought or paid into court, and deposited with the county treasurer, can be paid out by him, without the production of the order of the court for that purpose, authenticated by the signature of the judge by whom the court was held.

§ 493. The court into which money is brought, may direct it to be invested in a public stock, or to be placed at interest with a corporation, or on approved landed security, and from time to time, to be transferred or disposed of, as it thinks proper.

§ 494. At the first general term of the supreme court, held in each year, in the district embracing his county, the county treasurer must present a statement of all monies remaining in court, containing, 1. The title of the action or proceeding, in or an account of which the money was paid: 2. The party by whom it was paid, and generally for what purpose: 3. The time of payment, and the amount paid; and, 4. The investment or other disposition thereof. He must also present a similar statement to every other court in his county, at its first general term, or if there be none, at its first term, of all monies remaining in his hands and paid to him in actions or proceedings therein.

§ 495. The county treasurer must keep books of entry for money received, invested, or paid out, in legal proceedings, separate from those in which entries are made of county funds, and these books must be delivered: to his successor in office. He must also, at each annual meeting of the board of supervisors, report a statement of the bonds, mortgages and other securities in his hands, and of monies paid; to and deposited or invested by him as provided in this chapter or by special statutes.

§ 496. The board of supervisors must there upon examine into the situation of the securities or monies in the hands of the treasurer, and must ascertain and report to the supreme court, at its next general term in the district, whether the monies are safely and securely deposited or invested, and whether the securities are sufficient.

CHAPTER VIII. CRIERS.

Criers, how appointed.
Their compensation.
Their duties.

§ 497. A crier may be appointed by the board of supervisors of each county, for all or either of the courts in the county, except as provided in the next section.

§ 498. The crier of each of the following courts in the city and county of New-York, is appointed by the court, and holds his office during its pleasure: 1. The superior court; 2. The court of common pleas: 3. The court of sessions.

§ 499. The compensation of the crier must be fixed by the board of supervisors of the county in which he is appointed.

§ 500. It is the duty of the crier, 1. To attend the sessions of the courts for which he is appointed: 2. To call parties and witnesses, and all other persons bound to appear at the court: 3. To make proclamation of the opening or adjournment of the court, or of any other matter, under its direction.

TITLE V. OF PERSONS SPECIALLY INVESTED WITH MINISTERIAL POWERS RELATING TO THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

Attorneys and counsellors.
Persons specially authorized to execute the duties of the sheriff, in particular cases.
Receivers.
Guardians.
Committees of lunatics and habitual drunkards.

CHAPTER I. ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.

Attorneys and counsellors, in general.
Their admission.
Their duties.
Authority of an attorney, and its duration.
Change of attorney.
Lien of attorneys.
Summary power of the court, over attorneys.
The resignation of attorneys and counsellors, and the effect thereof.
Removal or suspension of attorneys and counsellors.

ARTICLE I. ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS, IN GENERAL.

Definition of an attorney.
Definition of a counsellor.
Attorney may also act as counsel.
Not a public officer.
Civil actions may be prosecuted or defended, in person or by attorney.

§ 501. An attorney is a person authorized to appear for and represent a party, in the written proceedings in an action or special proceeding, in any stage thereof.

§ 502. A counsellor is a person authorized to appear for and represent a party, in an action or special proceeding, in court only.

§ 503. A person authorized to act as attorney, may also act as counsel.

§ 504. An attorney or counsellor is not a public officer, but any person may act in that capacity, who is declared to be, or admitted as such, according to sections 506 to 510, both inclusive.

§ 505. A civil action may be prosecuted or defended, by a party in person or by attorney, except that a corporation appears by attorney in all cases; and where a party appears by attorney, the written proceedings must be in the name of the attorney, who is the sole representative of his client, as between him and the adverse party.

ARTICLE II. ADMISSION OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.

What attorneys and counsellors, now in office, may practice as such.
Who may be admitted to practice.
Application for admission, and proof thereon.
Examination.
Order entitling him to admission. 

§ 506. The following persons are entitled to practice as attorneys and counsellors, in all the courts of this state: 1. Those who were duly admitted as attorneys or counsellors of the supreme court, before the first Monday of July, 1847, and whose names are still on the rolls of attorneys or counsellors of that court: 2. Those in respect to whom an order has been entered by the supreme court, at anytime since the first Monday of July, 1847, stating that they have been examined, and found to possess the qualifications required by the constitution, to entitle them to practice as attorneys and counsellors in the courts of this state.

§ 507. Any male citizen, of the age of twenty-one years, of good moral character, and who possesses the requisite qualifications of learning and ability, is entitled to admission to practice in all the courts of this state.

§ 508. For the purpose of admission, he must apply to the supreme court in the district where he resides, on the first day of a general term, and must shew, 1. That he is a citizen of the United States, of the age of twenty-one years; which proof may be made by his own affidavit: and, 2. That he is a person of good moral character; which may be proved by certificate, or other evidence satisfactory to the court.

§ 509. The applicant must also be examined, in open court, as to his qualifications of learning and ability, by the judges, or under their direction, at the term at which application for admission is made.

§ 510. If, upon the examination, he be found duly qualified, the court must direct an order to be entered, to the effect that the applicant is a citizen of the United States, of the age of twenty-one years, of good moral character, and possesses the requisite qualifications of learning and ability, to practice as an attorney and counsellor in all the courts of this state; and upon the entry of the order, he is entitled to practice as such attorney and counsellor.

ARTICLE III. DUTIES OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.

Their general duties.
Punishment for deceit or collusion.
Not to permit other persons to use his name.

§ 511. It is the duty of an attorney and counsellor. 1. To support the constitution and laws of the United States, and of this state: 2. To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and judicial officers: 3. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings or defenses, only, as appear to him legal and just, except the defense of a person charged with a public offense: 4. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes confided to him, such means only as are consistent with truth, and never to seek to mislead the judges by any artifice or false statement of fact or law: 5. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every peril to himself, to preserve the secrets, of his clients: 6. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or witness, unless required by the justice of the cause with which he is charged: 7. Not to encourage either the commencement or the continuance of an action or proceeding, from any motive of passion or interest: and 8. Never to reject, for any consideration personal to himself, the cause of the defenseless or the oppressed.

§ 512. An attorney and counsellor who is guilty of deceit or collusion or consents thereto, with intent to deceive a court or judge, or a party to an action or judicial proceeding, is punishable for a misdemeanor, and shall also forfeit to the party injured, treble damages, recoverable in a civil action.

§ 513. If an attorney and counsellor knowingly permit a person not his general law partner, to sue out process, or to prosecute or defend an action or proceeding in his name, he and every person who so uses his name, shall severally forfeit to the party against whom the process was issued, or the action or proceeding prosecuted or defended, the sum of fifty dollars, recoverable in a civil action.

ARTICLE IV. AUTHORITY OF AN ATTORNEY AND ITS DURATION.

Authority of an attorney.
Proceedings, when he appears without authority.
Compelling him to produce authority.

§ 514. An attorney and counsellor has authority. 1. To bind his client, in any of the proceedings in an action or special proceeding, by his agreement filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes of the court, and not otherwise: 2. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or special proceeding, during the pendency thereof or within one year after judgment; and upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge the claim, or acknowledge satisfaction of the judgment. But this section does not prevent a party from employing a new attorney, to issue an execution upon a judgment, or to take the other proceedings, prescribed by this code, for its enforcement; and when he does so, the authority of the former attorney ceases.

§ 515. If it be alleged by a party for whom an attorney appears, that he does so without authority, the court may, at any stage of the proceedings, relieve the party for whom the attorney has assumed to appear, from the consequences of his acts. It may also summarily, upon motion, compel the attorney to repair the injury to either party, consequent upon his assumption of authority.

§ 516. The court, or a judge, may, on motion of either party, and on showing reasonable ground thereforee, require the attorney for the adverse party, or for any one of several adverse parties, to produce or prove the authority under which he appears, and until he does so, may stay all proceedings, by him on behalf of the party for whom he assumes to appear.

ARTICLE V. CHANGE OF ATTORNEY.

Attorney, how changed.
Notice of change.
When attorney dies, or ceases to act as such, notice thereof to be served on adverse party.

§ 517. The attorney in an action or special proceeding, may be changed at any time before judgment or final determination, as follows: 1. Upon his own consent filed with the clerk or entered upon the minutes: or, 2. Upon the order of the court or a judge thereof, on the application of the client, or for other sufficient cause.

§ 518. When an attorney is changed, as provided in the last section, written notice of the change and of the substitution of a new attorney, or of the appearance of the party in person, must be given to the adverse party. Until then, he is bound to recognise the former attorney.

§ 519. When an attorney dies, or is removed or suspended, or ceases to act as such, a party to an action for whom he was acting as attorney, must at least thirty days before any further proceeding against him, be required by the adverse party, by written notice, to appoint another attorney, or to appear in person.

ARTICLE VI. LIEN OF ATTORNEYS.

The lien of an attorney, and its effect.

§ 520. An attorney has a lien for his compensation, whether specially agreed upon, or implied, as provided in this code, 1. Upon the papers of his client, which have come into his possession in the course of his professional employment: 2. Upon money in his hands belonging to his client: 3. Upon money in the hands of the adverse party, in an action or proceeding in which the attorney was employed, from the time of giving notice of the lien to that party: 4. Upon a judgment, to the extent of the costs included therein, or if there be a special agreement, to the extent of the compensation specially agreed on, from the time of giving notice to the party against whom the judgment is recovered. This lien is, however, subordinate to the rights existing between the parties to the action or proceeding.

ARTICLE VII. SUMMARY POWER OF THE COURT OVER ATTORNEYS.

Proceedings to compel attorney to deliver over money or papers.
Court, how to proceed, if attorney claim lien. 

§ 521. When an attorney refuses to deliver over money or papers to a person from or for whom he has received them in the course of professional employment, whether in an action or not, he may be required by an order of the court in which an action, if any, was prosecuted, or if no action were prosecuted, then by an order of the supreme court, to do so within a specified time, or show cause why he should not be punished for a contempt.

§ 522. If however, the attorney claim a lien upon the money or papers, under the first two subdivisions of section 520, the court may, 1. Impose as a condition of making the order, that the client give security, in a form and amount to directed, to satisfy the lien, when determined in an action; or, 2. Summarily inquire into the facts on which the claim of a lien is founded, and determine the same: or, 3. Direct the trial of the controversy by a jury, or refer it, and upon the verdict, or report, determine the same, as in other cases.

ARTICLE VIII. RESIGNATION OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS, AND THE EFFECT THEREOF.

Resignation, how made, and its effect.
May be re-admitted.

§ 523. An attorney and counsellor may, at any time, file in the office of the clerk of the county in which he resides, a written resignation; and after the filing thereof, he is not entitled to the rights, nor is he subject to the disabilities or prohibitions incident to that relation; except that he is still subject to the power of the court, as provided in the last three sections, in respect to matters arising while he was an attorney and counsellor.

§ 524. An attorney and counsellor who shall have resigned as provided in the last section, may at any time thereafter be re-admitted to practice as such, in the same manner as if he had never been so admitted.

ARTICLE IX. REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.

By what court, and for what causes, an attorney and counsellor may be removed or suspended.
By whom proceedings may be instituted.
Accusation to be in writing and presented to court.
What to contain.
Order for accused to appear and answer.
Accused to appear, or if not, court to proceed.
May object to or deny accusation.
Manner of objecting or denying accusation.
If objection not sustained, must answer forthwith.
If accused plead guilty, or refuse to answer, court to pronounce judgment. On denial, court to try accusation.
On judgment of suspension or removal, case may be made by accused. Case, how settled.
The judgment roll.
Judgment of acquittal, final. Appeal to court of appeals, from judgment of suspension or removal. 
Powers of court of appeals upon the appeal.
In what cases, other courts may suspend, and their duty thereon. 

§ 525. An attorney and counsellor may be removed or suspended by the supreme court, at a general term in the district in which he resides, or keeps his office, for either of the following causes, arising after his admission to practice: 1. Upon his being convicted of a felony, or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; in either of which cases, the record of his conviction is conclusive evidence: 2. Upon its being shown to the satisfaction of the court, that he has knowingly signed a frivolous pleading, or has been guilty of any other deceit, or willful misconduct in his profession: 3. For a willful disobedience or violation of the order of a court, requiring him to do or forbear an act connected with, or in the course of his profession: 4. For a willful violation of any of the provisions of section 511.

§ 526. The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney and counsellor, as provided in the last section, must be taken by the court, of its own motion, for matters within its knowledge, or may be taken upon the information of another.

§ 527. If the proceeding be upon the information of another, the accusation must be in writing, and must be presented to the court.

§ 528. The accusation must state the matters charged, and must be verified by the oath of the person making it, or of some other person, to the effect that the charges therein contained are true.

§ 529. After receiving the accusation, the court must if, in its opinion, the case require it, make an order requiring the accused to appear and answer the accusation, at a specified time in the same or a subsequent term: and must cause a copy of the order and of the accusation to be served upon the accused, within a prescribed time, before the day appointed in the order.

§ 530. The accused must appear at the time appointed in the order, and answer the accusation, unless, for sufficient cause, the court assign another day for that purpose. If he do not appear, the court may proceed and determine the accusation in his absence.

§ 531. The accused may answer the accusation, either by objecting to its sufficiency, or by denying its truth.

§ 532. If he object to the sufficiency of the accusation, the objection must be in writing, but need not be in any specific form; it being sufficient, if it present intelligibly the grounds of the objection. If he deny the truth of the accusation, the denial may be oral and without oath, and must be entered upon the minutes.

§ 533. If an objection to the sufficiency of the accusation be not sustained, the accused must answer it forthwith.

§ 534. If the accused plead guilty, or refuse to answer the accusation, the court must proceed to judgment of removal or suspension. If he deny the matters charged, the court must immediately, or at such time as it may appoint, proceed to try the accusation.

§ 535. In case of a judgment of suspension or removal, the accused may, within ten days after it is pronounced, make a case, setting forth the evidence and other proceedings in the matter upon the hearing thereof; which must be settled by the court in the same manner as a case in a civil action. When settled, it must be filed with the clerk of the court by which the judgment was given.

§ 536. The following papers must be annexed together and filed by the clerk, within two days after the filing of the case, or within such further time as the court or a judge thereof may prescribe; 1. The accusation: 2. The objections or answer thereto: 3. The case mentioned in the last section: 4. A copy of the entries upon the minutes of the court, relating to the accusation, and the proceedings thereon. including the order of suspension or removal.

§ 537. A judgment of acquital is final, and without appeal. But from a judgment of suspension or removal, the accused may appeal to the court of appeals, in the same manner as from a judgment of the supreme court in a criminal action.

§ 538. The powers and jurisdiction of the court of appeals, upon the appeal, and its proceedings and judgment thereon, are the same as upon an appeal from a judgment of the supreme court in a criminal action, except that the court may reverse or modify the judgment, as well upon the facts appearing in the judgment roll, as upon the law.

§ 539. Any court, except a justice’s court or a court of conciliation, may suspend an attorney and counsellor from practising therein, for any of the causes mentioned in section 525, for a period not beyond the adjournment of the next general term of the supreme court in the district. The order of suspension must state the cause thereof and must be entered upon the minutes, and a certified copy thereof transmitted by the court by which it is made, to the next general term of the supreme court in the district, which may proceed thereon against the person suspended, in the manner provided in this article.

CHAPTER II. PERSONS SPECIALLY AUTHORIZED TO EXECUTE THE DUTIES OF THE SHERIFF IN PARTICULAR CASES.

Elisors, when and how appointed.
How to execute process of arrest.
Where to confine sheriff or coroner on arrest.
Where to confine other persons.
General powers and duties of elisors.

§ 540. Process in an action or special proceeding may be executed by two persons residing in the county, designated by the court, and denominated elisors, in either of the following cases: 1. When the sheriff and coroner are parties: 2. When either of those officers is a party, and the process is against one of them, for a disobedience of an order or process against the other. They may be required by the court to give security, in such manner as it may direct.

§ 541. When process of arrest is delivered to elisors, they must execute it in the same manner as the sheriff must have done, if it might have been executed by him.

§ 542. If the sheriff or coroner, on being arrested by a person specially appointed to execute the office of sheriff, or by elisors, on an order of arrest in a civil action, neglect to give bail or make a deposit of money instead thereof, or if he be arrested on execution against his body, or on attachment, he must be confined in a house within the jail liberties, other than the house of the sheriff or the county jail, in the same manner as the sheriff is required to confine a prisoner in the county jail. The house in which he is thus confined, thereupon becomes, for that purpose, the county jail.

§ 543. If the coroner be arrested on process in an action in which the sheriff is plaintifff, or if another person be so arrested in an action in which both the coroner and sheriff are plaintifffs, he must be committed to the county jail, when his commitment is required by this code: but the persons making the arrest are not liable for his escape from the jail, after he is committed thereto.

§ 544. Elisors appointed to execute process in the cases mentioned in section 540, are invested with the powers, duties and responsibilities of the sheriff, in the execution of the process and in every matter incidental thereto.

CHAPTER III. RECEIVERS.

Definition of a receiver.
In what cases he may be appointed.
His oath and security. 

§ 545. A receiver is a person appointed by a court or judicial officer, to take charge of property during the pendency of a civil action, or a special proceeding of a civil nature, or upon a judgment or order therein, and to dispose of it as the court or officer may direct.

§ 546. A receiver may be appointed, 1. In a civil action, before judgment, provisionally, on the application of either party, when his right to property, the subject of the action, and which is in the possession of an adverse party, is probable, and the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of being lost or materially injured or impaired: 2. In a civil action, after judgment, to carry the judgment into effect: 3. In a civil action after judgment, to dispose of the property, according to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the judgment: 4. In the cases provided in this code, and by special statutes, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights: 5. In the cases provided in this code, when a debtor has been declared insolvent.

§ 547. A receiver, before entering upon his duties, must be sworn—faithfully to discharge his trust, to the best of his ability, and must also file with the clerk of the court, an undertaking in writing, of one or more sufficient sureties, in a specified sum, fixed by the court or officer, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver, and will obey the orders of the court or officer in respect thereto. The sureties must justify in the same manner as bail upon an arrest.

CHAPTER IV. GUARDIANS.

Definition of a guardian.
By whom and how appointed.
Not to receive property of infant, without security. 
Manner of appointment, security, powers and duties of guardian. 

§ 548. A guardian is a person appointed to take the charge of the person or estate of an infant, or both, or to appear for him in the prosecution or defense of a civil action.

§ 549. A guardian may be appointed, 1. By the father, whether of full age or not, of a child likely to be born, or of a living child under the age of twenty-one years and unmarried, or by a surrogate’s court, to take the custody and tuition of the infant, to maintain actions for wrongfully taking or detaining him, and to manage his personal property, and the profits of his real property: 2. By the court in which a civil action by or against an infant is brought, or by a judge thereof, and in the supreme court by a county judge, to appear for the infant in the prosecution or defense of the action, as provided in this code.

§ 550. No guardian appointed for an infant, can be permitted to receive property of the infant, until he has given sufficient security, approved by a judge of the court, or in the supreme court, by a county judge, to account for and apply the same, under the direction of the court.

§ 551. The manner of the appointment of a guardian, his powers and duties, and the incidents of his trust, are prescribed by other provisions of this code.

CHAPTER V. COMMITTEES OF LUNATICS AND HABITUAL DRUNKARDS.

Definition of a committee.
Manner of appointment, security, powers and duties of committee. 

§ 552. A committee is a person appointed by a court, to take the care and custody of an insane person, or of one who is incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence of habitual drunkenness, and of his property.

§ 553. The manner of the appointment of a committee, his security, powers and duties, and the incidents of his trust, are prescribed by other provisions of this code.

PART II. OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

Of their form.
Of the time of commencing them.
Of the parties.
Of the place of trial.
Of the manner of commencing them.
Of the pleadings.
Of the provisional remedies.
Of the trial and judgment.
Of the execution of the judgment.
Of the costs.
Of actions in particular cases.
Of appeals.
Of the miscellaneous proceedings and general provisions.
Provisions respecting suits heretofore commenced.

TITLE I. OF THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

Distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and forms of such actions and suits, abolished.
Parties to an action, how designated.
Feigned issues, abolished and order for trial substituted.

§ 554. The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore existing, are abolished; and, there shall be in this state, hereafter, but one form of action, for the enforcement or protection of private rights and the redress or prevention of private wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil action.

§ 555. In such action, the party complaining is known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

§ 556. There can be no feigned action or issue, but a question of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may be tried by a jury, upon an order for the trial, stating, distinctly and plainly, the question of fact to be tried, and such order is the only authority necessary for a trial.

TITLE II. OF THE TIME OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

Actions in general. 
Actions for the recovery of real property.
Actions, other than for the recovery of real property.
General provisions.

CHAPTER I. THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS IN GENERAL.

§ 557. Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods prescribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued, except where in special cases a different limitation is prescribed by statute.

CHAPTER II. THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.

When the people will not sue.
When action cannot be brought by grantee from the state.
When actions by the people or their grantees to be brought within twenty years.
Seisin within twenty years, when necessary in action for real property.
Seisin within twenty years, when necessary in action or defense founded on title to or rents of real property.
Action must be commenced within one year after entry, or within twenty years after right of entry.
Possession when resumed. Occupation deemed under legal title, unless adverse.
Occupation under written instrument or judgment, when deemed adverse.
What constitutes adverse possession, under written instrument or judgment.
Premises actually occupied, under claim of title, deemed to be held adversely.
What constituted adverse possession under claim of title not written.
Relation of landlord and tenant, as affecting adverse possession.
Right of possession not affected by descent cast.
Certain disabilities excluded from time to commence actions. 

§ 558. The people of this state will not sue any person for or in respect to any real property, or the issues or profits thereof; by reason of the right or title of the people to the same, unless, 1. Such right or title shall have accrued within forty years before any action, or other proceeding, for the same is commenced; or unless, 2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall have received the rents and profits of such real property, or at some part thereof, within the space of forty years.

§ 559. No action can be brought for, or in respect to real property, by any person claiming under letters patent, or grants from the people of this state, unless the same might have been commenced by the people, as herein specified, in case such patent had not been issued or grant made.

§ 560. When letters patent, or grants of real property, issued or made by the people of this state, are declared void by the determination of a competent court, rendered upon an allegation of a fraudulent suggestion, concealment, forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance of a material fact, or wrongful detaining, or defective title, in such case, an action for the recovery of the property, so conveyed, may be brought either by the people of this state, or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of the same property, his heirs or assigns, within twenty years after such determination; but not after that period.

§ 561. No action for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery of the possession thereof, can be maintained, unless it appear that the plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor, was seised or possessed of the property in question, within twenty years before the commencement of the action.

§ 562. No cause of action or defense to an action arising out of the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, can be effectual, unless it appear that the person prosecuting the action, or making the defense, or under whose title the action is prosecuted or the defense is made, or the ancestor, predecessor, or grantor of such person, was seised or possessed of the property in question, within twenty years before the commission of the act in respect to which such action is prosecuted or defense made.

§ 563. No entry upon real estate is deemed sufficient or valid as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon within one year after the making of the entry, and within twenty years from the time when the right to make it descended or accrued.

§ 564. In every action for the recovery of real property, or the possession thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the property is presumed to have been possessed thereof within the time required by law; and the occupation of the property by any other person, is deemed to have been under and in subordination to the legal title, unless it appear that the property has been held and possessed adversely to such legal title, for twenty years before the commencement of the action.

§ 565. When it appears that the occupant, or those under whom he claims, entered into the possession of land under claim of title, exclusive of other right, making such claim upon a written instrument, as being a conveyance of the land in question, or upon the judgment of a competent court; and that there has been a continued occupation and possession of the land included in such instrument, or judgment, or of some part of the land, under such claim, for twenty years, the land so included is deemed to have been held adversely, except that when it consists of a tract divided into lots, the possession of one lot is not deemed a possession of any other lot of the same tract.

§ 566. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by any person claiming a title founded upon a written instrument or a judgment, land is deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the following cases: 1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved: 2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure: 3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the supply of fuel or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry, or the ordinary use of the occupant: 4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved, the portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared, or not inclosed according to the custom of the adjoining country, is deemed to have been occupied for the same length of time as the part improved.

§ 567. Where it appears that there has been an actua1 continued occupation of land, under a claim of title, exclusive of any other right, but not founded upon a written instrument, or judgment, the land so actually occupied and no other, is deemed to have been held adversely.

§ 568. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by a person claiming title not founded upon a written instrument, or a judgment, land is deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the following cases only, viz: 1. Where it has been protected by a permanent enclosure: 2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.

§ 569. When the relation of landlord and tenant has existed between any person, the possession of the tenant is deemed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration of twenty years from the termination of the tenancy; or where there has been no written lease, until the expiration of twenty years from the time of the last payment of rent; notwithstanding that such tenant may have acquired another title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord. But such presumption can not be made after the periods herein limited.

§ 570. The right of a person to the possession of real property, is not impaired or affected by a descent cast, in consequence of the death of a person in possession of such property.

§ 571. If a person entitled to commence an action for the recovery of real property, or to make an entry or defense founded on the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, be at the time such title first descends or accrues, either, 1. Within the age of twenty-one years, or 2. Insane, or 3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge; or in execution upon conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for life, or 4. A married woman; The time, during which such disability continues, is not deemed any portion of the time in this chapter limited for the commencement of such action, or the making of such entry or defense; except that the disabilities cannot extent the period of limitation, so as to allow such action to be commenced, or entry or defense made, more than thirty years after the right accrued.

CHAPTER III. THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.

Periods of limitation prescribed.
Within twenty years.
Within six years.
Within two years.
Within one year.
When cause of action accrued, in an action upon a current account.
Actions for penalties, &c., by any person who will sue, when to be brought.
Actions for relief, not before provided for.
Actions by the people, subject to the same limitation. 

§ 572. The periods prescribed in section 557, for the commencement of actions other than for the recovery of real property, are as follows:

§ 573. Within twenty years: 1. An action upon a judgment or decree of a court of the United States, or of any state or territory within the United States: 2. An action upon a sealed instrument.

§ 574. Within six years: 1. An action upon a contract, or other obligation, express or implied; excepting those mentioned in the last section: 2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a penalty or forfeiture: 3. An action for trespass upon real property: 4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring personal property, including actions for the specific recovery, thereof: 5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to the person or rights of another, not arising on obligation, and not hereinafter enumerated: 6. An action for relief; on the ground of fraud; the cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued, until the discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud.

§ 575. Within three years: 1. An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable upon a liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity, and in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an official duty; including the failure to pay money collected upon an execution; but this section does not apply to an action for an escape: 2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and the people of this state, except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different limitation.

§ 576. Within two years: 1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false imprisonment: 2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the people of this state.

§ 577. Within one year: 1. An action against a sheriff or other officer, for the escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.

§ 578. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual, open and current account, where there have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action is deemed to have accrued, from the time of the last item proved in the account, claimed, or proved to be chargeable, on the adverse side.

§ 579. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, given in whole or in part to the person who prosecutes for the same, must be commenced within one year after the commission of the offense; and if the action be not commenced within the year by a private party, it may be commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf of the people of this state, by the attorney-general or the district attorney of the county where the offense was committed.

§ 580. An action for relief; not hereinbefore provided for, must be commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall have accrued.

§ 581. The limitations prescribed in this chapter apply to actions brought in the name of the people of this state, or for their benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties.

CHAPTER IV. GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.

When action deemed to have been commenced.
Issuing summons in certain cases to be deemed a commencement.
Exception, where defendant is out of the state.
Exception, as to persons under disabilities.
Provision where person entitled, dies before the limitation expires.
In suits by aliens, time of war to be deducted.
Provision, where judgment has been reversed.
Time of stay of action by injunction or statutory prohibition to be deducted.
Disability must exist when right of action accrued.
Where two or more disabilities, limitation does not attach, till all removed.
This title not applicable to bills, &c., of corporations, or to bank notes.
Nor to actions against directors or stockholders of monied corporations or banking associations. Limitations in such cases prescribed.
Acknowledgment, or new promise must be in writing.
Existing causes of action not affected.

§ 582. An action is commenced as to each defendant when the summons is served on him, or on a co-defendant, who is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest, with him.

§ 583. An attempt to commence an action, is deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this title, when the summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall be that it shall be actually served, to the sheriff or other officer of the county, in which the defendants, or one of them, usually or last resided; or if a corporation be defendant, to the sheriff, or other officer, of the county, in which such corporation was established by law, or where its general business was transacted, or where it kept an office for the transaction of business. But such an attempt must be followed by the first publication of the summons, or the service thereof within sixty days.

§ 584. If; when the cause of action accrue against a person, he be out of the state, the action may be commenced within the term herein limited, after his return to the state; and if, after the cause of action accrues, he depart from the state, the time of his absence is not part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.

§ 585. If a person, entitled to bring an action mentioned in the last chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other officer for an escape, be at the time the cause of action accrued, either: 1. Within the age of twenty-one years: or 2. Insane; or 3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the sentence of a criminal court, for a term less than his natural life; or 4. A married woman: The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the commencement of the action, except that the period within which the action must be brought, cannot be extended more than five years, by any such disability, except infancy, nor can it be so extended in any case longer than one year after the disability ceases.

§ 586. If a person, entitled-to bring an action, die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his representatives, after the expiration of that time, and within one year from his death. If a person, against whom an action may be brought, die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced against his representatives after the expiration of that time, and within one year after the issuing of letters testamentary, or of administration.

§ 587. When a person is an alien subject, or citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of the war is not part of the period limited for the commencement of the action.

§ 588. If an action be commenced within the time prescribed thereforee, and a judgment therein for the plaintifff be reversed on appeal, the plaintifff, or if he die, and the cause of action survive, his representatives may commence a new action, within one year after the reversal.

§ 589. When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunction, or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition, is not part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.

§ 590. No person can avail himself of a disability, unless it existed when his right of action accrued.

§ 591. When two or more disabilities co-exist, at the time the right of action accrues, the limitation does not attach, until they are all removed.

§ 592. This title does not affect actions to enforce the payment of bills, notes, or other evidences of debt, issued by monied corporations, or issued or put in circulation as money.

§ 593. Actions against directors or stockholders of a monied corporation, or to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law, must be brought within six years after the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability was created.

§ 594. No acknowledgment or promise is sufficient evidence of a new or continuing contract, by which to take the case out of the operation of this title, unless the same is contained in some writing signed by the party to be charged thereby; but this section does not alter the effect of any payment of principal or interest.

§ 595. This title does not extend to actions already commenced, nor does any part of it, except section 583, extend to cases where the right of action has already accrued: but the statutes now in force are applicable to such cases, according to the subject of the action, and without regard to the form.

TITLE III. OF THE PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.

Who may be parties.
Action to be in the name of the real party in interest.
Assignment of a thing in action not to prejudice a defense.
Executor or trustee may sue without the persons beneficially interested.
When married woman is a party, her husband to be joined, except.
Wife may defend if husband refuses.
Infant to appear by guardian.
Guardian, how appointed.
Unmarried female may sue for her own seduction.
Father may sue for seduction of daughter.
Father may sue for death of child.
Wife may sue or defend if deserted.
Who may be joined as plaintifffs.
Who may be made defendants.
Parties united in interest, when to be joined. When one or more may sue or defend for the whole.
Plaintiff may sue in one action the different parties to commercial paper.
Action when not to abate by death, marriage, or other disability. Proceedings in such case.
Court when to decide controversy, or to order other parties to be brought in.
Another person may be substituted for defendant.
Associates may be sued by name of association. 

§ 596. The people of this state, in their political or corporate capacity, the United States of America, every sister state of the United States, every organized territory of the United States, every foreign state or sovereign prince in amity with the United States, all other corporations, foreign or domestic, and all natural persons, not alien enemies, or adjudged civilly dead, may be parties, plaintifffs, in the courts of this state; every state, sovereign, and body politic mentioned in this section, and every other corporation and natural person may be a party, defendant.

§ 597. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section 599.

§ 598. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by the assignee is without prejudice to any set-off or other defense existing at the time of, or before notice of, the assignment; but this section does not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange transferred in good faith and upon good considerations, before due.

§ 599. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining with him the persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made, for the benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section.

§ 600. When a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her, except that, 1. When the action concerns her separate property, she may sue alone: 2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone.

§ 601. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may defend for her own right, and if the husband neglect to defend, she may defend for his right also.

§ 602. When an infant is a party, he must appear by guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which the action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof.

§ 603. The guardian must be appointed as follows: 1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, or if under that age, upon the application of some other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant: 2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within twenty days after the service of the summons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon the application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant.

§ 604. An unmarried female may prosecute, as plaintifff, an action for her own seduction, and may recover therein such damages as shall be assessed in her favor.

§ 605. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintifff for the seduction of the daughter, and the guardian for the seduction of the ward, though the daughter or ward be not living with, or in the service of, the plaintifff, at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and there be no loss of service.

§ 606. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family, the mother, may maintain an action for the injury or death of a child, and a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.

§ 607. When a husband and father has deserted his family, the wife and mother may prosecute or defend, in his name, any action which he might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the same powers and rights therein as he might have had.

§ 608. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except when otherwise provided in this title.

§ 609. Any person may be made a defendant, who has or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the question involved therein.

§ 610. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but if the consent of any one, who should have been joined as plaintifff, cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint: and when the question is one of a common or general interest of many persons, or when the parties are numerous and it is impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.

§ 611. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may, all or any of them, be included in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

§ 612. An action does not abate by the death, marriage or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the death, marriage, or other disability of a party, the court on motion, may allow the action to be continued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the original party; or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

§ 613. The court may determine any controversy between parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the court must order them to be brought in. And when, in an action for the recovery of real or personal property a person, not a party to the action, but having an interest in the subject thereof, makes application to the court to be made a party, it may order him to be brought in by the proper amendment.

§ 614. A defendant, against whom an action is pending, upon a contract, or for specific, real, or personal property, may, at any time before answer, upon affidavit, that a person, not a party to the action, and without collusion with him, makes against him a demand for the same debt or property, apply to the court for an order to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from liability to either party, on his depositing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering the property or its value to such person as the court may direct. And the court, after notice to the plaintifff and such person, may, in its discretion, make the order; and thereupon the substituted defendant shall stand in the place of the original defendant, and the latter be discharged from liability to either party.

§ 615. When two or more persons, associated in any business, transact such business under a common name, whether it comprise the names of such persons or not, the associates may be sued by such common name, the summons in such case being served on one or more of the associates; and the judgment in the action shall bind the joint property of all the associates in the same manner as if all had been named defendants, and had been sued upon their joint liability. Any one of the associates may also be sued for the obligation of all.

TITLE IV. OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

Certain actions to be tried where the subject or some party thereof is situated.
Other actions, where the cause or some part thereof arose.
Other actions, according to the residence of the parties.
Action may be tried in any county unless defendant demand trial in proper county.
Place of trial may be changed in certain cases. 

§ 616. Actions for the following causes, must be tried in the county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place of trial, as provided in section 620: 1. For the recovery of real property or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination, in any form, of such right or interest, and for injuries to real property: 2. For the partition of real property: 3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property: 4. For the recovery of personal property, distrained, for any cause.

§ 617. Actions for the following causes, must be tried in the county where the cause, or some part thereof arose, subject to the like power of the court, to change the place of trial, as, 1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute; except, that when it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more counties, the action may be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river or stream, and opposite to the place where the offense was committed : 2. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a person, who by his command or in his aid, does any thing touching the duties of such officer.

§ 618. In all other cases, the action must be tried in the county in which the parties or some of them reside at the commencement of the action; or if none of the parties reside in the state, the same may be tried in any county which the plaintifff may designate in his complaint; subject, however to the power of the court to change the place of trial, as provided in section 620.

§ 619. If the county designated for that purpose in the complaint, be not the proper county, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant before the time for answering expire, demand in writing that the trial be had in the proper county, and the place of trial he thereupon changed by consent of parties, or by the order of the court, as provided in the next section.

§ 620. The court may change the place of trial on the application of all the defendants, who answer in the following cases: 1. When the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is not the proper county: 2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had therein: 3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change.

TITLE V. OF THE MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

Actions, how commenced.
Summons, requisites of.
Notice to be inserted in certain actions.
Complaint need not be served with summons in certain cases.
Defendant unreasonably defending, when to pay costs.
Notice of pendency of action affecting title to real property.
Summons, by whom served.
Summons, how served and returned.
Publication when defendant cannot be found.
Manner of publication.
Defendant may be afterwards let in to defend.
Proceedings when there are several defendants, and part only served.
Service of summons, how proved.
When jurisdiction of action required.

§ 621. Civil actions in the courts of this state must be commenced by the service of a summons.

§ 622. The summons must be subscribed by the plaintifff, or his attorney, and directed to the defendant, requiring him to answer the complaint, and serve a copy of his answer on the person whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the state, therein specified, in which there is a post office, within twenty days after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service.

§ 623. The plaintifff must also insert in the summons a notice, in substance as follows: 1. In an action, arising on obligation for the recovery of money only, that he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint: 2. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded therein.

§ 624. A copy of the complaint must be served with the summons, unless the complaint itself be already on the files of the court. In the latter case, the service of a copy with the summons may be omitted, but then the summons must state where the complaint is filed; and if the defendant, within ten days thereafter, in person or by attorney, demand in writing, a copy of the complaint, specifying a place within the state where it may be served, a copy thereof must be served accordingly, and after such service the defendant has twenty days to answer; but only one copy need be served on the same attorney.

§ 625. In the case of a defendant against whom no personal claim is made, the plaintifff may deliver to him with the summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintifff or his attorney, setting forth the general object of the action, a brief description of the property, affected by it, if it effect specific real or personal property, and that no personal claim is made against such defendant. If a defendant, on whom such notice is served, unreasonably defend the action he must pay costs to the plaintifff.

§ 626. In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintifff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time afterwards, may file with the clerk of each county in which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of such action, containing the names of the parties, the object of the action, and a description of the property in that county affected thereby, If the action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage, such notice must be filed twenty days before judgment, and must contain the date of the mortgage, the names of the parties thereto, and the time and place of recording the same. From the time of filing, and for two years thereafter only, the pendency of the action is constructive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property affected thereby, but the notice may be refiled from time to time with the same effect.

§ 627. The summons may be served by the sheriff of the county where the defendant is found, or by any other person, not a party to the action, the service must be made, and the summons returned, with proof of the service, to the person whose name is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable diligence. The person subscribing the summons, may, at his option, by an endorsement on the summons, fix a time for the service thereof, and the service must then be made accordingly.

§ 628. The summons must be served by delivering a copy thereof, as follows: 1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof: 2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian, or if there be none within the state, then to any person having the care and control of such minor, or with whom he resides or in whose service he is employed: 3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence of habitual drunkenness, and for whom a committee has been appointed, to such committee, and to the defendant personally: 4. In all other cases to the defendant personally.

§ 629. Where the person on whom the service of the summons is to he made, cannot, after due diligence, be found within the state, and that fact appears by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court or a judge thereof, and it in like manner appears that a cause of action exists against the defendant, in respect to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a necessary or proper party to an action, relating to real property in this state, such court or judge may grant an order that the service be made, by the publication of a summons, in either of the following cases: 1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation: 2. Where the defendant being a resident of this state, has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his. creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein, with the like intent. 3. Where he is not a resident of this state, but has property therein, and the action arises on obligation, and the court has jurisdiction oi the subject of the action: 4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal property in this state, and the defendant has, or claims, a lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists, wholly or partly, in excluding the defendant from any interest therein: 5. Where the action arises upon a mortgage on property in this state, and the defendant is personally chargeable with the debt for which the mortgage is security: 6. Where the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed by law.

§ 630. The order must direct the publication to be made in two newspapers to be designated, as most likely to give notice to the person to be served, and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week, for six weeks. In case of publication, the court or judge must also direct a copy of the summons and complaint, to be forthwith deposited in the post office, directed to the person to be served, at his place of residence, unless it appear that such residence is neither known to the party making the application, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascertained by him. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint, out of the state, is equivalent to publication, and deposit in the post office. In either case the service of the summons is to be deemed complete, at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication.

§ 631. If the summons be not personally served on a defendant, nor received by him through the post office, in the cases provided for in the last two sections, he or his representatives, on application and sufficient cause shown, at any time before judgment, must be allowed to defend the action; and, except in an action for divorce, the defendant or his representatives, may in like manner, be allowed to defend after judgment, or at any time within one year after notice thereof, and within seven years after its rendition, on such terms as may be just; and if the defense be successful, and the judgment, or any part thereof, have been collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court directs.

§ 632. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or more but not on all of them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows: 1. If the action be against the defendants jointly indebted upon an obligation, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the court otherwise direct, and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against the joint property of all, and the separate property of the defendants served, and, if they are subject to arrest, against their persons: or, 2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they were the only defendants.

§ 633. Proof of the service of the summons, and of the complaint or notice, if any, accompanying the same must be as follows : 1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof; or 2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or 3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same; and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post-office, if the same shall have been deposited: or 4. The written admission of the defendant: In case of service, otherwise than by publication, the certificate, affidavit or admission must state the time and place of the service.

§ 634. From the time of the service of the summons in a civil action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him.

TITLE VI. OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

The pleadings in general.
The complaint.
The demurrer.
The answer.
The reply.
General rules of pleading.
Mistakes in pleading and amendments.

CHAPTER I. THE PLEADINGS IN GENERAL.

Definition of pleadings.
Former system of pleading abolished.
What pleadings are allowed.

§ 635. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties of their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the court.

§ 636. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing, are abolished; and hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined, are those prescribed in this code.

§ 637. The only pleadings allowed on the part of the plaintifff are 1. The complaint, 2. The reply; and on the part of the defendant, 1. The demurrer, or 2. The answer.

CHAPTER II. THE COMPLAINT.

First pleading to be complaint.
Complaint, what to contain.

§ 638. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff, is the complaint.

§ 639. The complaint must contain: 1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in which the action is brought, the name of the county in which the plaintifff desires the trial to be had, and the names of the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant: 2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended: 3. A demand of the relief, to which the plaintifff supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof must be stated.

CHAPTER III. THE DEMURRER.

When the defendant may demur.
Demurrer must specify grounds of objection to complaint.
How to proceed if complaint be amended.
Objection not appearing on complaint may be taken by answer.
Objection, when deemed waived.

§ 640. The defendant may demur to the complaint, within twenty days after the service of a copy thereof; when it appears upon the face thereof, either, 1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action: or, 2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue: or, 3. That there is another action pending between the same parties, for the same cause: or, 4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant: or, 5. That several causes of action have been improperly united: or, 6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

§ 641. The demurrer must distinctly specify the grounds upon which any of the objections to the complaint are taken. Unless it do so, it may be disregarded. It may be taken to the whole complaint, or to any of the causes of action alleged therein.

§ 642. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must be served on the defendant, who must answer it within twenty days, or the plaintifff, upon filing with the clerk proof of the service, and of the defendant’s omission may proceed to obtain judgment, as in other cases of failure to answer, but where an application to the court for judgment is necessary, eight days’ notice thereof must be given to the defendant.

§ 643. When any of the matters enumerated in section 640 do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer.

§ 644. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant must be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

CHAPTER IV. THE ANSWER.

Answer, what to contain.
When counterclaim may be set up.
Counterclaim precludes another action for the same cause.
Counterclaim not barred by death or assignment.
Answer may contain several grounds of defense.
Amendment allowed after trial, on complaint and answer.

§ 645. The answer of the defendant must contain: 1. A denial of each allegation of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form a belief: 2. A statement of any new matter, constituting a defense or counterclaim, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended.

§ 646. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section, must be one existing in favor of a defendant, and against plaintifff, between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of one of the following causes of action: 1. A cause of action, arising out of the contract or transaction set forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintifff’s claim, or connected with the subject of the action: 2. In an action arising on obligation, any other cause of action arising also on obligation, and existing at the commencement of the action.

§ 647. If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaim in the cases mentioned in the first subdivision of the last section, he cannot afterwards maintain an action against the plaintifff thereforee.

§ 648. When cross demands have existed between persons, under such circumstances, that if one had brought an action against the other, a counterclaim could have been set up, neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof, by the assignment or death of the other, but the two demands must be deemed compensated, so far as they equal each other.

§ 649. The defendant may set forth, by answer, as many defenses and counterclaims as he may have. They must each be separately stated, and the several defenses must refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished. The defendant may also answer one or more of the several causes of action alleged in the complaint and demur to the residue.

§ 650. If the answer set up new matter, which is not replied to as provided in the next section, and the issue be tried on complaint and answer alone, and judgment be given thereon for the plaintifff, the court may permit the defendant to withdraw or amend the answer, upon such terms as may be just.

CHAPTER V. THE REPLY.

When the answer contains a counterclaim, a reply may be put in, and what it may contain.

§ 651. When the answer contains new matter constituting a counterclaim, the plaintifff may within twenty days, reply to such new matter, denying each allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief; and he may allege, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended, any new matter, not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to the counterclaim.

CHAPTER VI. GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING.

Verification of pleadings.
How to state an account in pleading.
Pleadings to be liberally construed.
Irrelevant or redundant matter to be stricken out.
Description of real property in a pleading.
Judgments how to be pleaded.
Conditions precedent, how to be pleaded.
Private statutes how to be pleaded.
Libel and slander, how stated in complaint.
Answer in such cases.
In actions to recover property distrained for damage, answer need not set forth title.
What causes of action may be joined in the same action.
Allegations not denied; when to be deemed true.
A material allegation defined.

§ 652. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party, or his attorney, and the complaint, answer and reply, must be verified by the party, his agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true. The verification must be made, by the affidavit of the party, or, if there be several parties united in interest and pleading together, by one at least of such parties, if such party be within the state and capable of making the affidavit; otherwise the affidavit may be made by the agent or attorney of the party. The affidavit may also be made by the agent or attorney, if the action or defense be founded upon a written instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument be in the possession of the agent or attorney, or if all the material allegations of the pleading be within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the affidavit is made by the agent or attorney, it must set forth the reason of his making it. The verification may be omitted, when an admission of the truth of the complaint might subject the party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading, verified as herein required, can be used in a criminal prosecution against the party, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading.

§ 653. It is not necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, where they exceed twenty in number, but he must deliver to the adverse party, within ten days, after a demand thereof in writing, a copy of the account verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or a judge thereof, or a county judge, may order a further account, when the one delivered is defective.

§ 654. In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.

§ 655. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain, that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain, by amendment.

§ 656. In an action for the recovery of real property, it must be described in the complaint with such convenient certainty, as to enable an officer upon execution to identify it.

§ 657. In pleading a judgment, or other determination, of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it is not necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction. but such judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must establish on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.

§ 658. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it is not necessary to state the facts, showing such performance; but it may be stated generally, that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must establish on the trial the facts showing such performance.

§ 659. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it is sufficient to refer to such statute, by its title and the day of its passage, and the court must thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

§ 660. In an action for libel or slander, it is not necessary to state in the complaint, any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff, of the defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose; but it is sufficient to state generally, that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff, and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintifff must establish, on the trial, that it was so published or spoken.

§ 661. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount of, damages; and whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.

§ 662. In an action to recover the possession of property distrained for doing damage, an answer that the defendant, or person by whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property upon which the distress was made, and that the property distrained was at the time doing damage thereon, is sufficient without setting forth the title to such real property.

§ 663. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same complaint, where they all arise out of 1. Contract, express or implied: or, 2. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without damages, for the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same: or, 3. Claims to recover specific personal property, with or without damages, for the withholding thereof: or, 4. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation of law: or, 5. Injuries to character: or, 6. Other injuries to person and property, or either: But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to one only of these classes, and must affect all the parties to the action, and not require different places of trial, and must he separately stated.

§ 664. Every material allegation of the complaint not specifically controverted by the answer, as prescribed in section 645; and every material allegation of new matter in the answer constituting a counterclaim, not specifically controverted by the reply, as prescribed in section 651, must for the purposes of the action, be taken as true. But the allegation of new matter in the answer not relating to a counterclaim, or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial, or avoidance as the case may require.

§ 665. A material allegation in a pleading, is one essential to the claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading, without leaving it insufficient.

CHAPTER VI. MISTAKES IN PLEADING, AND AMENDMENTS.

Material variances, how provided for.
Immaterial variances, how provided for.
What to be deemed a variance.
Amendments of course, and after demurrer.
Amendments by the court.
Suing a party by a fictitious name, when allowed.
No error or defect to be regarded, unless it affect substantial rights.
Supplemental complaint, answer and reply.

§ 666. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof; is to be deemed material, unless it have actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense, upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged, that a party has been so misled that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the court and it must be proved to the satisfaction of the court and it must be shown in what respect he has been misled; and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as may be just.

§ 667. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment, without costs.

§ 668. Where, however, the allegation of the claim or defense to which the proof is directed is unproved not in some particular or particulars only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance, within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

§ 669. Any pleading may be once amended by the party of course, without, costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any time before the period for answering it expires, or, if it do not delay the trial, it can be so amended at any time within twenty days after service of the answer to such pleading. In such case a copy of the amended pleading must be served on the adverse party. After the decision of a demurrer, either at a general or special term, the court may, in its discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was interposed in good faith, allow the defendant to answer, upon such terms as to trial by the court or referees, or as to costs, or otherwise, as may be just.

§ 670. The court may, at any time, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the case, or, when the amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved. The court may likewise, in its discretion, allow an answer or reply to be made, after the time limited by this act, or by an order enlarging such time, and may also, at any time within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order, or other proceeding, taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; and may supply an omission, in any proceeding. And whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to conform in any respect to the provisions of this code, the court may permit an amendment of such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.

§ 671. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding, by any name; and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.

§ 672. The court must, in every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect, in the pleadings or proceedings, which does not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment can be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.

§ 673. The plaintifff and defendant respectively, may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former complaint, answer or reply.

TITLE VII. OF THE PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Arrest and bail.
Claim and delivery of personal property.
Injunction.
Attachment.
Receivers.
Deposit in court.

CHAPTER I. ARREST AND BAIL.

No person to be arrested, except as prescribed by this code.
Cases in which defendant may be arrested.
Order for arrest, by whom made.
Affidavit to obtain order.
Security by plaintifff, before order for arrest.
Order, when made and its form.
Affidavit and order to be delivered to sheriff, and copy to defendant.
Arrest, how made.
Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.
Bail, how given.
Surrender of defendant.
Bail, how proceeded against.
Bail, how exonerated.
Delivery of undertaking to plaintifff, and its acceptance or rejection by him.
Notice of justification. New undertaking, if other bail.
Qualifications of bail.
Justification and allowance of bail.
Deposit of money with sheriff.
Payment of money into court by sheriff.
Substituting bail for deposit.
Money deposited, how applied, or disposed of.
Sheriff, when liable as bail; and his discharge from liability.
Proceedings on judgment against sheriff.
Bail liable to sheriff.
Motion to vacate order or arrest or reduce bail.
Affidavits on motion. 

§ 674. No person can be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed by this chapter; but this provision does not apply to proceedings for contempt.

§ 675. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed, in the following cases: 1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of action arising on an obligation, where the defendant is not a resident of the state, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action is for a willful injury to person, or to property knowing the property to belong to another: 2. In an action for a fine, or penalty, or on a promise to marry, or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use, by a public officer, or an officer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in office or in a professional employment: 3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly detained, where the property or any part thereof has been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by the sheriff: 4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud, in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for which the action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention, or conversion of which the action is brought: 5. When the defendant has removed, concealed or disposed of, his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors: 6. When the arrest of the defendant is expressly authorized by special statutes, in an action for a fine or penalty, or for a willful violation of duty. But no female can be arrested, in any action, except for a willful injury to person, character or property.

§ 676. An order for the arrest of the defendant, must be obtained from a judge of the court in which the action is brought, or if the action be in the supreme court from a county judge.

§ 677. The order may be made, whenever it appears to the judge by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or of any other person, that a sufficient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of those mentioned in section 675.

§ 678. Before making the order, the judge must require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with or without sureties, to the effect, that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs and charges that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which must be at least one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintifff, without sureties. he must annex thereto an affidavit, that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within the state, and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking, over all his debts and liabilities.

§ 679. The order may be made, to accompany the summons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment. It must require the sheriff of the county, where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at a time and place therein mentioned, to the plaintifff or attorney by whom it is subscribed or endorsed.

§ 680. The affidavit and order of arrest must be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, must deliver to him a copy thereof.

§ 681. The sheriff must execute the order, by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody, until discharged by law.

§ 682. The defendant, at any time before execution, may be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

§ 683. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating their places of residence and occupations, to the effect, that the defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to the process of the court, during the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section 675, an undertaking to the same effect as that provided by section 707.

§ 684. At any time before a failure to comply with their undertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested, in the following manner: 1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail must be delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and by a certificate in writing acknowledge the surrender: 2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and sheriff ’s certificate, a judge of the court or, if the action be in the supreme court, a county judge may, upon a notice to the plaintifff, of eight days with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated: and on filing the order and the papers used on such application, they shall be exonerated accordingly. But this section does not apply to an arrest for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section 675.

§ 685. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail; at any time or place, before they are finally charged, may themselves arrest him, or by a written authority, endorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so.

§ 686. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking, the bail can be proceeded against by action only.

§ 687. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state prison, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested, in execution thereof, within twenty days after the commencement of the action against the bail, or within such further time as may be granted by the court.

§ 688. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff must deliver the order of arrest to the plaintifff or attorney by whom it is subscribed, with his return endorsed, and the undertaking of the bail or a copy thereof. The plaintifff, within ten days thereof, may serve upon the sheriff, a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he must be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability.

§ 689. On the receipt of the undertaking or copy and notice, the sheriff or defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintifff or attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of the justification of the same or other bail, (specifying the places of residence and occupations of the latter,) before a judge of the court, or county judge, or justice of the peace, at a specified time and place; the time to be not less than five, nor more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there must be a new undertaking in the form prescribed in section 683.

§ 690. The qualifications of bail must be as follows: 1. Each of them must be a resident, and householder or freeholder, within the state: 2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution, but the judge, or a justice of the peace, on justification, may allow more than two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.

§ 691. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail must attend before the judge, or a justice of the peace, at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff, touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the judge or justice of the peace, in his discretion, may think proper. The examination must be reduced to writing and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.

§ 692. If the judge or justice find the bail sufficient, he must annex the examination to the undertaking, endorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk; and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.

§ 693. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order. The sheriff must thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

§ 694. The sheriff must, within four days after the deposit, pay the same into court; and take from the officer receiving the same, two certificates of such payment, the one of which he must deliver to the plaintifff and the other to the defendant. For any default in making such payment, the same proceedings may be had on the official bond of the sheriff to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 695. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed in section 689, at any time before judgment; and thereupon the judge before whom the justification is had, must direct, in the order of allowance, that the money deposited be refunded by the sheriff to the defendant, and it must be refunded accordingly.

§ 696. Where money shall have been so deposited, if it remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of money to the plaintifff, the clerk must, under the direction of the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment, refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk must refund to him the whole sum deposited, and remaining unapplied.

§ 697. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued, or bail be not given or justified; or a deposit be not made instead thereof, the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail. But he may discharge himself from such liability, by the giving and justification of bail as provided in sections 689, 690, 691, and 692, at any time before process against the person of the defendant, to enforce an order or judgment in the action.

§ 698; If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on the official bond of the sheriff, to collect the deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 699. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, unless they justify, or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff, by action, for the damages which he may sustain by reason of such omission.

§ 700. A defendant arrested may at any time before the justification of bail, apply, on motion to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail.

§ 701. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

CHAPTER II. CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

Delivery of personal property, when it may be claimed.
Affidavit and its requisites.
Requisition to sheriff, to take and deliver the property.
Security on the part of the plaintifff, and justification.
Exception to sureties and proceedings thereon or on failure to except.
Defendant when entitled to re-delivery.
Justification of defendant’s sureties.
Property how taken when concealed in building or enclosure.
Property, how kept.
Claim of property by third person.
Notice and affidavit, when and where to be filed.

§ 702. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property as provided in this chapter.

§ 703. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be made by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing, 1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, (particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which must be set forth: 2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant: 3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best knowledge, information and belief. 4. That the same has not been taken for a tax assessment or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution or attachment against the property of the plaintifff; or if so seized, that it is, by statute exempt from such seizure; and, 5. The actual value of the property.

§ 704. The plaintifff may, thereupon, by an endorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county where the property is claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant, and deliver it to the plaintifff.

§ 705. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a written undertaking, executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff to the effect that they are bound, in double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the plaintifff, the sheriff must forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He must also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken; or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and discretion.

§ 706. The defendant may within three days after the service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he must be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify on notice in like manner, as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them is either waived as above provided, or until they justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as provided in the next section.

§ 707. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound, in double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the defendant. If a return of the property be not so required within three days after the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it must be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section 712.

§ 708. The defendant's sureties, upon notice to the plaintifff of not less than two nor more than six days, must justify before a judge or justice of the peace, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon such justification, the sheriff must deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties, until they justify, or until the justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the property until that time, but if they or others in their place, fail to justify, at the time and place appointed, he must deliver the property to the plaintifff.

§ 709. The qualification of sureties and their justification, must be such as are prescribed by sections 690 and 691, in respect to bail upon an order of arrest.

§ 710. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff must publicly demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he must cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the property into his possession, and if necessary, he may call to his aid the power of his county.

§ 711. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this chapter provided, he must keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping, the same.

§ 712. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto or right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title or right and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such claim, by an undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits, that they are each worth double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff, and freeholders and householders of the county. And no claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his agent, shall be valid against the sheriff unless so made and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, ‘he may retain the property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.

§ 713. The sheriff must file the notice and affidavit with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.

CHAPTER III. INJUNCTION.

Injunction by writ or order.
In what cases granted by order.
At what time it may be granted.
Notice, when required. Temporary injunction.
Security upon injunction. Damages, how ascertained.
Order to show cause why injunction should not be granted.
Security, upon injunction to suspend business of corporation.
Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
Affidavits, on motion. 

§ 714. An injunction is a writ or order, requiring a person to refrain from a particular act. When granted as a provisional remedy, it is by order. The order may be made by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, in the cases prescribed in the next section; and when made by a judge, may be enforced as the order of the court.

§ 715. Where it appears by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the commission or continuance of which, during the litigation, would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintifff, or when during the litigation, it appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintifff's rights, respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted, to restrain such act. And where, during the pendency of an action, the defendant threatens, or is about to remove, or dispose of, his property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such removal or disposition.

§ 716. The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or of any other person, that sufficient grounds exist thereforee. A copy of the affidavit must be served with the injunction.

§ 717. An injunction cannot be allowed, after the defendant has answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show cause; but in such case, the defendant may be restrained, until the decision of the court or judge, granting or refusing the injunction.

§ 718. Where no provision is made by special statute, as to security upon an injunction, the court or judge must require a written undertaking, on the part of the plaintifff, with or without sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay to the party enjoined, such damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, as he may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court, finally decide that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the court may direct.

§ 719. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any of several defendants, should be heard before granting the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction should not be granted; and the defendant may in the mean time be restrained.

§ 720. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business of a corporation must not be granted except by the court. Nor must it be granted, without due notice of the application thereforee, to the proper officers of the corporation, except where the people of this state are a party to the proceeding, and except in proceedings to enforce the liability of stockholders in corporations and association for banking purposes, after the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and fifty, as such proceedings are or shall be provided by law, unless the plaintifff give a written undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay all damages not exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, which such corporation may sustain, by reason of the injunction, if the court finally decide that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the court directs.

§ 721. If the injunction be granted by a judge with out notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon notice, to any judge of the court in which the action is brought, to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made upon the complaint and the affidavits on which the injunction was granted, or upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, with or without the answer.

§ 722. If the application be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the injunction was granted.

CHAPTER IV. ATTACHMENT.

Property of foreign corporations and of non-resident or absconding or concealed defendants may be attached.
Order for attachment by whom granted.
Security in obtaining order.
Order, to whom directed, and what to require.
Interest in corporations or associations, liable to attachment.
Mode of proceeding in executing order.
Certificate of defendant’s interest to be furnished by corporation.
Proceeding in case of perishable property.
Property claimed by a third person to be delivered upon security.
Defense in action on the security.
Sheriff may summon jury to try claim.
Defendant or claimant may be required to give information.
Disposition of property after judgment.
Action to recover debts attached may be prosecuted by plaintifff.
Securities to be delivered to defendant in case of recovery by him.
Property may be released upon security.
What security sufficient.
Attachment may be vacated on motion.
Affidavits to be used on motion.
Sheriff to make return. 

§ 723. In an action for the recovery of money against a corporation, created by or under the laws of any other state government or country, or against a defendant who is not a resident of this state, or against a defendant who has absconded or concealed himself as hereinafter mentioned, the plaintifff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the property of such defendant attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the plaintifff may recover.

§ 724. An order for the attachment must be obtained from a judge of the court in which the action is brought, or if the action be in the supreme court, from a county judge.

§ 725. The order may be made whenever it appears by affidavit, that a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the amount of the claim, and the grounds thereof; and that the defendant is either a foreign corporation, or not a resident of this state, or has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent.

§ 726. Before making the order, the judge must require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with sufficient surety, to the effect, that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs and charges that may be awarded to tm defendant, and all damages which he may sustain, by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which must be at least two hundred and fifty dollars.

§ 727. The order must be directed to the sheriff of any county in which property of such defendant may be, and require him to attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant within his county and not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff’s demand, the amount of which must be stated, in conformity with the complaint. Several orders may be issued at the same time, to the sheriffs of different counties.

§ 728. The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the stock of any corporation, together with the interest and profits thereon, and all other property in this state of such defendant, may be attached’ and sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

§ 729. The sheriff, to whom the order is directed and delivered, must execute the same without delay, as follows: 1. Real property must be attached, by leaving with the occupant thereof, or if there be no occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the order certified by the sheriff: 2. Personal property, capable of manual delivery to the sheriff must be attached by taking it into his custody: 3. Other personal property must be attached by leaving a certified copy of the order, and a notice specifying the property attached, with a person holding the same, or as to a debt with the debtor, or as to stock or interest in stock of a corporation, with the president or other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof. The sheriff must make a full inventory of the property attached, and return the same with the order of attachment.

§ 730. Whenever the sheriff, with an order of attachment, or with an execution against the defendant, applies to any person mentioned in the third subdivision of the last section, for the purpose of attaching or levying upon the property mentioned therein, such person must furnish him with a certificate, designating the number of rights or shares of the defendant in the stock of the corporation, with any dividend or encumbrance thereon, or the amount and description of the property held by such corporation or person, for the benefit of the defendant, or the debt owing to the defendant. If such person refuse to do so, he may be required by the court or judge to attend before him, and be examined on oath concerning the same, and disobedience to the order may be punished as a contempt.

§ 731. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff must sell the same in the manner in which property is sold on execution, and immediately deposit the proceeds with the clerk of the court. He must also collect, and if necessary, in his name of office, sue for the debts and credits attached, and deposit the amount collected with the clerk. Other property attached by him, must be retained by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in the action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment.

§ 732. The sheriff may deliver any of the property attached to the defendant, or to any other person claiming it, upon his giving a written undertaking thereforee, executed by one or more sufficient sureties, engaging to re-deliver it or pay the value thereof to the sheriff, to whom execution, upon a judgment obtained by the plaintifff in that action, may be issued.

§ 733. If an action be brought upon such undertaking against the principal or his sureties, it shall be a defense, that the property for which the undertaking was given, did not, at the execution of the order of attachment, belong to the defendant against whom it was issued.

§ 734. If the property attached, be claimed by a third person as his property, the sheriff may summon a jury to try the validity of such claim and such proceedings must be had thereon, with the like effect, as in case of seizure upon execution.

§ 735. The defendant or claimant may be required to attend before the court or judge, for the purpose of giving any necessary information respecting the property attached, and may be thereupon examined on oath concerning the same.

§ 736. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff in such action, the sheriff must satisfy the same out of the property attached by him, if it be sufficient for that purpose; 1. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable property, and of any vessel, or share or interest therein, sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment: 2. If any balance remain clue, and an execution shall have been issued on the judgment, he must sell under the execution so much of the attached property, real or personal, except as provided in subdivision four of this section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands; and in case of the sale of any rights or shares in the stock of a corporation, the sheriff must execute to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, and the purchaser shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect thereto which were had by the defendant. 3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant, shall have passed out of the hands of the sheriff, without having been sold or converted into money, the sheriff must re-possess himself of the same, and for that purpose shall have all the authority, which he had to seize the same under the attachment, and any person who shall willfully conceal or withhold such property from the sheriff, shall be liable to double damages at the suit of the party injured. 4. Until the judgment against the defendant be paid, the sheriff may collect the notes, other evidences of debt, and debts that may have been attached, and may prosecute any bond he may have taken in the course of such proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of the judgment; or, upon the order of the court, he may sell such notes, evidences and debts, and apply the proceeds in like manner. When the judgment and costs shall have been paid, the sheriff upon reasonable demand, must deliver over to the defendant the residue of the attached property or the proceeds thereof.

§ 737. The actions authorized by sections 731 and 736, to be brought by the sheriff, may be prosecuted by the plaintifff, or under his direction, upon the delivery by him to the sheriff of an undertaking executed by two sufficient sureties, to the effect, that the plaintifff will indemnify the sheriff from all damages, costs and charges on account thereof; not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in any one action. Such sureties shall in all cases, when required by the sheriff, justify, by making an affidavit that each is a householder, and worth double the amount of the penalty: of the bond, over and above all debts and liabilities.

§ 738. If the foreign corporation, or absent, or absconding or concealed defendant, recover judgment against the plaintifff, in such action, any undertaking received by the sheriff, except such as is mentioned in the last section, all the proceeds of sales and money collected by him, and all the property attached remaining in his hands, must be delivered by him to the defendant or his agent on request; the order of attachment must be discharged, and the property released therefrom.

§ 739. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the action, he may apply to the judge who issued the attachment, or to the court, for an order to discharge the same, upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the next section ; and if the application be granted, all the proceeds of sales and monies collected by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining in his hands, must be released from the attachment and delivered to the defendant.

§ 740. Upon such application, the defendant must deliver to the court or judge an undertaking executed by at least two sureties, resident and freeholders in this state, approved by such court or judge, to the effect, that the sureties will on demand pay to the plaintifff, the amount of the judgment that may be recovered against the defendant in the action, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which must be at least double the amount claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint.

§ 741. The defendant may also, any time before the time for answering expires, apply on motion to vacate the order of attachment.

§ 742. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the order of attachment was made.

§ 743. When the order of attachment is fully executed or discharged, the sheriff must return the same with his proceedings thereon, to the court in which the action was brought.

CHAPTER V. RECEIVERS.

Receiver of property in litigation, may be appointed.
Powers of a receiver.

§ 744. In the cases mentioned in the first subdivision of section 546, the court may provisionally appoint a receiver of property; and may protect and support him in the proper discharge of his duties.

§ 745. A receiver, subject always to the control of the court, has power to bring and defend actions; to take and keep possession of property; collect debts; receive the rents and profits of real property; and generally to do such acts in respect to the property committed to him, as the court may authorize.

CHAPTER VI. DEPOSIT IN COURT.

When court may order a payment or deposit of the subject of litigation.
Manner of enforcing the order.

§ 746. When it is admitted by the pleading, or examination, of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money or other thing, capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs, or is due, to another party, the court may order the same to be deposited in court, or delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to the further direction of the court.

§ 747. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall have ordered the deposit, or delivery, of money or other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience, may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the direction of the court.

TITLE VIII. OF THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT CIVIL ACTIONS.

Judgment in general.
Judgment upon failure to answer.
Issues and the mode of trial.
Trial by jury.
Trial by the court.
Trial by referees.
Provisions relating to trials in general.
The manner of giving and entering judgment. 

CHAPTER I. JUDGMENTS IN GENERAL.

A judgment defined.
When several defendants, judgment may be, for or against any.
Judgement may be given as to some, and action continued as to others.
Judgment except upon failure to answer not limited to the relief asked in complaint.
Judgment dismissing actions when given.
All other judgment are on the merits.
Judgments when several.

§ 748. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the parties in the action.

§ 749. Judgment may be given, for or against one or more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants, and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves.

§ 750. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment is proper.

§ 751. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but in any other case, the court may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint, and embraced within the issue.

§ 752. The action may be dismissed without a final determination of its merits, in the following cases: 1. By the plaintifff himself at any time before trial, if a provisional remedy has not been allowed, or counterclaim made: 2. By either party, with the written consent of the other: 3. By the court, when, upon the trial and before the final submission of the case the plaintifff abandons it: 4. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal: 5. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, when there are others whom the plaintifff fails to prosecute with diligence. All other modes of dismissing an action by non-suit, or otherwise, are abolished. The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions is made by an entry in the clerk’s register, and a notice served on the adverse party. Judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly.

§ 753. In every case, other than those mentioned in the last section, the judgment must be rendered on the merits.

§ 754. Though all the defendants have been served with the summons, judgment may be taken against any of them severally, when the plaintifff would be entitled to judgment against such defendants, if the action had been against them alone.

CHAPTER II. JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

§ 755. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, as follows: 1. In an action arising on obligation, for the recovery of money only, the plaintifff may file with the clerk, proof of personal service of the summons, and that no answer has been received. The clerk must thereupon enter judgment for the amount mentioned in the summons, against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in section 632; 2. In other actions, the plaintifff may, upon the like proof, apply to the court, after the expiration of the time for answering, for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take the account or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the action is for the recovery of money only, or of specific, real or personal property, with damages for the withholding thereof; the court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury, or if the examination of a long account be involved, by a reference as above provided; 3. In actions, where the service of the summons was by publication, the plaintifff may in like manner apply for judgment, and the court must thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint, and if the defendant be not a resident of the state, must require the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath, respecting any payments that have been made to the plaintifff or to any one for his use on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover. Before judgment the plaintifff must give satisfactory security, to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution of any property collected or received under the judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives are admitted to defend the action, and succeed in the defense.

CHAPTER III. ISSUES, AND THE MODE OF TRIAL.

Issues defined.
Issues of law.
Issues of fact. Both on same pleadings.
Trial defined.
Issues of law to be tried by court or referred.
Certain issues of fact to be tried by jury, or referred.
Other issues tried by court or referred.
Issues triable by court to be before one judge.
Either party may give notice of trial, and place case on calendar.
Order in which issues must be tried.
Either party may bring on trial.
When several defendants, separate trials allowed.
Affidavit to put over trial.
Plaintiff to furnish copies of summons and pleadings. 

§ 756. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other. They are of two kinds: 1. Of law; and, 2. Of fact.

§ 757. An issue of law arises, 1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, or to some part thereof.

§ 758. An issue of fact arises, 1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the answer: or, 2. Upon new matter in the answer constituting a counterclaim, controverted by the reply; or, upon other new matter in the answer: or, 3. Upon new matter in the reply: Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action.

§ 759. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.

§ 760. An issue of law must be tried by the court, unless it be referred, as provided in sections 335 and 336.

§ 761. An issue of fact, in an action for the recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal property, or for a divorce from the marriage contract on the ground of adultery, must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived, as provided in section 796, or a reference be ordered, as provided in sections 335 and 336.

§ 762. Every other issue of fact must be tried by the court, subject, however, to the right of the parties to consent, or of the court to order, that the whole issue, or any specific question of fact involved therein, be tried by a jury, or be referred, as provided in sections 335 and 336.

§ 763. All issues, whether of law or fact, triable by a jury or by the court, must be tried before a single judge. Issues of fact in the supreme court, must be tried at the circuits, issues of law in the first instance at a circuit, or special term, or before a single judge, as provided in section 49.

§ 764. At any time after issue, and at least ten days before the court, either party may give notice of trial. The party giving the notice must furnish the clerk, at least four days before the court, with a note of the issue, containing the title of the action, the names of the attorneys, and the time when the last pleading was served; and the clerk must thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar, according to the date of the issue. The issues, once placed upon the calendar of a circuit or special term, if not tried at the circuit or term for which the notice was given, need not be noticed for a subsequent circuit or term, but must remain upon the calendar, from court to court, until finally disposed of. But when an issue of law is to be tried before a judge out of court, no calendar need be made or note of issue furnished.

§ 765. The issues on the calendar must be disposed of in the following order; unless, for the convenience of parties, or the dispatch of business, the court otherwise direct; 1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury: 2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court: 3. Issues of law.

§ 766. Either party, after the notice of trial, whether given by himself, or by the adverse party, may bring the issue to trial, and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take, a dismissal of the action, or a verdict, or judgment, as the case may require.

§ 767. A separate trial, between the plaintifff and any of several defendants, may be allowed by the court, whenever, in its opinion, justice will be thereby promoted.

§ 768. A motion to postpone a trial for the absence of evidence, can only be made upon affidavit, showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to procure it. The court may also require the moving party to state the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party thereupon admit, that such evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial must not be postponed.

§ 769. The plaintifff must furnish the court before the trial begins with a copy of the summons and pleadings, and the offer of the defendant, if any shall have been made.

CHAPTER IV. TRIAL BY JURY.

Formation of the jury.
Conduct of the trial.
The verdict.

ARTICLE I. FORMATION OF THE JURY.

Clerks to draw jury ballots.
When bystanders may be summoned.
Ballots to be returned to box.
Challenges to jurors how made and tried. 

§ 770. When the action is called for trial by jury, the clerk must draw from the trial jury box of the court, the ballots containing the names of jurors, until the jury is completed or the ballots are exhausted. If the ballots become exhausted before the jury is complete, the sheriff, under the direction of the court, must summon from the bystanders or the body of the county, so many qualified persons as to complete the jury.

§ 771. As soon as the drawing of the jury is completed, an oath must be administered to each juror, that he will well and truly try the matter in issue between __ the plaintifff and __ the defendant, and a true verdict give, according to evidence.

§ 772. When the jury is completed and sworn, the ballots containing the names of the jurors sworn must be laid aside, till the jury so sworn is discharged, and then they must be returned to the box; and every ballot drawn containing the name of a juror not so sworn must be returned to the box as soon as the jury is completed.

§ 773. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are several parties on either side, they must join in a challenge before it can be made. The challenges are to the panel and to individual jurors, as in criminal actions, except that there can be but two peremptory challenges on each side. And the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the subject of challenges, and the disposition thereof, omitting section 415, are to apply, so far as in their nature applicable and consistent with the provisions of this code, to challenges in civil actions and the disposition thereof; substituting “plaintifff” for “people” and for “person alleged to be injured by the offense charged, or on whose complaint the prosecution was instituted.”

ARTICLE II. CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL.

Order of proceedings on trial.
When a view may be ordered.
Manner of keeping jury.
If juror be taken sick, jury discharged.
The charge to the jury.
Manner of keeping jury while deliberating.
Court may order food and lodging for jurors, when deliberating.
What papers jury may take.
After retiring jurors may return for information.
If jury cannot agree, may be discharged.
If jury is discharged, a new trial to be had.
Court to be open until verdict or discharge.
If any jury is absent on return, the jury must be discharged.
Manner of announcing verdict.
Jury may be polled, or insufficient verdict corrected.
Verdict to be entered, and read to jury. 

§ 774. When the jury has been completed and sworn, the trial must proceed in the following order, unless the court, for special reasons, otherwise directs: 1. The plaintifff after stating the issue, must open the case and produce the evidence on his part: 2. The defendant may then open his defense and offer his evidence in support thereof: 3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting evidence only, unless the court for good reason, in furtherance of justice, permit them to offer evidence upon their original case: 4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is submitted to the jury on either side, or on both sides, without argument, the defendant must commence, and the plaintifff conclude the argument to the jury: 5. If several defendants, having separate defenses, appear by different counsel, the court must determine their relative order in the evidence and argument: 6. The court may then charge the jury.

§ 775. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper that the jury should have a view of real property which is the subject of the litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order the jury to be conducted in a body, in the custody of proper officers, to the place, which will be shown to them by the judge, or by a person appointed by the court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than the judge or person so appointed, must speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.

§ 776. The jurors may be kept together in charge of proper officers, or may, in the discretion of the court, at any time before the submission of the cause to the jury, be permitted to separate. In either case, they may be admonished by the court, that it is their duty not to converse with any other person or among themselves, on any subject connected with the trial, or to form or express any opinion thereon, until the cause is finally submitted to them.

§ 777. If, after the empaneling of the jury, and before verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court may order him to be discharged. In that case a new juror may be sworn, and the trial begin anew, or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards empaneled.

§ 778. In charging the jury, the court must state to them all matters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving their verdict: and if it present the facts of the case, it must also inform the jury that they are the exclusive judges of all questions or fact.

§ 779. After hearing the charge, the jury may either decide in court, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they must be kept together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place, under the charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon their verdict, or are discharged by the court. The officer must, to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury thus together, separate from other persons, without drink except water, and without food, except ordered by the court; he must not suffer any communication to be made to them, not make any himself, unless by order of the court, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict, and he must not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed on.

§ 780. If, while the jury are kept together, either during the progress of the trial or after their retirement for deliberation, the court order them to be provided with suitable and sufficient food and lodging, they must be so provided by the sheriff, at the expense of the county, or if the trial be in a city court, at the expense of the city.

§ 781. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with them all papers, (except depositions,) which have been received as evidence in the cause, or copies of such parts of public records or private documents, given in, evidence, as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken from the person having them in possession; and they may also take with them notes of the testimony or other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves or any of them, but none taken by any other person.

§ 782. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, they may require the officer to conduct them into court. Upon their being brought into court, the information required must be given, in the presence of; or after notice to the parties or counsel.

§ 783. Except as provided in sections 777 and 786, or in case of some accident or calamity, requiring their discharge, the jury cannot be discharged after the cause is submitted to them, until they have agreed upon their verdict, and rendered it in open court, unless by the consent of both parties entered upon the minutes, or unless at the expiration of such time as the court deem proper, it satisfactorily appear, that there is no probability of an agreement.

§ 784. In all cases where a jury are discharged, or prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of accident or other cause, during the progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action may be again tried, immediately, or at a future time, as the court directs.

§ 785. While the jury are absent, the court may adjourn from time to time, in respect to other business; but it is nevertheless to be deemed open, for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. A final adjournment of the court discharges the jury.

§ 786. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they must be conducted into court by the officer having them in charge. Their names must then be called; and if all do not appear, the rest must be discharged without giving a verdict.

§ 787. If the jury appear, they must be asked by the court or the clerk, whether they have agreed upon their verdict; and if the foreman answer in the affirmative, they must, on being required, declare the same.

§ 788. When a verdict is rendered, and before it is recorded, the jury may be polled on the request of either party; for which purpose each juror must be asked whether it be his verdict; if any one answer in the negative, the jury must be sent out for further deliberation. If the verdict be informal or insufficient, it may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out.

§ 789. When the verdict is given, and is such as the court may receive, the clerk must immediately record it in full in the minutes, and must read it to the jury and inquire of them whether it be their verdict. If any juror disagree, the fact must be entered in the minutes, and the jury again sent out; but if no disagreement be expressed, the verdict is complete, and the jury must be discharged from the case.

ARTICLE III. THE VERDICT.

Definition of verdict, general and special.
Discretion of jury to give general or special verdict.
Special verdict controls general.
Jury must assess damages.
Must assess value of property in certain cases.
Minutes trial and verdict to be made.

§ 790. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict, is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the court. It must present the conclusions of fact as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them, and those conclusions of fact must be so presented, as that nothing remains to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.

§ 791. In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real property, the jury in their discretion, may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases, the court may direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing, upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases may instruct them if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding must be filed with the clerk and entered upon the minutes.

§ 792. Where a special finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the court must give judgment accordingly.

§ 793. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff, in an action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when a counterclaim for the recovery of money is established, beyond the amount of the plaintifff's claim as established, the jury must also assess the amount of the recovery.

§ 794. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the property have not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury must, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if being in favor of the defendant, they also find that he is entitled to a return thereof; must assess the value of the property, and may at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the taking or detention of such property.

§ 795. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry must be made, in the minutes of the court, specifying the time and place of the trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment to be rendered thereon, or when the court is in doubt what judgment ought to be given, it may order that the case be reserved for argument or further consideration.

CHAPTER V. TRIAL BY THE COURT.

Jury trial may be waived.
On trial by court, decision on questions of fact and of law to be separate.
Proceedings after determination of issue of law.

§ 796. The trial by jury may be waived by the several parties, to an issue of fact, in actions arising on obligations, and with the assent of the court, in other actions, in the manner following: 1. By failing to appear at the trial: 2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk: 3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.

§ 797. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision must be given in writing, and filed with the clerk, with twenty days after the circuit or term at which the trial took place. In giving the decision, the facts found, and the conclusions of law, must be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision must be entered accordingly.

§ 798. On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an issue of law, the plaintifff may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two subdivisions of section 755, upon the failure of the defendant to answer, where the summons was personally served. If judgment be for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and the taking of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered, as in that section provided.

CHAPTER VI. TRIAL BY REFEREES.

Trial by referees.
Judgment to be entered on report of referees.

§ 799. A trial by referees is conducted in the same manner as a trial by the court.

§ 800. The report of the referees upon the whole issue stands as the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner, as if the action had been tried by the court; and their decision may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. When the reference is to report the facts, the report has the effect of a special verdict.

CHAPTER VII. PROVISIONS RELATING TO TRIALS IN GENERAL.

Exceptions.
New trials.
General provisions.

ARTICLE I. EXCEPTIONS.

Exceptions defined.
Manner of taking and settling exceptions.
What exception contains.

§ 801. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial be by the jury, court, or referees, and whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury, the production of evidence, the charge to a jury, or at any other time from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of the verdict or decision. But no exception is to be regarded on a motion for a new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be material, and affect substantial rights of the party.

§ 802. The point of the exception must be particularly stated, and either delivered in writing to the judge, or entered in his minutes, and immediately corrected or added to, until made conformable to the truth, or it may afterwards be settled, in a statement of the case, as provided in section 807.

§ 803. No particular form of exception is required. The objection must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it, but no more, and the whole as briefly as possible. If the decision excepted to be verbally made, it must, upon the exception being taken, be reduced to writing, and entered either in the judge’s minutes, or the minutes of the court, or in the statement.

ARTICLE II. NEW TRIALS.

New trial defined.
In what cases may be granted.
On what papers moved for.
Manner of settling a case on exceptions.
Application to be heard at special term.
Notice in certain cases when to be given.

§ 804. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact, in the same court, after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or referees.

§ 805. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of such party: 1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or prevailing party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion, by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial: 2. Misconduct of the jury, or of the prevailing party: 3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against: 4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given, under the influence of passion or prejudice: 5. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision: or that it is against law: 6. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at the trial: 7. Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party making the application.

§ 806. When the application is made for a cause, mentioned in the fourth, fifth, and seventh subdivisions of the last section, it is made either upon the judge’s minutes, or a statement of the case, prepared as prescribed in the next section; for any other cause it is made upon affidavit.

§ 807. The party preparing a statement is to propose a draft of it, and, within five days after the trial, serve it upon the adverse party, who may within five days thereafter, propose amendments to it. If no amendment be proposed, the draft is adopted; if proposed, the statement and amendments may be submitted for settlement to the judge, or referee, before whom the trial was had, upon a notice of five days: if such notice be not served within five days after the amendments are proposed, they are adopted.

§ 808. The application for a new trial must, in the first instance, be made at a special term, except when made upon an appeal.

§ 809. The application for a cause mentioned in the 4th and 5th subdivisions of section 805 can only be made, when notice thereof, oral or written, was given in open court, immediately after the verdict or other decision rendered; and thereupon if the adverse party consent, the court must appoint a day in the same term for hearing the application upon the judge’s minutes. If however the application be not heard at the same term, or if an appeal be taken, a statement of the case must be made.

ARTICLE III. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Rate of damages recoverable.
On trial, parties to submit distinctly the points.
Certain provisions applicable to other cases.

§ 810. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff may claim and recover any rate of damages, to which he may be entitled, for the cause of action established.

§ 811. Any party may, and if required by the court, must when the evidence is closed, submit in distinct and concise propositions, the conclusions of fact which he claims to be established, or the conclusions of law, which he desires to have adjudged, or both; they may be written and handed to the court, or at the option of the court, oral and entered in the judge’s minutes; but in either case they must be entered with any exceptions that may be taken, if either party require it.

§ 812. The provisions of this title, respecting trials by jury, apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court or referees, and, in the same manner, the provisions respecting trials by the court apply to trials by referees.

CHAPTER VIII. THE MANNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

Judgment to conform to verdict.
If judgment reserved, when and how given.
Judgment when counterclaim established.
May include specific property and damages.
Judgment to be entered on direction of single judge.
Clerk to keep a judgment book.
Judgment must specify the relief granted.
If a party die after verdict, judgment may be given.
Judgment roll, how made and exemplified.
Judgment, a lien from the time of docketing in the county only. 
All judgment liens to cease after 1860.
What the docket must contain.
Satisfaction of judgment how entered.

§ 813. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, unless the court order the case to be reserved for argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.

§ 814. When the case is reserved for argument or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, on the ground that judgment ought not to be given in conformity to the verdict, or that it is doubtful what judgment should be given, the questions reserved may be decided by the court, and judgment thereupon rendered without further argument, or if not so decided they may be brought before the court for judgment, at a special term, upon notice; and judgment thereupon rendered.

§ 815. If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintifff’s demand so established, judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess, or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment must be given accordingly.

§ 816. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession, or the value, thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If the property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding the same.

§ 817. Judgment upon an issue of law, or of fact, or upon confession, or upon failure to answer, (except where the clerk is authorized to enter the same by the first subdivision of section 755,) must, in the first instance, be entered upon the direction of a single judge, or the report of referees upon the whole issue, subject to review at the general term, on the demand of either party, as provided in this code.

§ 818. The clerk must keep among the records of the court, a book for the entry of judgments, to be called the “judgment book.”

§ 819. The judgment must be entered in the judgment book, and must specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action.

§ 820. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon an issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may nevertheless render judgment thereon. Such judgment is not a lien on the real property of the deceased party, but is payable in the course of administration on his estate.

§ 821. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk must attach together and file the following papers, which constitute the judgment roll: 1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service, and that no answer has been received, the report, if any, and a copy of the judgment. 2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof, and a copy of the judgment with any verdict or report, the offer of the defendant, exceptions, and all orders relating to a change of parties, or in any way involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment. If a statement of the case be made, the same may be attached to the judgment roll, on the request of either party, and thenceforth forms a part thereof. When the defendant is entitled to judgment, if the plaintifff shall not have filed the summons, with proof of service and the pleadings on his part, the copies of summons and pleadings served on the defendant, may be substituted thereforee in making the judgment roll, or the plaintifff may, at the instance of the defendant, be ordered by a judge forthwith to file such papers. Upon an exemplification of a judgment, as evidence only that part of the roll which consists of the summons, pleadings, and judgment need be given.

§ 822. On filing a judgment roll, upon a judgment requiring the payment of money, the judgment may be docketed with the clerk of the county where it was rendered, and in any other county, upon filing with the clerk thereof a transcript of the original docket; and thereupon the judgment becomes a lien on real property in the county, from the time of docketing it therein.

§ 823. The lien, mentioned in the last section, extends to all the real property of the judgment debtor in the county, owned by him at the time of the judgment, or afterwards acquired, and continues till the first day of July, 1860, on all unsatisfied judgments rendered or which may be rendered before that time. But after the first day of January, 1860, there can be no such lien.

§ 824. The docket mentioned in section 822 is a book, which the clerk must keep in his office, and in which he must enter alphabetically, under the name of the person, 1. The names of the parties to the judgment: 2. The amount of the judgment: and 3. The precise time of his entry.

§ 825. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the clerk’s register and docket, upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, by the judgment creditor, or within two years after the judgment, by the attorney, unless a revocation of his authority is previously entered upon the register. Whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an execution, it is the duty of the party or attorney to give such acknowledgment, and upon motion, the court may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without it. And whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact as to any one of several defendants, an entry to that effect may be made in the register and docket.

TITLE IX. OF THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

The execution.
Proceedings supplementary to the execution.

CHAPTER I. THE EXECUTION.

Execution within five years, of course, as prescribed by this title.
The different kinds of execution.
Contents of the execution.
To be returnable in sixty days.
Specific judgments, how enforced.
After five years, to be issued only by leave of court. Leave how obtained.
Execution after death of debtor.
To what counties execution may be issued.
Execution against the person, in what cases and when.
Persons arrested on execution to be imprisoned.
After arrest, another execution not to issue.
What property may be levied on.
When property is claimed by a third person, sheriff may summon jury to try the claim.
What property is exempt from execution.
Manner of executing against property.
Notice of sale of property.
Penalty for selling without notice.
Manner of conducting sale.
Certificate of sale of real property.
How real property may be redeemed.
Redemption may be by payment to purchaser.
The purchaser if a creditor may redeem.
The evidence of the lien must be produced.
Sheriff must execute deed after expiration of time.
Injunction allowed to stay waste after sale.
When title fails, purchaser may have restitution.
When execution against several, is enforced against one, he may have contribution, or if a surety, restitution. 

§ 826. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may at any time within five years after the entry thereof; proceed to enforce the same as prescribed in this title.

§ 827. There are three kinds of writs of execution; one against the property of the judgment debtor; another against his person; and the third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, or such delivery with damages for withholding the same. They are issued in the name of the people and are deemed the process of the court, but they need not be sealed nor subscribed, except as prescribed in the next section.

§ 828. The writ of execution must be directed to the sheriff, subscribed by the party issuing it, or his attorney, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court, the county where the judgment roll or transcript is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of the judgment, if it be for money, the amount actually due thereon, and the time of docketing in the county to which the execution is issued, and must require the sheriff substantially as follows: 1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it must require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, out of his real property, or if the judgment be a lien on real property, then out of the real property belonging to him on the day when the judgment was docketed in the county, or at any time thereafter, or if the judgment be entered pursuant to the first subdivision of section 632, the execution must conform to such judgment: 2. If it be against real or personal property, in the hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it must require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such property: 3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it must require the sheriff to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the jail of the county, until he pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged according to law: 4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it must require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, charges, damages, rents or profits recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property of the party against whom it was rendered, and the value of the property for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out of real property, as provided in the first subdivision of this section, and in that respect it is to be deemed an execution against property.

§ 829. The execution must be made returnable within sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff, to the clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed.

§ 830. Where a judgment requires the payment of money or the delivery of real or personal property, the same is enforced in those respects by execution, as provided in the last three sections. Where it requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the party against whom it is given, or upon the person or officer who is required thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be punished by the court, as for a contempt.

§ 831. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, if no execution have been already issued, an execution can be issued only by leave of the court on motion, upon notice to the adverse party. Such leave must not be given unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due. When the judgment has been rendered in a justice’s court, and docketed in the office of the clerk of the county, the application for leave to issue execution must be to the county court of the county where the judgment was rendered, or in the city and county of New-York, to the court of common pleas of that city, and such court has jurisdiction over the judgment and execution.

§ 832. Notwithstanding the death of a party after judgment, execution thereon against his property may be issued and executed in the same manner and with the same effect, as if he were still living, except that such execution cannot be issued within a year after his death, unless upon permission granted by the surrogate.

§ 833. Where the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county where the judgment is docketed. Where it requires the delivery of real or personal property, it must be issued to the sheriff of the county where the property or some part thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued, at the same time, to different counties.

§ 834. If the action be one in which the defendant might have been arrested, as provided in the first three subdivisions of section 675, an execution against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued to any county within the jurisdiction of the court, after the return of an execution against his property, unsatisfied in whole or in part. An execution against the person may likewise be issued, after such return, in the cases mentioned in the fourth and fifth subdivisions of that section, where the defendant has been provisionally arrested in the action, and the order for his arrest has not been vacated, or upon an order of arrest obtained in the same manner as for a provisional arrest.

§ 835. A person arrested on execution must be imprisoned within the jail, or the liberties thereof, and there kept at his own expense, until satisfaction of the execution, or his legal discharge.

§ 836. When a defendant has been once imprisoned upon execution, no other execution can issue upon the same judgment, unless he escape or die, while charged in execution, or unless he be discharged without the consent of the judgment creditor.

§ 837. All property liable to an attachment is liable to execution. It must be levied on, in the same manner as similar property is attached, pursuant to section 729. Until a levy, property is not affected by the execution.

§ 838. If the property levied on be claimed by a third person as his property, the sheriff may summon from his county any twelve persons, qualified as jurors between the parties, to try the validity of the claim. They and the witnesses must be sworn by the sheriff, and if their verdict be in favor of the claimant, the sheriff may relinquish the levy, unless the judgment creditor give him a sufficient indemnity for proceeding thereon. The fees of the jury must be paid by the claimant, if the verdict be against him, otherwise by the plaintifff.

§ 839. The following property owned by a householder, and in actual use, or kept for use by and for his family, or when being removed from one habitation to another upon a change of residence, is exempt from execution, except as herein otherwise specially provided: 1. Books, pictures, and, musical instruments, to the value of fifty dollars: 2. Necessary household, table and kitchen furniture, including stoves, stove pipe, and stove furniture, wearing apparel, beds, bedding and bedsteads, provisions actually provided for family use, sufficient for six months, including meat, fish, vegetables, flour and meal, with fuel for sixty: days, one cow, ten sheep, two swine, and food for them for three months: 3. The seat or pew occupied by the debtor or his family, in a house of public worship: 4. The tools and implements of a mechanic, necessary to carry on his trade: 5. A horse, harness, and cart or other vehicle, by the use of which a physician, constable, cartman, teamster, or other laborer, habitually earns his living. But the aggregate value of all the property to exempt, cannot exceed two hundred and fifty dollars; nor is any article exempt from an execution issued on a judgment for its price.

§ 840. The sheriff must execute the writ against the property of the judgment debtor, by levying on the property, collecting the things in action, as prescribed by section 731 and the fourth subdivision of section 736, selling the other property, and paying to the plaintifff the proceeds, or so much thereof as will satisfy the execution.

§ 841. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof must be given as follows: 1. In case of personal property, by posting written notice of the time and place of sale, in three public places of the town where the sale is to take place, six days successively: 2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice describing the property with the certainty prescribed by section 656, for six weeks successively, in three public places of the town where the property is situated, and also where the property is to be sold, and publishing a copy thereof once a week for the same period, in a newspaper of the county, if there be one, or if there be none, and the property is not occupied by the judgment debtor, or by a tenant or purchaser under him, then in the state paper. After the first of July, 1860, such notice shall be a lien upon the property until the sale thereof, and the tiling the certificate of the sale with the clerk of the county.

§ 842. A officer selling without the notice prescribed by the last section, shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages, and a person, taking down or defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of the execution, and without the consent of the parties, shall forfeit fifty dollars; but the validity of the sale is not affected by either act.

§ 843. A sale must be made by auction, between nine o’clock in the morning and sunset; after sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more must be sold; neither the officer holding the execution nor his deputy can purchase; when the sale is of personal property, capable of manual delivery, it must be within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such places as are likely to bring the highest price; and when the sale is of real property, and consisting of several known lots, or parcels, they must be sold separately, or when a portion of such real property is claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion must be thus sold.

§ 844. Upon a sale of real property, where the estate is less than a leasehold of two years unexpired term, the sale is absolute. In all other cases the property sold is subject to redemption as provided in the next five sections; the officer must give to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, proved or acknowledged so that it may be recorded, containing, 1. A particular description of the property sold: 2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel: 3. The whole price paid: 4. When subject to redemption, it must be so stated, a duplicate of which certificate must be filed by the officer with the clerk of the county.

§ 845. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the last section; or any part sold separately; may be redeemed; in the manner provided in the next four sections, by the following persons or their successors in interest: 1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest; in the whole or any part of the property. 2. A creditor, having a lien by judgment or mortgage on the property sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to that on which the property was sold. The persons mentioned in the last four subdivisions, are in this chapter termed redemptions.

§ 846. The judgment debtor, or redemptioner, may redeem the property from the purchaser within sixty days after the sale, on paying him the amount of his purchase, and if he be also a creditor having a lien prior to that of the redemptioner, the amount of such lien, with interest.

§ 847. If the property be so redeemed, by a redemptioner, either the judgment debtor or another redemptioner, may within thirty days after the last redemption, again redeem it from the last redemptioner on paying the sum paid on his redemption, with interest, and, unless his lien be prior to that of the proceeding redemptioner, the amount of such lien, with interest. The property may be again, and as often as the debtor or owner, or any redemptioner is so disposed, redeemed from any redemptioner within thirty days after his redemption, and notice thereof filed with the sheriff. If no redemption is made in sixty days after the sale, the purchaser is entitled to a conveyance; or if so redeemed, whenever thirty days have elapsed, and no redemption has been made and notified therein, the time for redemption has expired, and the last redemptioner is entitled to a sheriff’s deed. If the debtor or owner redeem at any time before the time for redemption expires, the effects of the sale are terminated, and he is restored to his estate.

§ 848. The payment mentioned in the last two sections, may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, or for him, to the officer who made the sale; and a tender of the money is equivalent to payment.

§ 849. A redemptioner must produce to the officer or person from whom he seeks to redeem, and file with his notice in the sheriff’s office. 1. A copy of the docket of the judgment, under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the clerk of the court or of the county, where the judgment is docketed, or if he redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of the record thereof, certified by the clerk: 2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified by the affidavit of himself or of a subscribing witness thereto: and 3. An affidavit by himself or his agent showing the amount then actually due on the lien.

§ 850. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, the court may restrain the commission of waste on the property by order granted with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or the judgment creditor. But it is not waste for the person in possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession afterwards during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use it in the same manner in which it was previously used, or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry, or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon, or to use wood or timber on the property thereforee, or for the repair of fences, or for fuel in his family, while he occupies the property.

§ 851. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price paid with interest from the judgment creditor. Such judgment creditor, if the recovery was in consequence of the irregularity, shall thereupon be entitled to a new execution on the judgment, for the price paid on the sale with interest; and for that purpose the judgment shall be deemed valid against the judgment debtor, his personal representatives, heirs, or devisees, but not against a purchaser in good faith, or an encumbrancer, whose title  or encumbrance shall have accrued before a levy on such new execution.

§ 852. When property, liable to an execution against several persons, is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the judgment is levied upon the property of one of them, or one of them pays without a sale more than his proportion, he may compel contribution from the others. And when a judgment is against several, and is upon an obligation of one of them, as security for another, and the surety pays the amount or any part thereof, either by sale of his property or before sale, he may compel repayment from the principal. In such eases the person so paying, or contributing, is entitled to the benefit of the judgment to enforce contribution or repayment, if within ten days after his payment he file with the clerk of the court, where the judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to contribution or repayment. Upon the filing of such notice, the clerk must make an entry thereof in the margin of the docket.

CHAPTER II. PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

When execution returned unsatisfied, order for discovery of property.
When judgment debtor refuses to apply property to satisfy judgment.
Manner of proceeding to examine judgment debtor.
Any debtor may pay execution against his creditor.
Examination of debtors of judgment debtor or of those having property belonging to him.
Witness required to testify.
Compelling party or witnesses to attend. Examinations when to be on oath.
Judge may order property to be applied on execution.
Judge may appoint receiver, and prohibit transfer, &c. of property.
Proceedings upon claim of another party to property, or on denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.
Reference by judge.
Costs of proceeding.
Disobedience of order, how punished.

§ 853. When an execution against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors, in the same judgment, issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he do not reside in this state, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll, or a transcript of a justice’s judgment, is filed, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such return made, is entitled to an order from a judge of the court, or a county judge of the county to which the execution was issued, requiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer, concerning his property, before such judge, or a referee appointed by a judge of the court, at a time and place specified in the order.

§ 854. After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon proof by affidavit; of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof; or county judge, that any judgment debtor has property, which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place, to answer concerning the same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had, for the application of the property of the judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided, upon the return of an execution.

§ 855. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the judge may, upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to his satisfaction that there is danger of the debtor’s leaving the state, or concealing himself, issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where such debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before such judge. Upon being brought before the judge, he may be examined on oath, and ordered to enter into an undertaking with one or more sureties, that he will attend from time to time before the judge or referee, as he shall direct, during the pendency of the proceeding, and until the final determination thereof, and will not in the meantime dispose of any portion of his property, not exempt from execution. In default of entering into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison, by warrant of the judge.

§ 856. After the issuing of execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execution and the sheriff’s receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.

§ 857. After the issuing or return of an execution against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof by affidavit, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any person or corporation, has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding ten dollars, the judge may by an order require such person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place, and answer concerning the same. The judge may also, in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be given to any party to the action, in such manner as may seem to him proper.

§ 858: Witnesses may be required to appear and testify upon any proceeding under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.

§ 859. The party or witness may be required to attend before the judge, or before a referee, appointed by the court or judge. If before a referee, the examination must be taken by the referee, and certified to the judge. All examinations and answers before a judge or referee, under this chapter, must be on oath, except that when a corporation answers, the answer must be on the oath of an officer thereof.

§ 860. The judge may order any property of the Judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment, except that the earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within thirty days next preceding the order, cannot be so applied, when it is made to appear by the debtor’s affidavit, or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor.

§ 861. The judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner and with the like authority, as if the appointment were made by the court. The judge may also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, and any interference therewith.

§ 862. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest in the property, adverse to him, or denies the debt, such interest or debt is recoverable only in an action against such person or corporation, by the receiver: but the judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such property or interest, till a sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver to commence the action, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution. Such order may be modified or vacated, by the judge granting the same, at any time, on such security as he may direct.

§ 863. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee agreed upon or appointed by him, to report the evidence or the facts.

§ 864. The judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to any person so examined, whether a party to the action or not, his charges, and a fixed sum in addition, not exceeding ten dollars, as costs.

§ 865. If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of the judge or referee, duly served, such person, party or witness, may be punished by the judge, as for a contempt. The proceedings thereforee are prescribed in the title of the third part of this code, respecting the punishment of contempts.

TITLE X. OF THE COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Fee bill abolished. Allowances given, termed costs.
When allowed, of course, to plaintifff.
In several actions against parties to the same instrument, but one bill of costs.
When allowed to defendant.
When allowed to either party, in the discretion of the court.
Costs not allowed in action on a judgment, unless brought by leave of court.
Amount of costs allowed in certain cases.
Interest on verdict or report, when allowed.
Cost, how to be inserted in judgment.
Clerk’s fees.
Referees’ fees.
Costs on postponement of trial.
Costs on a motion.
Costs against infant plaintifff.
Costs not allowed when tender has been made.
Costs in an action by or against an execution or administrator, trustee to an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute to sue.
Costs on a review of a decision of an inferior court, in a special proceeding.
Costs in actions by the people.
Costs in actions for the benefit of a corporation.
Costs against assignee of cause of action after action brought.
Costs on a settlement.
Costs in action by plaintifff out of the state. 

§ 866. All statutes, establishing or regulating the costs or fees of attorneys and counsel in civil actions, and all existing rules and provisions of law, restricting or controlling the right of a party to a agree with an attorney, or counsel, for his compensation, are repealed; and hereafter the measure and mode of such compensation must be left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties. But there may be allowed to the prevailing party, certain sums by way of indemnity, for his expenses in the action; which allowances are in this code termed costs.

§ 867. Costs are allowed of course to the plaintifff, upon a judgment in his favor, in the following cases: 1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a claim of title to real property arises on the pleadings, or is certified by the court to have come in question at the trial: 2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property: 3. In the actions of which, according to section 154, a justice’s court has not jurisdiction: 4. in an action for the recovery money, where the plaintifff recovers fifty dollars or more. But in an action for assault, battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction, if the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he can recover no more costs and charges than damages. And in an action to recover the possession of personal property, if the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he can recover no more costs and charges than damages, unless he recover also property, the value of which with the damages amounts to fifty dollars. Such value must be determined by the jury, court or referee, by whom the action is tried.

§ 868. When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writing, or in any other case for the same cause of action, against several parties who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs can be allowed to the plaintifff, in more than one of such actions, which may be at his election, if the parties proceeded against in the other actions were at the commencement of the previous action, openly within this state; but the disbursements of the plaintifff may be allowed to him, as provided in section 874.

§ 869. Costs are allowed of course to the defendant, upon a judgment in his favor, in an action for the recovery of money, where the plaintifff recovers less than fifty dollars, and also in the other actions mentioned in section 867.

§ 870. In other actions, costs may be allowed or not, and if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the court. When there are several defendants, not united in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers, and the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the court may award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor, or any of them. And in the following cases the costs of an appeal are in the discretion of the court; 1. Where a new trial is ordered: 2. Where a judgment is modified.

§ 871. Costs can not be allowed to the plaintifff, in an action upon a judgment of a court of this state, between the same parties, unless such action was brought with previous leave of the court for cause shown; but this prohibition does not apply to an action upon the judgment of a justice’s court, brought in another county, or brought in the same county, in case of the summons not having been served on all the defendants, or the death of a party, or the death, resignation, incapacity to act or removal from the county of the justice, or the loss of his docket.

§ 872. When allowed, costs are as follows: 1. To the plaintifff, for all proceedings before notice of trial (including judgment when entered;) In an action arising on obligation for the recovery of money only, seven dollars; in another action twelve dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven dollars; 2. To the defendant; for all proceedings before notice of trial, five dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven dollars; 3. For the trial of issues of law, if separate from the trial of issues of fact, to the plaintifff, fifteen dollars; to the defendant, twelve dollars: 4. For the trial of the issues of fact, if separate from the trial of the issues of law, to the plaintifff, fifteen dollars; to the defendant twelve dollars: 5. For the trial of the issues of fact and of law, when tried at the same time, to the plaintifff, twenty dollars; to the defendant fifteen dollars: 6. To either party on appeal, excepting to the court of appeals, before argument, fifteen dollars: for argument thirty dollars: but this provision does not apply to appeals in the cases mentioned in section : 7. To either party on appeal to the court of appeals; before argument, twenty-five dollars; for argument, fifty dollars: 8. To either party, for every circuit or term not exceeding three, at which the cause necessarily remains on the calendar not reached or postponed, excluding that at which it is tried or heard, ten dollars. In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages upon real property, or for the partition of real property, the plaintifff is also entitled to the additional allowance of five per cent on the first five hundred dollars, and one per cent on all over that sum, upon the price of the property sold, or the value of the property, partitioned, such value to be determined by the referees making the partition. But such allowance can in no case exceed two hundred dollars.

§ 873. When the judgment is for the recovery of money, interest from the time of the verdict or report, until judgment be finally entered, must be computed by the clerk, and added thereto.

§ 874. The clerk must insert in the entry of judgment on the application of the prevailing party, upon two days notice to the other, the sum of the allowances for costs, as above provided, and the necessary disbursements, including the fees of officers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the necessary expenses of commissions, the compensation of referees, and the expense of printing the papers upon any appeal, which disbursements are in this code also termed charges. The disbursements must be stated in detail, and verified by affidavit, which must be filed. Whenever costs are allowed by this code, the charges also are allowed, and when costs are not allowed, the charges are not allowed, except where express provision is made thereforee.

§ 875. The clerk may receiver, On every trial, from the party bringing it on, one dollar: On entering judgment, fifty cents except in courts where the clerks receive salaries, and in such courts one dollar: On docketing a judgment rendered by a justice in his county, and filing a transcript thereof, twenty-five cents, including execution when issued. He can receive no other fee, for any services whatever in a civil action, except for copies of papers, at the rate of five cents for every hundred words.

§ 876. The fees of referees are three dollars to each, for every day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties may agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation and thereupon such rate must be allowed.

§ 877. When an application is made to a court or referees, to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed, as the condition of granting the postponement.

§ 878. Costs may be allowed on an original motion, or on an appeal from an order, in the discretion of the court, not exceeding ten dollars. And when costs are ordered against a party, upon a motion, proceedings on his part may be stayed until payment thereof.

§ 879. When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintifff, the guardian, by whom he appeared in the action is responsible for them, and judgment thereforee may be entered, against both the guardian and infant.

§ 880. When, in an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant alleges in his answer, that, before the commencement of the action, he tendered to the plaintifff, the full amount to which he was entitled, and thereupon deposits in court for the plaintifff, the amount so tendered, and the allegation be found true, the plaintifff cannot recover costs, but must pay costs to the defendant.

§ 881. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered as in an action by and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right, but such costs must by the judgment be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the court direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in the action or defense. But no costs are recoverable in such action, if brought without leave of the surrogate, against an executor or administrator within one year after the death of the person whom he represents, not after that time, unless it appear that the demand was first presented to the executor or administrator, verified by oath, and payment demanded.

§ 882. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a special proceeding, is brought before the supreme court for review, such proceeding is for all purposes of costs, to be deemed an action at issue, on a question of law, from the time the same is brought into the, supreme court, costs thereon, may be awarded and collected in web; manner as the court may direct: according to the nature of the case.

§ 883. In all civil actions prosecuted in the name of the people of this state, by an officer duly authorized for that purpose, the people are liable for costs in the same cases, and to the same extent, as private parties. If a private person be joined with the people as plaintifff, he is liable tin the first instance for the defendant’s costs; which cannot be recovered of the people, till, after execution issued thereforee against such private party and returned unsatisfied. And when costs are awarded, and recoverable against the people, payment, thereof must be made by the comptroller, upon the production of proper evidence thereof.

§ 884. In an action prosecuted in the name of the people of this state for the recovery of money or property, or to establish a right or claim, for the benefit of any county, city, town, village, corporation or person, costs awarded against the plaintifff, must by the judgment be made a charge against the party for whose benefit the action was prosecuted, and not against the people.

§ 885. In an action in which the cause of action, after the commencement of the action, by assignment, or in any other manner, becomes the property of a person not a party to the action, and the prosecution or defense is thereafter continued, such person is liable for the costs, in the same manner as if he were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by order.

§ 886. Upon the settlement, before judgment, of any action mentioned in section 867, no greater sum can be demanded from the defendant as costs, than at the rates prescribed by section 872.

§ 887. The attorney of a plaintifff, who resides out of the state, or is a foreign corporation, against whom costs are awarded to a defendant, is responsible to, such defendant thereforee, to an amount not exceeding two hundred dollars. And the attorney neglecting to pay the same, after due proceedings against him, may be removed by the court. But he may relieve himself from responsibility, at any time before judgment, by filing an undertaking, for the payment to the defendant of the costs and charges, executed by a sufficient surety.

TITLE XI. ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

Actions to determined conflicting claims to real property and other provisions relating to actions concerning real property.
Actions for the foreclosure of mortgages.
Actions for nuisance, waste, trespass on Indian lands, and willful trespass on other real property.
Actions for the partition of real property.
Actions respecting corporations.
Actions by or against executors, administrators, legates, heirs, or devisees.
Actions on official securities, and for fines and forfeitures.
Actions by and against certain public officers, and public bodies.
Actions to vacate charters, letters patent, and to prevent the usurpation of an office or franchise.
Actions in justices’ courts. 

CHAPTER I. ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO REAL PROPERTY, AND OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY.

An action allowed to determine an adverse claim to real property.
If the defendant disclaim no costs allowed.
In an action by one tenant in common against another, a denial of the right must be shown.
When the right has terminated during the pendency of the action.
New trial may be had in actions to recover real property.
After a second trial court may allow a third.
How judgment entered after new trial.
May recover profits only for six years.
A survey of property in dispute allowed.
Order for the survey. 
A mortgage not a conveyance.
Injunction to prevent waste after sale.
Purchaser of land on execution, may recover for injury after sale.
A sale of land pending an action does not affect rights.
An action for possession of land equivalent to re-entry, but tenant may redeem. 

§ 888. An action may be brought by any person in possession, by himself, or his tenant, of real property, against any person, who claims an estate or interest therein, adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate, or interest.

§ 889. If the defendant, in such action, disclaim in his answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken against him without answer, the plaintifff cannot recover costs.

§ 890. In an action, for the recovery of dower before admeasurement, or by a tenant in common, or joint tenant of real property, against a co-tenant, the plaintifff must show, in addition to the evidence of his right, that the defendant either denied the plaintifff’s right, or did some act amounting to such denial.

§ 891. In an action for the recovery of specific real or personal property, where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the action was commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment must be according to the fact, and the plaintifff may recover damages for withholding the property.

§ 892. Any person, against whom a judgment for the recovery of specific real property is rendered may, within six months after written notice of the judgment, upon payment of all costs and damages recovered thereby, demand another trial, by notice in writing to the adverse party, or to his attorney in the action, and thereupon the action may be brought to trial by either party.

§ 893. If on a second trial, as provided in the last section, judgment be to the same effect, as on the first, no further trial can be had, unless the court, in its discretion, on motion by the party as to whom the judgment last rendered is less favorable than the first, order a third trial.

§ 894. The judgment given on a trial, to be had under the last two sections, must be annexed to the judgment roll of the former trial, and the judgment last given shall be the final determination of the rights of the parties. If a prior judgment shall have been executed, restitution must be ordered, as the last judgment may determine the rights of the parties, and the same may be enforced by execution.

§ 895. Damages for withholding the property recovered, can in no case exceed the fair value of the property, (exclusive of the use of improvements, made by the defendant,) for a period not exceeding six years; and when permanent improvements have been made by a defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title, adversely to the claims of the plaintifff, in good faith, the value thereof must be allowed as a set-off against the damages of the plaintifff, for the use of the property.

§ 896. The court, in which an action is pending for the recovery of real property, may on motion, upon notice, by either party, and for cause shown, grant an order, allowing to such party the right to enter upon the property, and make survey and measurement thereof for the purposes of the action.

§ 897. The order must describe the property, and a copy thereof must be served on the owner, or occupant, and thereupon such party may enter upon the property with necessary surveyors and assistants, and make such survey and measurements, but if any unnecessary injury be done to the property he is liable thereforee.

§ 898. A mortgage of real property is not to be deemed a conveyance, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to recover possession of the real property, without a foreclosure.

§ 899. The court may, by injunction, on cause shown, restrain the party in possession, from doing any act to the injury of real property, during the summary foreclosure of a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on execution, before a conveyance.

§ 900. When real property shall have been sold on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person, who may have succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to the property, by the tenant in possession, after the sale, and before possession is delivered under the conveyance.

§ 901. An action for the recovery of real property against a person in possession, or in the receipt of the rents or profits thereof, can not be prejudiced by any alienation, made by such person, either before or after the commencement of the action; but in such case, if the defendant have no property sufficient to satisfy the damages recovered, for the Withholding of possession, such damages may be collected by action against the purchaser.

§ 902. When in case of a lease of real property, and the failure of the tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a subsisting right to re-enter for such failure, he may bring an action to recover possession of the property; and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent and a re-entry upon the property. But if at any time before the expiration of six months after possession obtained by the plaintifff, on recovery in the action, the lessee, or his successor in interest as to the whole or part of the property, pay to the plaintifff, or bring into court, the amount of rent then in arrear with interest, and the costs of the action, and perform the other covenants on the part of the lessee, he may be restored to the possession and hold the property according to the terms of the original lease.

CHAPTER II. ACTIONS FOR THE FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES.

Actions for foreclosure of mortgages.
Where real property must be sold.
Tow actions for same debt not allowed.
Surplus on sale.
Sufficient to satisfy debt only to be sold.

§ 903. In an action for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage of real property, or the satisfaction of a lien or encumbrance upon property, real or personal the court has power, by its judgment, to direct a sale of the property, or any part of it; the application of the proceeds to the payment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien, or encumbrance with costs; and execution, for the balance, against any party liable thereforee, as principal, surety, or otherwise.

§ 904. Real property adjudged to be sold, must be sold in the county where it lies, by the sheriff of the county, or by a referee, appointed by the court for that purpose, and thereupon the sheriff or referee must execute a conveyance to the purchaser, which conveyance passes the title of the parties to the action. And upon the sale of property, real or personal, pursuant to a judgment, the court may enforce the delivery of possession thereof to the purchaser.

§ 905. When a debt is secured by mortgage of real or personal property, or a lien or encumbrance thereon, separate actions respecting the debt and the security cannot be allowed, but the creditor must include in one action all his claims upon both.

§ 906. If there be surplus money, remaining after payment of the amount mentioned in section 903, the court may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and in the mean time, may direct it to be deposited in court.

§ 907. If the debt, for which the mortgage, lien or encumbrance is held, be not all due, so soon as sufficient of the property has been sold to pay the amount due, with costs the sale must cease; and afterwards as often as more becomes due, for principal or interest, the court may, on motion, order more to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold in portions, without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered to be sold in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs be paid, there being a rebate of interest, where such rebate is proper.

CHAPTER III. ACTIONS FOR NUISANCE, WASTE, TRESPASS ON INDIAN LANDS, AND WILLFUL TRESPASS ON OTHER REAL PROPERTY.

Nuisance defined, action thereforee.
Waste defined, action thereforee.
What judgment allowed.
Damages for willfully cutting trees.
When damages mitigated.
Cutting timber for highway.
Damages for forcible eviction.
Trespass on Indian lands.
Who may prosecute.
To whom damages paid.
Security for costs must be given.

§ 908. Anything, which is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance and the subject of an action. Such action may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance; and by the judgment, the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.

§ 909. If a guardian, tenant by the curtesy, in dower, for life or years, joint tenant or tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person aggrieved by the waste, may bring an action against him thereforee, in which action, there may be judgment for treble damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party offending, and eviction from the property.

§ 910. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction can only be given, in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant in possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion is adjudged in the action, to be equal to the value of the tenant’s estate or unexpired term, or to have been done in malice.

§ 911. Every person who cuts down, or carries off any wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdles or otherwise injures any tree, timber or shrub on the land of another person, or on the street or highway, in front of any person’s house, village or city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on the commons, or public grounds, of any city or town, or on the street or highway, in front thereof, without lawful authority, is liable to the owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the amount of damages, which may be assessed thereforee, in a civil action, in any court having jurisdiction, except as provided in the next section.

§ 912. If upon the trial of such action, it appear, that the trespass was casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had probable cause to believe, that the land, on which the trespass was committed, was his own, or that of the person in whose service, or by whose direction, the act was done, judgment must be given for only the single damages assessed in the action.

§ 913. Nothing in the last two sections authorizes the recovery of more than the just value of the timber, taken from uncultivated wood land, for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the land or adjoining it.

§ 914. If a person be put out of real property in a forcible manner, without lawful authority, or, being so put out, be afterwards kept out by force, recover damages thereforee, judgment may be entered for three times the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.

§ 915. In case of forcible entry or forcible detention, if a person claiming in good faith, under color of title, to be rightfully in possession, so put out or kept out, recover damages thereforee, judgment may be entered in his favor, for three times the amount, at which the actual damages are assessed.

§ 916. For trespass, by any person other than an Indian, on lands possessed by Indians, an action may be brought in the name of the people of this state.

§ 917. Such action must be prosecuted by the district attorney of the county where the lands are situated, or by an attorney to be designated for that purpose, by the county judge.

§ 918. The damages recovered in such action, after defraying the expenses of the prosecution, must be distributed among the Indians occupying such lands, according to their respective interests therein, to be determined by the county judge, on summary application before him.

§ 919. Before such action can be commenced, security for costs must be given, satisfactory to the county judge, or to the supervisor of the town where the lands are situated, by an undertaking in writing to pay to the defendant, the costs which may be adjudged against the plaintifff.

CHAPTER IV. ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

Action for partition of real property allowed.
To whom summons is addressed.
Contents of complaint.
Creditors having general liens may be parties.
Liens on undivided shares.
Unknown owners made parties.
Rights of parties may be put in issue.
Order may allow sale or partition.
Manner of making partition.
Referees to make report.
Effect of confirmation of report.
Tenants in dower, &c., not affected.
Expenses of referees and surveyor.
Sale, when allowed.
When part only is sold, life estate.
Before sale, creditors having specific liens.
Certificate as to general liens.
Court may order reference as to liens.
Notice to creditors to make proof.
Referee to report priority.
Creditor may have report corrected.
Proceeds of sale, how applied.
Sale not to be delayed by reference.
Referees may deliver securities to parties.
Manner of litigating as to claims.
Sales to be at auction.
Terms of sale to be ordered.
Separate securities allowed.
Estate for life, how disposed of.
What passes by sale.
Sum in gross allowed for dower, &c.
Investment, if not consent given.
Proportion of proceeds ascertained.
Unknown tenants in dower, &c.
Investment for inchoate right of dower.
Dower, how released.
Terms of sale to be published.
Who may not purchase.
Referees to report sale.
Report when confirmed.
Receipt of encumbrances.
Deeds to be recorded.
Effect of conveyances.
Proceeds, when invested.
Investment, how made.
Securities in name of parties or clerk.
Clerk to collect interest.
Partition made equal by compensation.
Infant’s share on sale to guardian.
Insane person’s share.
Consent to partition by guardian.
State may be party.
Cost of partition allowed. 

§ 920. When several persons hold, and are in possession of real property, as joint tenants or as tenants in common, in which one or more of them have an estate of inheritance, or for life or years, an action may be brought by one or more of such persons, for a partition thereof, according to the respective rights of the persons interested therein, and for a sale of such property, or a part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made, without great prejudice to the owners.

§ 921. The summons must be addressed by name to all the joint tenants, and tenants in common, who are known, and generally to all persons unknown, having or claiming an interest in the property.

§ 922. The interests of all persons in the property, whether such persons be known or unknown, must be set forth in the complaint specifically and particularly, as far as known to the plaintifff, and if any one or more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the parties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend upon executory devise, or the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties can not be named, that fact must be set forth in the complaint.

§ 923. The plaintifff may at his option, make creditors, having a specific or general lien upon the property or upon any particular portion thereof, parties to the action.

§ 924. When the lien is on an undivided interest or estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition made, is thenceforth a charge only on the share assigned to such party; but such share must be first charged with its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such lien.

§ 925. If a party having a share or interest unknown, or either of the known parties reside out of the state or cannot be found therein, and such fact be made to appear by affidavit, the summons may be served on such absent or unknown party, by publication, directed by the court or judge, in the manner prescribed by sections 629 and 630. When publication is made, the summons, as published, must be accompanied by a brief description of the property, which is the subject of the action.

§ 926. The rights of the several parties, plaintifffs, as well as defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by such action; and where a defendant fails to answer, or where a sale of the premises is necessary, the title must be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of the court, before the judgment for partition or sale is given.

§ 927. If it be alleged in the complaint, and established by evidence, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property or any part of it is so situated, that partition cannot be made, without great prejudice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof, and for that purpose may appoint one or more referees. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being made, it must order a partition, according to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the court, and appoint three referees thereforee; and must designate the portion to remain undivided, for the owners, whose interests remain unknown or not ascertained.

§ 928. In making the partition, referees must divide the property, and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective rights of the parties, as determined by the court, designating the several portions by proper landmarks, and may employ an surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid them therein.

§ 929. The referees must make report of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner of executing their trust, describing the property divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular description of each share.

§ 930. The court may confirm or set aside the report, and if necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the report being confirmed, judgment must be rendered, that such partition be effectual forever, which judgment is binding and conclusive: 1. On all the parties named therein, and their legal representatives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided, as owners in fee, or as tenants for years, or as entitled to the reversion, remainder or inheritance of such property, after the termination of a particular estate therein: or who, by any contingency, may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have an interest in-an individual share thereof; as tenants for years, for life, by the curtesy, or in dower: 2. On all persons interested in the property, who may be unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of the application for partition by the publication directed, by section 925: and, 3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or either of them.

§ 931. But such judgment and partition cannot affect tenants, or persons having claims as tenants, in dower, by the curtesy or for life, to the whole of the property, which is the subject of the partition; nor can such judgment and partition preclude any person, except such as are specified in the last section, from claiming, title to the property in question, or from controverting, the title of the parties between whom the partition is made.

§ 932. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed must be ascertained and allowed by the court; and the amount thereof together with the fees allowed by law to the referees, must be paid by the plaintifff, and may be allowed as part of the charges.

§ 933. If the referees report to the court, that the property, of which partition shall have been directed, or any distinct portion thereof, is so situated, that a partition thereof cannot be made, without great prejudice to the owners; and the court is satisfied that such report is correct, it may thereupon, by an order, direct the referees to sell the property, or portion so situated.

§ 934. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold, if there be an estate by the curtesy, in dower, or for life or years, in an undivided share of the property, the whole of such estate may be set off in any part of the property not ordered to be sold.

§ 935. Before the making of an order for sale, where the creditors having specific liens have not been made parties, the court, on the motion of either party, must direct the plaintifff to amend his complaint, if necessary, by making every person having a specific lien on the undivided interest or estate of any of the parties by mortgage, devise or otherwise, a party to the action.

§ 936. The plaintifff must produce to the court the certificate of the clerk of the county where the property is situated, showing whether there are any general liens by judgment upon the property, or any part thereof.

§ 937. Unless it be made to appear to the court by the certificate of the clerk pursuant to the last section, that there are outstanding no general liens on the property, or on any share or parcel thereof, the court must order a reference to ascertain them.

§ 938. If it appear by the certificate that there are outstanding of record such general liens, the court must appoint a referee to ascertain whether such liens have been paid, or if not paid, what amount remains due or secured by them respectively, and the order of priority in which they are entitled to be paid out of the property.

§ 939. The plaintifff must cause a notice to be served, at least ten days before the time for appearance, on each person having such general lien, to appear before the referee at a specified time and place, to make proof by his own or otherwise, of the true amount due, or to become due, contingently or absolutely, on his judgment.

§ 940. The referee must receive the evidence, and report, the names of the creditors whose liens are established, the amounts thereof, and their priority respectively, and if such liens are contingent he must specify them. He must attach to his report the proof of service of the notices, and the affidavits and copies of other evidence before him.

§ 941. Any creditor having a lien, and being dissatisfied with the report of the referee, may move the court to correct it, at any time before distribution of the proceeds of sale, on ten days’ notice to the plaintifff and the other persons in whose favor liens are reported, and thereupon the court may correct the report on the evidence reported, or if necessary, may order a new reference of the whole or of any part of the matter. When confirmed, the report is conclusive of the rights of the several creditors on whom notice was served.

§ 942. The proceeds of the sale of the encumbered property, must be applied under the direction of the court, as follows: 1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action: 2. To pay the costs of the reference: 3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their order of priority, by payment of the sums due and to become due, the amount remaining due to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment: 4. The residue, among the owners of the property sold, according to their respective shares therein.

§ 943. The proceedings to ascertain the amount of encumbrances, and to determine their priority as above provided, or those herein authorized to determine the rights of parties, to funds paid into court, must not delay the sale, not affect any other party, whose rights are not involved in such proceedings.

§ 944. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the referees, or any part thereof, may be distributed by them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the court so directs. But in case no direction be given, all such proceeds and securities must be paid into court, or deposited as required by law, or directed by the court.

§ 945. When the proceeds of: sales of any shares or parcels, belonging to persons, who have become parties to the action, and who are known, are paid into court, the action may be continued as between such parties, for the determination of their respective claims thereto, which must be ascertained and-adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be taken, in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and the court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law in controversy, by pleadings, as in an original action.

§ 946. All sales of real property, made by referees under this chapter, must be made by public auction to the highest bidder, upon notice, published in the manner required for the sale of real property on execution. The notice must state the terms of sale, and if the property or any part of it is to be sold, subject to a prior estate, charge or specific lien, that must be stated in the notice.

§ 947. The court must, in the order for sale, direct the terms of credit which may be allowed, for the purchase money, of any portion of the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit, and for that portion of which the purchase money is required, by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants, parties out of the state, or tenants in dower, or by the curtesy, or for life or years, when the estate of such tenants is ordered to be sold.

§ 948. The referees may take separate mortgages and other securities, for the whole or convenient portions of the purchase money, or such parts of the property as are directed by the court to be sold on credit in the name of the clerk of the court and his successors in office, and for the shares of any known owner of full age, in the name of such owner.

§ 949. When the estate of a tenant in dower, or by the curtesy, or for life or years, in the whole or any part of the property in question has been admitted by the parties, or ascertained by the court, to be existing at the time of the order for sale, and the person entitled to such estate, has been made a party to the action, such estate may be first set off out of any part of the property, and a sale make of such parcel, subject to the prior unsold estate of such tenant therein, But if in the judgment of the court, a due regard to the interests of all the parties, require that such estate be also sold the sale may be so ordered.

§ 950. If a sale of the property, including such estate, be ordered, the estate and interest of every such tenant or person passes thereby; and the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, shall hold the property discharged from all claims, by virtue of such estate or interest, whether the same be to the individual share of a joint tenant, or tenant in common, or to the whole or any part of the property sold.

§ 951. The persons entitled to such estate in dower, tenancy by the curtesy, or tenancy for life or years, whose estate shall have been sold, are entitled to receive such sum in gross, as may be deemed upon principles of law applicable to annuities, a reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and which the person so entitled may consent to accept instead thereof; by an instrument under seal, duly acknowledged or proved, in in same manner as deeds for the purpose of record.

§ 952. If such consent be not given, at or before the report of sale, the court must ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be invested, for the benefit of the person entitled to such estate, in dower, by the curtesy, or for life; and must order the same to be deposited in court for that purpose.

§ 953. The proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, must be ascertained and determined in the several cases as follows: 1. If an estate in dower be included in the order of sale, its proportion must be one-third of the proceeds of the sale of the property, or of the sale of the individual share in such property, upon which the claim of dower existed: 2. If an estate by the curtesy, or other estate for life or years, be included in the order of sale, its proportion must be the whole proceeds of the sale of the property, or of the sale of the undivided share thereof, in which such estate may be: And in all cases, the proportion of the expenses of proceedings must be deducted, from the proceeds of the sale.

§ 954. If the persons entitled to such estate in dower by the curtesy, or for life or years, be unknown, the court must provide for the protection of their rights in the same manner, as far as may be, as if they were known and had appeared.

§ 955. In all cases of sales in partition, when it appears that a married woman has an inchoate right of dower in any of the property divided or sold, or that any person has a vested or contingent future right or estate therein, the court must ascertain and settle the proportional value of such inchoate, contingent or vested right .or estate, according to the principles of law applicable to annuities and survivorships, and must direct such proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured, or paid over in such manner, as to protect the rights and interests of the parties.

§ 956. A married woman may release such right, interest or estate, to her husband, and acknowledge the same in the manner required by law, in respect to the acknowledgment of deeds by married women, before any officer authorized to take acknowledgment of deeds, or if executed out of this state, before any officer residing in the state, district or county, where the acknowledgment is made, who is "authorized to take the acknowledgment of deeds, to be recorded in this state. Upon the release, the share of the proceeds of the sale, arising from her contingent interest, must be paid to her husband, and the release, or the payment, investment, or otherwise securing of a share of the proceeds of a sale, shall be a bar against such right, estate, or claim.

§ 957. The terms of the sale must be made known at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct farms, or lots, they must be sold separately.

§ 958. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of either of them, can be interested in the purchase; nor can a guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real property, being the subject of the action, except for the benefit of the infant. All sales contrary to the provisions of this section are void.

§ 959. After completing the sale, the referees must report the same to the court, with a description of the different parcels of land sold to each purchaser, the name of the purchaser, the price paid or secured, the terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities if any taken. The report must be filed in the office of the clerk of the county, where the property is situated.

§ 960. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order must be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances and take securities pursuant to such sale; which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order may also give directions to them respecting the disposition of the proceeds of the sale.

§ 961. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him, and must also pay over to the plaintifff or his attorney, and take his receipt for, the costs and charges of the action.

§ 962. The conveyances must be recorded in the county, where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar against all persons interested in the property in any way, who shall have been named as parties in the action, and against all such parties and persons as were unknown, if the summons have been served as is directed by section 925, and against all persons claiming from them or either of them.

§ 963. The conveyances shall also be a bar against all persons having specific or general liens or encumbrances by judgment, on any undivided share or interest in the premises sold, who shall have been served with notice as prescribed by section 939; and also against all persons having specific liens on any undivided share or interest therein, who shall have been made parties to the action. But no creditor having such specific lien can be affected by the sale or conveyance unless he has been made party.

§ 964. When there are proceeds of sale, belonging to an unknown owner, or to a person without the state, who has no legal representative within it, or when there are proceeds arising from the sale of an estate, subject to the prior estate of a tenant in dower, or by the curtesy, or tenant for life, or years, which are paid into court, or deposited with an officer by order of the court, the same must be invested in securities on interest, for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.

§ 965. When security for the proceeds of sale is taken, or when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it must be done, except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk of the county, where the papers are filed, and his successors in office, who shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the parties interested, subject to the order of the court.

§ 966. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing under their hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled, or when such shares and proportions have been previously adjudged by the court, such securities must be taken in the names, of, and payable to, the parties respectively entitled thereto, and must be delivered to such parties upon their receipt thereforee. Such agreement, and receipt must be returned and filed with the clerk.

§ 967. The clerk, in whose name a security is taken, or by whom an investment is made, and his successors in office, must receive the interest and principal, as it becomes due, and, apply and invest the same, as the court may direct, and must file in his office all securities taken, and keep an account in a book provided and kept for that purpose in the clerk’s office, free for inspection by all persons of investments, and monies received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

§ 968. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between the parties, according to, their respective rights, without prejudice to the rights and interests of some of them, the court, may adjudge compensation to be made, by one party to another for equality of partition, But such compensation cannot be required to be made to others, by owners unknown nor by infants, unless, in the case of an infant, it appear that he has personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby.

§ 969. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the sale may be paid by the referees making the sale, to his general guardian, or to the special guardian appointed for him in the action, if such general or special guardian, before the payment of such share into court, shall have given the security required by section 550.

§ 970. The committee who may be entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property shall have been solid, may receive, in behalf of such person, his share of the proceeds of such real property, from the referees, if the committee, before the money is paid into court, shall have executed, with sufficient sureties, an undertaking, approved by a judge of the court, or if the action be in the supreme court, by a county judge, that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just account to the person entitled, or to his legal representative.

§ 971. The general guardian of an infant, and the committee entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is entitled to real estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner, to authorize his being made party to an action for the partition thereof; may consent to a partition without action, and agree upon the share to be set off to such infant, or other person entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf, to the owners of the shares of the parts to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order of the court.

§ 972. The people of this state may be made a party to an action, for the sale or partition of real property, in which case the summons and complaint must be served upon the attorney general, who must appear on behalf of the people.

§ 973. The costs of partition, including fees of referees and other disbursements, must be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in proportion to their respective interests therein, and may be included and specified in the judgment. In that case, they are a lien on the several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by execution against the parties separately. Where, however, a litigation arises between some of the parties only the court may require, the expense of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

CHAPTER V. ACTIONS RESPECTING CORPORATIONS.

The kind of corporation included.
Foreign corporations may not sue when an act is forbidden.
Ten per cent interest on bank bills not paid.
Injunction to restrain corporation.
Jurisdiction of supreme court over corporations—their officers and business.
Who may make application.
Debts to be paid ratable in case of insolvency.
When a corporation deemed insolvent.
Insolvent corporations may be enjoined.
Stockholders personally liable may be joined as defendants with the corporation.
Or stockholders may be sued separately afterwards.
Return of execution unsatisfied evidence, of insolvency.
Stockholders compelled to make contribution.
Multiplication of suits not allowed.
Actions against foreign corporations.

§ 974. This chapter embraces all corporations, including in such designation, all associations having any corporate rights, whether created by special acts of legislation, or under general laws; except that no part of the chapter, other than the next section, extends to a municipal, or religious corporation, or to a corporation for a public library, a cemetery, an academy, or a society for literary or charitable purposes, or for the encouragement of the fine arts, unless such corporation has by its charter, or the law of its organization, shares or stock, from which, in some contingency, a dividend may be made.

§ 975. A foreign corporation cannot maintain an action in this state, upon an obligation or liability, arising out of, or in consideration of an act, which is contrary to the law or policy of this state, or which is thereby forbidden, in respect to corporations or associations therein, whose general business is similar to that of such foreign corporation.

§ 976. When judgment is rendered against a bank, or banking association, for any bill or other contract, for the absolute payment of money, payment of which has been refused, on presentment at the bank, or place of business of the defendant, the plaintifff may recover interest, at the rate of ten percent a year, from the time: of such refusal, unless in the act of incorporation, a different rate of interest, or measure of damages, has been prescribed.

§ 977. A corporation may be restrained by injunction, provisional or final, from, exercising any function or doing any act not allowed by law. Such injunction may be granted upon the application of the attorney general, or other officer authorized by statute, on satisfactory evidence that the corporation has usurped, exercised or claimed a franchise, privilege, or other corporate right, not authorized by law, or has done or suffered some other act, by which its corporate existence or, rights have become forfeited, or may by authority of law, be terminated.

§ 978. The supreme court has jurisdiction over all corporations, and the directors, managers, trustees and other officers thereof, 1. To compel an officer to account for his official conduct in the management and disposition of its business or property: 2. To suspend an officer from exercising his functions, when it appears that he has abused his trust: 3. To compel the payment, or delivery, by an officer to such corporation, or to its creditors, of any money or property of such corporation, or the avails thereof, in his hands, or to pay the value of, or to deliver over, any property he may have -misapplied, or wasted, or acquired to himself, or withheld, in violation of his duty: 4. To remove an officer from his office on proof of gross misconduct: 5. To direct a new election to be held, to supply a vacancy, occasioned by such removal or otherwise: 6. In case such vacancy cannot be filled by the corporation, then to report the facts to the governor, who is hereby authorized to fill it: 7. To set aside alienations of property made by an officer contrary to the provisions of law, or for purposes foreign to the business of the corporation, in cases where it may be done without injustice to the purchaser or holder: 8. To prevent the improper alienation or disposition of property, where there is reason to apprehend it will be made. But this jurisdiction does not deprive any corporate body, or public officer, of visitatorial power over any corporation.

§ 979. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section can only be exercised on the application of an authorized public officer, or of a creditor or stockholder, and the proceedings must be by action, in all proper cases; in other cases by motion.

§ 980. Whenever the affairs of a corporation are closed by the supreme court, (except on a judgment, obtained by a creditor for the satisfaction of a debt,) the creditors are entitled to be paid ratably in proportion to the amount of their respective demands, as ascertained under the direction of the court, except, that, in case of the insolvency of a bank or banking association, the bill holders thereof are entitled to preference in payment over other creditors.

§ 981. A corporation may be adjudged to have forfeited its corporate rights, in either of the following cases: 1. When it has for one year neglected to pay its notes, or other evidences of debt, or has, for that period, suspended its ordinary and lawful business: 2. When, having banking powers, or authority to make loans on pledges or deposits, or to make insurance, it violates any of the provisions of the act under which it is incorporated, or of any other law.

§ 982. Any corporation mentioned in the last section, may be restrained by injunction from the further exercise of its corporate rights, and from receiving, paying, transferring, or delivering any money or other property, until the court otherwise order; and in that case, a receiver of the corporate property may be appointed. Such injunction may be granted in an action brought by the attorney general, in behalf of the state, to close the business of the corporation, or by a creditor or stockholder, in an action to have such forfeiture adjudged.

§ 983. If the action be brought by a creditor of a corporation, whose directors, officers or stockholders are, by law, personally liable for its debts, either absolutely or in any contingency, they may be made parties to the action, either at its commencement or subsequently, for the purpose of enforcing such liability.

§ 984. When a judgment has been rendered in such action, whether brought by the attorney general, or by a stockholder or creditor and the directors, officers or stockholders are personally liable for the debts, and have not been made parties, any creditor may commence an action, founded upon such judgment, to enforce the liability; and in such action, the former judgment is conclusive evidence of the matters therein adjudged.

§ 985. Whenever an execution, issued on a judgment against a corporation, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, by the sheriff of the county, where the principal office or place of business of the corporation is situated, and whenever a corporation is adjudged to have forfeited its corporate rights, the court must cause its affairs to be closed, its debts collected, its property converted into money, and its creditors paid in proportion to the amount of their respective debts, in the order provided in a case of a voluntary dissolution of a corporation, except that the bill-holders of an insolvent bank or banking association, must be preferred, as provided in section 980.

§ 986. When the property of the corporation is insufficient to discharge its debts, the court may compel each stockholder to pay any amount, that may remain unpaid, on the shares of stock held by him, or so much thereof, as is necessary to satisfy the debts, and when the officers or stockholders are personally liable for the debts, and the property of the corporation, together with the amount unpaid on the stock, is insufficient to discharge its debts, the court may compel contribution from the officers or stockholders, who may be liable to satisfy the balance of the debts, from each according to his liability.

§ 987. In any proceeding, pursuant to this chapter, to close the affairs of a corporation, the court may, on application of a stockholder, officer or creditor, restrain further proceedings by any creditor, in an action against the corporation, so far as may be proper, in order to prevent the waste of the funds by unnecessary litigation; and may by a notice, served or published as the court may direct, require all creditors to present and prove their claims, or become parties to the action, within a reasonable time, or be precluded from the benefit of any distribution, which may be made before such claim is proved.

§ 988. An action against a corporation, created by, or under the laws of, any other state, government or country, and having property in this state, or an agency established therein, may he brought in the supreme court, the superior court of the city of New-York, or the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, in the following cases: 1. By a resident of this state, for any cause of action: 2. By a plaintifff not a resident of this state, when the contract, on which the action is brought, was made or delivered in this state, or when any other cause of action has arisen, or the subject of the action is situated, within this state.

CHAPTER VI. ACTIONS BY OR AGAINST EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS, LEGATEES, HEIRS OR DEVISEES.

A cause of action for injury to person does not survive.
Other causes of action do survive.
When death ensues an injury.
Representatives regarded as one person.
Assets not presumed on failure to answer.
Statute of limitations in case of death.
Executor of executor not to sue, as such.
Real property of deceased not affected by judgment against executors, and cannot be sold thereon.
Effect of inventory as evidence.
Executor in his own wrong not liable.
Next of kin who have received distribution, liable for debts.
Each liable for the whole amount received.
Next of kin may compel contribution.
Legatees, when liable for debts.
Costs in action against next of kin and legatees.
Recovery exonerates from further liability.
Heirs and devisees liable for debts.
In what cases heirs liable, and to what extent.
When debt expressly charged by will.
Preference of debts.
No preference between debts of same class.
Defense that there are debts of a prior class.
Judgment for excess only, over prior debts.
Payment of prior debt to be allowed.

§ 989. A cause of action, arising out of an injury to the person, dies with the person of either party, except as provided in section 991.

§ 990. All other causes of action, by one against another, whether arising on contract or not, survive to the personal representatives of the former, and against the personal representatives of the latter. Therefore the executors or administrators may maintain the action against the party, against whom the cause of action accrued, or after his death against his representatives.

§ 991. When the death of one is caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, the personal representatives of the former may maintain an action thereforee against the latter, if the former might have maintained an action, had he lived, against the latter, for an injury caused by the same act or omission. But the action must be commenced, within two years after the act or omission, by which the death was caused; the damages thereon cannot exceed dye thousand dollars; and the amount recovered is to be for the exclusive benefit of the widow and next of kin, to be distributed to them in the same proportions as the personal property of the deceased person.

§ 992. In an action against several executors or administrators, they are all considered as one person representing their testator or intestate, and judgment may be taken, and execution issued against all who are named as defendants in the summons, although it he served only on part of them, in the same manner as if served on all, except as provided in the next section.

§ 993. When a judgment is taken against an administrator or executor upon failure to answer, it is not to be deemed evidence of assets in his hands, unless it appear that the complaint alleged assets, and was personally served an him.

§ 994. The time which shall have elapsed between the death of a person, and the granting of letters testamentary or of administration, on his estate, not exceed months, and the period of six months after the granting of such letters are net to be deemed any part of the time limited for the commencement of actions, by executors or administrators.

§ 995. An executor of an executor has no authority as such to commence or maintain an action or proceeding, relating to the property of the testator of the first executor, or to take any charge or control thereof.

§ 996. The real property, which belonged to a deceased person, is not bound, or in any way affected by a judgment against his executors or administrators, nor liable to be sold, by virtue of an execution issued upon such judgment.

§ 997. In an action against executors or administrators, in which the fact of their having administered the estate of their testator or intestate, or any part thereof comes in issue, and the inventory of the property of the deceased, filed by them is given in evidence; the same may be repelled by evidence: 1. That any property has been omitted in such inventory, or was not returned therein at its full value: 2. That such property has perished or been lost, without the fault of such executors or administrators; or that it has been fairly sold by them at private public sale, at a less price than the value so returned; or that, since the return of the inventory, such property has deteriorated or increased in value. In such action. the defendants cannot be charged for any things in action, specified in their inventory, unless it appear that they have been collected, or might with due diligence, have been collected.

§ 998. No person is liable to an action as executor of his own wrong, for having taken, received, or interfered with, the property of a deceased person; but is responsible to the executors, or general or special administrators, of such deceased person, for the value of all property so taken or received, and for all damages, caused by his acts, to the estate of the deceased.

§ 999. The next of kin of a deceased person are liable to an action by a creditor of the estate, to recover the distributive shares, received out of such estate, or so much thereof, as may be necessary to satisfy his debt. The action may be against all the next of kin jointly, or against any one or more of them severally.

§ 1000. In such action, the plaintifff may recover the value of all the assets received by all the defendants in the action, if necessary to satisfy his demand; and the amount of the recovery must be apportioned among the defendants, in proportion to the value of the assets received by each; and no allowance or deduction can be made from such amount, on account of there being. other relatives to whom assets have also been delivered.

§ 1001. Any one of the next of kin, against whom a recovery is bad pursuant to the last section, may maintain an action against all the other relatives of the testator, to whom any such assets have been paid, jointly, or against any of them separately, for a just and equal contribution, and may recover of each defendant such an amount as shall be in the same proportion to the whole sum collected of the plaintifff, as the value of the assets delivered to such defendant bore to the value of all the assets delivered to all the relatives of the deceased.

§ 1002. Legatees are liable to an action by a creditor of the testator to recover the value of any legacy received by them. The action may be brought against all or only one of the legatees. In such action the plaintifff cannot recover unless he shows: 1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or administrator of the deceased, to his next of kin: or 2. That the value of such assets has been recovered by some other creditor: or 3. That such assets are not sufficient to satisfy the demand of the plaintifff: And in the last case, he can recover only the deficiency. The whole amount which the plaintifff can recover, must be apportioned among all the legatees of the testator, in proportion to the amounts of their legacies respectively, and his proportion can only be recovered of each legatee.

§ 1003. If an action be brought against several next of kin jointly, or against several legatees jointly, for assets delivered to them, and a recovery be had against them, the costs of such action must be apportioned among the several defendants, in proportion to the amount of the debt or damages recovered against each of them.

§ 1004. In case of a judgment against several next of kin of a testator, or against several legatees, the payment or satisfaction of the amount recovered against any one of the defendants, discharges such defendant, and exonerates him and his property from the judgment.

§ 1005. Heirs and devisees are liable to an action by a creditor of a deceased person, to recover the debt, to the extent of the value of any real property inherited by; or devised to them. If such action be against the heirs, all the heirs who may be liable must be made parties to the action.

§ 1006. But the heirs are not liable for the debt, unless it appear that the personal assets of the deceased were not sufficient to discharge it, or that after due proceedings before the proper surrogate’s court, the creditor has been unable to collect the debt, from the personal representatives of the deceased; or from his next of kin or legatees. If the personal assets were sufficient to pay a part of the debt, or in case a part thereof shall have been collected, as mentioned, in the last section, the heirs of such diseased person are liable for the residue.

§ 1007. But the last section does not affect the liability of heirs for a debt of their ancestor, where such debt was, by his will, expressly charged exclusively on the real property descended to such heirs, or where such debt is by the will expressly directed to be paid out of the real property descended, before resorting to the personal property.

§ 1008. In cases where the next of kin, legatees, heirs, and devisees are liable for the debts of their ancestors: as herein provided, they must give preference in the payment of the same, and are liable thereforee, in the following order: 1. Debts entitled to a preference under the laws of the United States: 2. Judgments against the ancestor or testator according to the priority thereof respectively: 3. Recognizances; bonds, sealed instruments, notes, bills, and unliquidated demands and accounts.

§ 1009. No preference can be given by any next kin, legatee, heir or devisee, to one debt over another of the same class, except one specified in the second subdivision of the last section; nor is a debt, due and payable, entitled to a preference over a debt not due; nor does the commencement of an action against any next of kin, legatee, heir or devisee, for the recovery of a debt, entitle it to a preference over others of the same class.

§ 1010. The next of kin, legatees, heirs and devisees, may show that there are debts of a prior class unsatisfied; or that there are unpaid debts of the same class with that on which the action is brought; and if it appear, that the value of the personal property delivered to them, or of the real estate descended or devised to them, does not exceed the debts of a prior class judgment must be rendered in their favor.

§ 1011. If the personal property delivered to such next of kin or legatees, or if the real estate descended or devised to such heirs and devisees, exceed the amount of debts which are entitled to a preference over the debt for which the action is brought, judgment must be rendered against them only for such a sum as shall be a just proportion to the other debts, of the same class with that on which the action is brought.

§ 1012. If a debt of a class prior to that on which the action is brought, or of the same class, shall have been paid by any next of kin, legatees, heirs or devisees, they may prove such payment, and the amount of the debts so paid must be estimated in ascertaining the amount to be recovered, in the same manner as if such debts were outstanding and unpaid, as prescribed in the last two sections.

§ 1013. If it appear that the real property so descended, was not aliened by the heir, at the time of the commencement of the action, or if the heir confess the claim, and show what real property has descended to him, the court must order that the debt of the plaintifff, or the proportion thereof which he is entitled to recover, be levied of the real property so descended, and not otherwise; and every judgment rendered in such action has preference, as a lien on the real property descended, to any judgment obtained against such heir personally, for a debt or demand in his own right.

§ 1014. When it appears, in the action, that before the commencement thereof; the heir has aliened the real property descended to him, or any part thereof‘, he shall be personally liable for the value of the property so aliened, and judgment may be rendered thereforee and execution awarded, as in actions for his own ‘debts. But no real property aliened in good faith by an heir, before action commenced against him, is liable to execution, or in any manner affected by a judgment against him.

§ 1015. In actions brought against several heirs jointly, or several devisees jointly, the amount, which the plaintifff recovers, must be apportioned, among all the heirs of the ancestor, or among all the devisees of the testator, in proportion to the value of the real property descended or devised, and such proportion only can be recovered of each heir or legatee.

§ 1016. Devisees made liable, by the foregoing provisions of this chapter, to the creditors of their testator, are not so liable, unless it appear that his personal assets and the real property of the testator descended to his heirs were insufficient to discharge the debt; or unless it appear, that after due proceedings before the surrogate, the creditor has been unable to recover the debt, or any part thereof, from the personal representatives of the testator, or from his next of kin or legatees, or from his heirs.

§ 1017. In either of the cases specified in the last section, the amount of the deficiency of the personal assets, and of the real property descended to satisfy the debt of the plaintifff, and the amount which such plaintifff may have failed to recover from the personal representatives of the testator, his next of kin, legatees and heirs, may be recovered of the devisees of such testator, to the extent of the real property devised to them respectively.

§ 1018. But the last two sections do not affect the liability of devisees, for a debt of their testator, where such debt was, by his will, expressly charged exclusively upon the real property devised, or by the terms of the will made payable exclusively by such devisee, or made payable out of the real property devised, before resorting to the personal property or to any other real property descended or devised.

§ 1019. The provisions of this chapter, with regard to heirs, and to proceedings by and against them, and to judgments and executions against them, are applicable to actions and proceedings against devisees; and they must, in like manner, be sued jointly.

§ 1020. In cases where, by the provisions of any statute, a child born after the making of a will, is entitled to succeed to a portion of the testator’s real and personal property, such child shall have the same rights and remedies to compel a distribution of the personal property and a partition of the real property, as are provided for next of kin and for heirs; and shall, in all respects, be liable, in the same manner and to the same extent, to the creditors of his ancestor, in respect to the personal property delivered to him, and the real property descended to him, as are herein prescribed in relation to next of kin and heirs; and such child may recover of the legatees and devisees who may have received or taken any real or personal property of the testator, the share or portion thereof to which he may be entitled.

§ 1021. The provisions of the last two sections relative to a child, born after the making of a will, apply equally to every person, who being a witness to a will, is entitled, by the provisions of any statute, to recover a portion of the real or personal property, of the testator, from the legatees and devisees named in such will.

CHAPTER VII. ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL SECURITIES, AND FOR FINES AND FORFEITURES.

Official bond to the people, construed severally.
Any person aggrieved may prosecute.
Leave of court must be obtained.
A judgment in favor of one does not preclude another action for another cause.
Aggregate of recoveries not to exceed the undertaking.
Execution to be first enforced against principal.
Amount collected to be limited by the undertaking.
Fines and forfeitures how prosecuted.
Amount to be recovered in certain cases.
Effect of recovery by collusion.
When not specially granted to belong to treasury, and property forfeited recovered by action. 

§ 1022. The official bond, or other security, of a public officer, to the people of this state, whether with or without securities, is to be construed as security to the people of the state, as a government, and also to all persons severally, for the official delinquencies, against which it is intended to provide. If it be to a county, town, city, village or other municipal body, it is, in like manner, to be construed as security severally to all persons intended to be secured, as well as to the body politic named therein.

§ 1023. When a public officer, by official misconduct or neglect of duty, forfeits his official bond, or renders his sureties liable upon an official security, any person, injured thereby, or who is, by law, entitled to the benefit of the security, may bring an action thereon, in his own name, against the officer and his sureties, to recover the amount to which he may be entitled, by reason of the delinquency.

§ 1024. Before an action can be brought by a plaintifff, other than the people, or body politic named in the security, leave must be obtained of the court or a judge thereof, or a county judge, within the district or county where the action is triable; and leave can only be granted, on a production of the copy of the bond, and an affidavit showing the delinquency; and if the delinquency be such, as that if established on the trial, it would entitle the party applying to recover in the action, leave must be granted.

§ 1025. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency, does not preclude the same, or another party, from an action on the same security, for another delinquency.

§ 1026. If it appear in an action against a surety, on an official security, that he has already been obliged, by reason of prior recoveries against him on the same, to pay amounts, which, in the aggregate, are equal to the extent of his undertaking, or that, by reason of the insolvency of his principal, he will be obliged to pay to that extent on judgments already recovered against the surety. And the recovery against a surety must, in all cases, be limited by the amount of his undertaking.

§ 1027. Upon the execution issued on a judgment, recovered upon the official security of a public officer against him and a surety, there must be endorsed a direction to the officer, to whom the execution is delivered, to collect the same out of the property of the principal, if sufficient can be found, and if not, then to collect it out of the property of the surety.

§ 1028. If there be several judgments on which executions are, at the same time, in the sheriff’s hands, against a public officer and his sureties, amounting in the aggregate to a sum greater than that, for which the sureties are liable, the court must, on their application, limit the amount to be collected of them, to the amount of their respective liabilities, and may cause the same to be applied on the judgments or executions, in proportion to such amounts.

§ 1029. Actions for fines and forfeitures, may be prosecuted by the officers or persons, to whom they are by law given, or who, by special provision of law, are authorized to recover them; and whether prosecuted by public officers, or by private persons, are governed by the same rules as other civil actions, except as otherwise specified in this chapter.

§ 1030. When an action is brought for a penalty, which is limited bylaw, not to exceed a certain amount, the action may be brought for that amount; and upon the trial, the amount recovered, must be determined in proportion to the offense.

§ 1031. A recovery of a judgment, for a penalty or a forfeiture, by collusion between the parties, with intent to save the defendant from the consequences contemplated by law, in a case where the penalty or forfeiture is given, wholly or partly, to the prosecutor, does not prevent the recovery of the same by another person.

§ 1032. Fines and forfeitures, not specially granted or appropriated by law, must be paid into the treasury of the state; and whenever by the provisions of law, any property, real or personal, is forfeited to the people of this state, or to any officer for their use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper officer, in the supreme court.

CHAPTER VIII. ACTIONS BY AND AGAINST CERTAIN PUBLIC OFFICERS AND PUBLIC BODIES.

Who may sue in official capacity.
In what cases official persons may sue.
When special department of corporation sues.
Actions against same official persons.
For acts of their own or their predecessors.
When the municipal body is sued, judgment to be presented to board of supervisors.
Supervisors must include it in tax list.
Treasurers must pay judgments against county.
Supervisor or overseer must pay for town.
Execution not to issue until after demand.
Judgments against town officers, how paid.

§ 1033. The following officers may prosecute actions in their official capacity: The board of supervisors of a county; The loan officers and commissioners of loans of a county; The superintendents of the poor of a county; The supervisor of a town; The overseers of the poor of a town; The commissioners of highways of a town; The commissioners of common schools of a town; The trustees of a school district; The trustees of gospel and school lots; and Any organized department of a municipal corporation having a board of officers in charge of a particular branch of public service, and specially authorized by statute to prosecute. In such action the plaintifffs may be designated by their official name, or the action may be brought in the name of the body, in whose behalf the action is brought.

§ 1034. Every such action must be either, 1. On a contract made with them in their official capacity; or, 2. To enforce a liability, or a duty enjoined by law, in favor of such officers, or the body represented by them; or, 3. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such officers or body; or, 4. To recover damages for an injury to their official rights or property.

§ 1035. When an organized department of a municipal corporation is authorized by statute to sue, it shall, for purposes of the action be deemed the real party in interest, though the corporation, of which it is a department, be the party ultimately to be benefited by the action, or responsible for any loss incurred therein.

§ 1036. An action may be brought against the officers mentioned in section 1033, in their official capacity, or against the body they represent, either upon a contract made by such officers in their official capacity, and within the scope of their authority, or for an injury to the rights of the plaintifff, arising from some act or omission of such officers, or of the body represented by them.

§ 1037. The actions authorized by this chapter may be brought by or against the officers mentioned in section 1033 upon a cause of action which accrued during the term of their predecessors, as well as during their own term of office, and when brought maybe continued by, or against, the successors in office of the parties whose names may, for that purpose, be substituted in the action.

§ 1038. If judgment, for the recovery of money, be rendered against a county, or the board of supervisors, or superintendents of the poor, of a county, or against a town, or the supervisor or overseers of a the poor of a town, on account of the liability of such county or town, and the judgment be not satisfied, or proceedings thereon stayed by appeal or otherwise, before the next annual meeting of the board of supervisors of the county, a certified copy of the docket of the judgment, may be presented to the board of supervisors at their annual meeting.

§ 1039. The board of supervisors must thereupon cause the amount due on the judgment, with interest, from the time of the recovery until the first Monday in February after such meeting, to be added to the tax of the town or county, for whose liability the same was recovered, and the same must be collected as other contingent charges of the town or county.

§ 1040. The treasurer of a county, against which, or against whose officers, a judgment has been recovered for a liability of the county, the execution of which has not been stayed upon appeal, must, upon demand, and the delivery to him of a certified copy of the docket of the judgment, pay the amount due thereon, if there be sufficient money of the county in his hands, not otherwise specifically appropriated. If he fail to do so, he shall be personally liable for the amount, unless the collection thereof be afterwards stayed upon appeal.

§ 1041. The supervisors, or overseers of the poor, of a town, against which, or against whose officers, a judgment has been recovered for a liability of the town, the execution of which has not been stayed upon appeal, must in like manner upon demand, and the delivery of a certified copy of the docket of the judgment, pay the amount due thereon, if there be sufficient money of the town in his hands, not otherwise specifically appropriated. If he fail to do so, he shall be personally responsible for the amount, unless the collection thereof be afterwards stayed upon appeal.

§ 1042. Execution cannot be issued on a judgment, mentioned in sections 1038 and 1040, without leave of the court, nor must leave be granted, until the court is satisfied that payment has been demanded of the proper county, or town officers, as provided in the last two sections, and that the board of supervisors have wrongfully omitted to include the amount in the tax list, as provided in section 1039. When execution is issued, the property of the county, or town, only is liable thereon.

§ 1043, Judgments, for the recovery of money, rendered against loan officers, commissioners of loans, commissioners of common schools, commissioners of highways, trustees of school districts, and trustees of gospel and school lots, or other town or county officers, on account of a liability of such county or town, may be enforced by execution, or otherwise, against such officers personally, and the amount collected of them must be allowed to them in their official accounts.

CHAPTER IX. ACTIONS TO VACATE CHARTERS AND LETTERS PATENT, AND TO PREVENT THE USURPATION OF AN OFFICE OR FRANCHISE.

Action substituted for quo warranto and scire facias.
Action to vacate charter of a corporation.
In what cases action may be brought.
Leave to be first obtained from court.
Action for usurping an office or franchise.
Action to vacate patents for lands.
When a private person may be joined as plaintifff.
When for usurping an office and receiving fees, defendant may be arrested.
Judgment may determine the right of claimant.
When claimant may enter upon office.
Punishment for refusing to deliver books.
Persons entitled may recover damages.
When several claimants to an office, all may be included.
Judgments in actions under this chapter.
Corporation may be dissolved.
Costs may be ordered.
Injunction and receiver allowed.
Record when filed with secretary of state.
When patent for land is vacated, secretary of state to enter note thereof.

§ 1044. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and proceedings by information in the nature of quo warranto, are abolished, and the remedies heretofore obtainable in these forms, may be obtained by civil actions, under the provisions of this chapter. But nothing contained in this section affects any right already required, or any judgment or order already made, or any proceeding already taken.

§ 1045. An action may be brought by the attorney general, in the name of the people of this state, whenever the legislature so directs, against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its corporate existence, on the ground that such act or renewal was procured, upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, by the persons incorporated, or by some of them, or with their knowledge and consent.

§ 1046. An action may be brought by the attorney general, in the name of the people of this state, on leave granted by the supreme court, or a judge thereof, for the purpose of vacating the charter or annulling the existence of a corporation, other than municipal, whenever such corporation; 1. Offends against any of the provisions of the act or acts creating, altering, or renewing, such corporation; or 2. Violates the provisions of any law, by which such Corporation forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers; or 3. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or franchises, by failure to exercise its powers; or 4. Whenever it has done or omitted any act, which amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges; and franchises; or 5. Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege, not conferred upon it by law. 	 And it is the duty of the attorney general, to apply for leave, and upon leave granted, to bring the action in every case of public interest, whenever he has reason to believe, that any of these acts or omissions can be proved; and also in every other case, in which satisfactory security is given, to indemnify the people of this state, against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.

§ 1047. Leave to bring the action may be granted, upon the application of the attorney general; and the court or judge may, at discretion, direct notice of such application to be given to the corporation or its officers, previous to granting such leave, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto.

§ 1048. An action may be brought by the attorney general in the name of the people of this state, upon his own information, or upon the complaint of a private party, against the party offending in the following cases: 1. When any person usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within this state, or any office in a corporation created by the authority of this state: or, 2. When any public officer, civil or military, has done or suffered an act which, by the provisions of law, makes a forfeiture of his office: or, 3. When any association, or number of persons, act within this state as a corporation, without being duly incorporated. And it is the duty of the attorney general to bring the action, whenever he has reason to believe that any of these acts can be proved, or when he is directed to do so, by a judge of the supreme court.

§ 1049. An action may be brought by the attorney general, in the name of the people of this state, for the purpose of vacating or annulling letters patent, granted by the people of this state, in the following cases: 1. When he has reason to believe, that such letters patent were obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, made by a person to whom the same were issued or made, or with his consent or knowledge: or, 2. When he has reason to believe, that such letters patent were issued through mistake or in ignorance of a material fact: or, 3. When he has reason to believe, that the patentee, or those claiming under him, have done or omitted an act, in violation of the terms and conditions on which the letters patent were granted, or have, by any other means, forfeited the interest acquired under the same.

§ 1050. When an action is brought by the attorney general, by virtue of this chapter, on the complaint or information of a person having an interest in the question, the name of such person must be joined with the people, as plaintifff.

§ 1051. Whenever such action is brought against a person for usurping an office, the attorney general, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set forth in the complaint, the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, with a statement of his right thereto, and in such case, upon proof by affidavit, that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to the office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted by a judge of the supreme court, for the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail, and thereupon he may be arrested and held to bail, in the same manner, and with the same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions, where the defendant is subject to arrest.

§ 1052. In every such case, judgment maybe rendered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party, so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice requires.

§ 1053. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office and executing such official bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the execution of the office, and it is his duty, immediately thereafter, to demand of the defendant in the action, all the books and papers, in his custody or within his power, belonging to the office.

§ 1054. If the defendant refuse or neglect to deliver over such books or papers, pursuant to the demand, he is to be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the same proceedings may be had, and with the same effect, to compel delivery of such books and papers, as are prescribed in article five, title six, chapter six, of the first part of the Revised Statutes.

§ 1055. If judgment be rendered, upon the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover, by action, the damages which he shall have sustained, by reason of the usurpation of the office by the defendant.

§ 1056. Where several persons claim to be entitled to the same office or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such office or franchise.

§ 1057. When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation, against whom such action has been brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or exercising an office, franchise or privilege, judgment must be rendered, that such defendant be excluded from the office, franchise or privilege, and also that the plaintifff recover costs against such defendant. The court may also, in its discretion, impose upon the defendant a fine not exceeding two thousand dollars; which fine when collected, must be paid into the treasury of the state.

§ 1058. If it be adjudged, that a corporation, against which an action shall have been brought, pursuant to this chapter, has by neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, privileges and franchises, judgment must be rendered, that the corporation be excluded from such corporate rights privileges and franchises, and that the corporation be dissolved.

§ 1059. If judgment be rendered in such action, against a corporation or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs therein to be collected, by execution against the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by process against the directors or other officers of such corporation.

§ 1060. When such judgment is rendered against a corporation, the court has the same power to restrain the corporation, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take an account and make distribution thereof among its creditors, as are given in the chapter upon actions respecting corporations, and in the chapter upon the voluntary dissolution of corporations, and it is the duty of the attorney general, immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to institute proceedings for that purpose.

§ 1061. Upon the rendition of such judgment against a corporation, or for the vacating or annulling of letters patent, it is the duty of the attorney-general, to cause a copy of the judgment roll to be forthwith filed in the office of the secretary of state.

§ 1062. Such secretary must thereupon, if the record relate to letters patent, make an entry in the records of the commissioners of the land office, of the substance and effect of the judgment, and of the time when the record thereof was docketed; and the real property granted by the letters patent, may thereafter be disposed of by such commissioners, in the same manner as if the letters patent had never been issued.

CHAPTER X. ACTIONS IN JUSTICES’ COURTS.

Summons, arrest and attachment.
Pleadings and trial.
Judgment and execution.
General provisions.

ARTICLE I. SUMMONS, ARREST AND ATTACHMENT.

Any person may act as attorney, except constable.
Actions commenced by summons or appearance.
Guardian for infant, how appointed.
Contents of summons.
Time when summons is returnable.
Manner of serving summons.
Complaint may be served with summons, in certain cases.
One hour allowed to appear after the time.
Order to arrest, in what cases allowed.
Proof to be made, and security given before order.
Defendant when arrested, to be taken before justice.
Constable to give notice to plaintifff.
Defendant arrested, how kept.
Order to attach property when allowed.
Proof and security required before order made.
Contents of order.
Duty of constable, on attachment.
Disposition of property, when attached.
Constable must make return.
Plaintiff not a resident must give security.
Security taken by constable, its avails how disposed of.

§ 1063. Parties in justices’ courts may prosecute or defend in person or by attorney, and any person may act as attorney, except that the constable by whom the summons or jury process was served, cannot appear or act on the trial in behalf of either party. He may however act, in any other stage of the action, as agent or attorney for a party, and the authority of a person to act for another as attorney, may be oral or written, but unless admitted by the adverse party must be proved by the oath of the attorney or otherwise.

§ 1064. Actions in justices’ courts are commenced by summons, or by the voluntary appearance and pleadings of the parties without summons. In the latter case, the action is deemed commenced, at the time of appearance.

§ 1065. When a guardian is necessary, he must be appointed by the justice as follows: 1. If the infant be plaintifff, the appointment must be made before the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or upwards, if under age, upon the application of some relative or friend. The consent in writing of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible for costs, if he fail in the action, must be first filed with the justice. 2. If the infant be defendant, the guardian must be appointed at the time the summons is returned, or before the pleadings. It is the right of the infant to nominate his own guardian, if the infant be over fourteen years of age, and the proposed guardian be present, and consent in writing to be appointed. Otherwise the justice may appoint any suitable person who gives such consent.

§ 1066. The summons must he addressed to the defendant by name, or if his name be unknown, by description of him, and must summon him to appear before the justice, at his office a town or ward, and at a time specified therein, to answer the complaint of the plaintifff, for a cause of action therein described in general terms, sufficient to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him, and must state the amount for which the plaintifff will take judgment, if the defendant fail to appear and answer. It must be subscribed by the plaintifff, or by the justice before whom it is returnable.

§ 1067. The time mentioned in the summons, for the appearance of the defendant, and the time of service must be as follows: 1. Where the summons is accompanied by an order to arrest the defendant, or to attach property under sections 1071 and 1076, it must be returnable immediately: 2. When the defendant is not a resident of the county, or where the plaintifff is not a resident, and gives the security required by section 1082, it must be returnable not more than three days from its date, and must be served at least two days before the time for appearance: 3. In all other cases it must be returnable, not more than twelve days from its date, and must be served at least six days before the time for appearance.

§ 1068. The summons must be served by a constable of the county, as follows: 1. If the action be against a corporation, by delivery of a copy to the president, or other head of the corporation, or to the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof, or when no such officer resides in the county, to a director resident therein: 2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, by delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to his father, mother, or guardian, or if there be none within the county, then to any person having the care or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is: 3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence of habitual drunkenness, or for any other cause, and for whom a committee has been appointed, by delivery of a copy to such committee and to the defendant personally: 4. If an order to attach property be endorsed on the summons, by leaving a copy, as prescribed in section 1079. 5. In all other cases by delivery of a copy to the defendant personally.

§ 1069. When the action is on a promissory note, bill of exchange, or other obligation for the payment of money only, or for a specified amount of property, at a valuation fixed in the contract, or on an account, the plaintifff may serve, with the summons, a copy of his complaint, together with a copy of such obligation or account. In such case, unless the defendant, in his answer, specifically deny the note, bill of exchange, or other obligation or account, he is to be deemed to have admitted it.

§ 1070. The parties are entitled to one hour in which to appear; after the time mentioned in the summons for appearance, but are not bound to remain longer than that time, unless both parties have appeared, and the justice, being present, is actually engaged in the trial of another action, or of a special proceeding. In such case, he may postpone the time of appearance until the close of such trial.

§ 1071. An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed on a summons issued by the justice, and the defendant may be arrested thereon, by the constable, at the time of serving the summons, and brought before the justice, and there detained until duly discharged, in the following cases: 1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of action not arising on contract, when the defendant is not a resident of the county, or is about to remove therefrom, or when the action is for a willful injury to person, or to property knowing it to belong to another: 2. In an action against a person who does not reside in the state: 3. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or property, embezzled or fraudulently misapplied or converted to his own use, by a public officer, or an officer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional employment: 4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation, for which the action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property for the taking, detention or conversion of which the action is brought: 5. When the defendant has removed, concealed or disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors: 6. When an arrest is authorized by special statute, in an action for a fine or penalty, or for a willful violation of duty. But no female can be arrested, except for a willful injury to person or to property knowing it to belong to another.

§ 1072. Before an order for an arrest can be made, the party applying must prove, to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of himself, or some other person, the facts on which the application is founded, and the amount of his debt or claim over all payments and set offs. The plaintifff must also execute and deliver to the justice a written undertaking, with or without sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment the plaintifff will pay to him all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which must be double the amount claimed, not exceeding one hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintifff without sureties, he must annex thereto an affidavit, that he is a resident and householder or freeholder, within the county, and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking, over all his debts and liabilities.

§ 1073. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested, must be taken to the office of the justice who made the order, and if he be absent, or unable to try the action, or if it be made to appear to him, by the affidavit of the defendant that he is a material witness in the action, the constable must immediately take the defendant before the next justice of the city or town, who must take cognizance of the action, and proceed thereon, as if the summons had been issued, and the order of arrest made by him.

§ 1074. The constable, making the arrest, must immediately give notice thereof to the plaintifff, and endorse on the summons and subscribe a certificate, stating the time of serving the same, the time of the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintifff.

§ 1075. The constable making an arrest, or another constable, by direction of the justice, must keep the defendant in custody until duly discharged by order of the court, but in up case, can such detention exceed twelve hours from the time of his being first brought before the justice, unless, within that time, the trial of the action: be commenced or unless it be delayed at the request of the defendant.

§ 1076. When the cause of action arises upon a judgment rendered within this state, or an order of a court of competent jurisdiction, to pay a sum of money, or upon any other contract, an order to attach the property of the defendant, may be endorsed upon a summons issued by the justice, in the following cases: 1. When the defendant has departed, or is about to depart, from the county of his residence, or where the action is brought, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of process, or when he keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent: 2. When the defendant has concealed, removed or disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.

§ 1077. Before an order to attach property can be made, the plaintifff must prove to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of himself, or another person, the facts on which the application is founded; he must also prove in the same manner, the amount, as near as may be, of his debt or claim, over all payments and set offs. He must also execute, and deliver to the justice, a written undertaking approved by him, with sufficient sureties, to the effect that he will pay to the defendant, all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the plaintifff fail to recover judgment; and that if judgment be recovered, the plaintifff will restore so much of the property, or the avails thereof, if any, as may remain after satisfying the judgment and the subsequent costs.

§ 1078. The order of attachment, must state the amount shown by the affidavit to be due, and must direct that the property of the defendant liable to execution sufficient to satisfy the same, be attached and kept, in order to satisfy any judgment that may be recovered in the action.

§ 1079. The constable, to whom the summons with the order is delivered, must take into his possession, the property of the defendant liable to execution in the action, and keep the same as directed in the order, and make an inventory thereof, and deliver the same to the defendant, if he can be found in the county. If not found, the constable must leave a copy of the summons, the order and the inventory certified by him, at the residence of the defendant, with some person of suitable age and discretion, if any such person be found there, otherwise, he must post the same on the outer door of such residence. If the defendant have no place of residence in the county, then the constable must leave the copy with the person, in whose possession the property is found.

§ 1080. The property, attached by a constable, must not be removed by him, if an undertaking with sufficient surety, be executed and delivered to him, to the effect, that if judgment be rendered against the defendant in the action and execution issued thereon, within thirty days after the judgment, the property shall be produced to satisfy the execution. If any person claim the property attached, the same must be delivered to him, if at any time, after the seizure, and before a sale on the execution, upon his executing, and delivering to the constable, in whose custody the property may be, an undertaking, with sufficient surety, to the effect, that if any action be brought thereon within three months, he will establish that he was the owner of the property, at the time of the seizure, or pay the value thereof to the plaintifff.

§ 1081. The constable serving a summons must endorse thereon a certificate of the time and manner of service. If property has been attached, that must be stated in the return, and an inventory of the property annexed. If an undertaking have been given, it must be returned to the justice, with the summons, and mentioned in the return.

§ 1082. A plaintifff who resides out of the state, before commencing his action, must file or deposit with the justice security approved by him, for the payment to the defendant of any judgment that may be recovered by him in the action.

§ 1083. When property is attached and delivered to a claimant upon an undertaking as provided in section 1080, if the value of the property recovered from him upon the undertaking, exceed the judgment recovered in the action, on which the property was attached, with interest thereon, the defendant in such original action is entitled to the excess. Or if such defendant satisfy the claim and costs, or the judgment against him, he shall be entitled to the benefit of the undertaking of the claimant, and may bring an action thereon in his own name.

ARTICLE II. PLEADINGS AND TRIAL.

When pleadings must be put in.
What pleadings allowed.
May be oral or written.
Contents of complaint.
Contents of answer.
When a reply allowed, and its contents.
Statement of ignorance equivalent to denial.
An action  upon note or account, what sufficient.
Pleadings must be verified.
Allegations not denied, to be deemed true.
Court may require pleading to be amended.
Variance, when disregarded.
When party may amend his pleading.
Answer to be in writing when title to lands come in question.
Surety must be given with answer.
Justice to order cause transferred.
When title to land arises, cause to be dismissed.
Other causes of action may be tried.
On return of summons, case must then be adjourned or tried.
In what cases adjournment allowed.
Length of adjournment and proof required.
Proceedings if party do not appear.
Proceedings when jury is demanded.
Order for jury, and constable’s duty thereon.
Six jurors to be drawn for trial.
When others may be summoned.
Party demanding jury must deposit fees.
Adjournment after jury summoned, not allowed unless fees are paid.
Competency of jurors, how tried.
Verdict of jury regulated.

§ 1084. The pleadings must take place at the time $116 summons is returned served, or at such other time, not exceeding five days thereafter, as the justice may appoint for the convenience of parties, and by their consent.

§ 1085. The pleadings in justices’ courts are: 1. The complaint by the plaintifff, stating the cause of action: 2. The answer by the defendant, stating the grounds of the defense: 3. When the answer sets up a counterclaim, the reply by the plaintifff.

§ 1086. The pleadings may be oral, except when the title to real property is brought in question, or they may be in writing; if oral, the substance of them must be entered by the justice in his docket; if in writing, they must be filed in his office, and a reference to them made in the docket. They are not required to be in any particular form, but must be such, as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended.

§ 1087. The complaint must state in a plain and direct manner, the facts constituting the cause of action.

§ 1088. The answer may contain a denial of any of the material facts stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to be untrue, and also a statement, in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts, constituting a defense, or a counterclaim upon which an action might be brought by the defendant against the plaintifff in a justice’s court.

§ 1089. When the answer contains a counterclaim, the plaintifff may reply, denying any of the material allegations relating thereto.

§ 1090. A statement in an answer or reply, that the party has not sufficient knowledge or information in respect to a particular allegation in the previous pleading of the adverse party, to form a belief, is equivalent to a denial.

§ 1091. When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon an account or instrument for the payment of money only, it is sufficient for the party to deliver the account or instrument to the court, and to state, that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse party, a specified sum, which he claims to recover or set off. The court may at the time of the pleading, require that such writing or account be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, with liberty to copy the same; or if not so exhibited, may prohibit its being afterwards given in evidence.

§ 1092. Every complaint, answer, or reply, must be verified by the oath of the party pleading, or if he be not present, by the oath of his agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true. The verification must be oral or in writing, in conformity with the pleading verified.

§ 1093. Every material allegation in a complaint, or relating to a counterclaim in an answer, not denied by the pleading of the adverse party, must, on the trial be taken to be true, except, that when a defendant, who has not been served with a copy of the complaint with the summons, fails to appear and answer, the plaintifff, cannot recover, without proving his case.

§ 1094. Either party may object to a pleading of his adversary, or to any part thereof; that it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him to understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defense, although it be taken as true. If the court deem the objection well founded, it must order the pleading to be amended, and, if the party refuse to amend, the defective pleading must be disregarded.

§ 1095. A variance between the proof on the trial, and the allegations in a pleading, must be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court be satisfied, that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby.

§ 1096. The pleadings may be amended, at any time before the trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, to supply any deficiency or omissions in the allegations or denial, necessary to support the action or defense when by such amendment, substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the issue, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse party, in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment must be granted. The court may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the court, not exceeding three dollars; but such payment cannot be required, unless an adjournment is made necessary by the amendment; nor can an amendment be allowed after a witness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.

§ 1097. When, by the defendant’s answer, the title to real property is brought in question, such answer must be in writing, subscribed by the defendant or his attorney.

§ 1098. If the defendant have been arrested, such answer must be disregarded, unless the defendant also immediately deliver to the justice a written undertaking, executed by the defendant, and one sufficient surety; of if the defendant be absent, by two sufficient sureties, approved the justice; to the effect, that the defendant will always render himself amenable, within each county, to the process of the supreme court, during the progress of the action, and to such as mayor be issued to enforce the judgment, which may be given therein; and in case of default, to pay all damages, not exceeding one hundred dollars.

§ 1099. Upon the defendant’s making such an answer, or if he have been arrested, upon such answer and undertaking, the justice must enter an order in his docket transferring the action to the supreme court; and the proceedings must thenceforth be conducted in that court, in all respects as if the action had been first commenced therein; and costs shall there be given without regard to the amount recovered; the costs before the justice being added as disbursements. The plaintifff may, however, by a notice served within twenty days thereafter, decline to prosecute his action in the supreme court; in such case, the claim shall be deemed abandoned, and no costs shall be recovered against him in the supreme court.

§ 1100. The defendant is not at liberty to give evidence, by which the question of title to real property is raised on the trial before a justice. And when from the plaintifff’s own showing, on the trial, it appears that the determination of the action will necessarily involve the decision of a question of title to real property, the justice must dismiss the action, with costs, stating on his docket the reason thereforee; but such dismissal shall not preclude the plaintifff from an action in the supreme court for the same cause.

§ 1101. When the title to real property is set forth in the answer as provided in section 1097, or appears on the trial as provided in the last section, and there are other causes of action in the complaint, not affected by the question of title, the order to transfer or to dismiss the action, shall not include such other causes; but as to them, the action must be severed, and tried before the justice in the same manner, as if the question of title had not been raised.

§ 1102. Upon the return day, if a jury be required, or if the justice be actually engaged in other official business, he may adjourn the trial without the consent of either party, as follows: 1. Where a party, who is not a resident of the county, is in attendance; or where the defendant is in attendance under arrest; the adjournment not to exceed twenty-four hours; and the defendant, if under arrest, to continue in custody: 2. In other cases, not to exceed five days, unless by consent of parties. If the trial be not adjourned, it must take place immediately upon the return of the summons.

§ 1103. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon application of either party, without the consent of the other, for a period not exceeding eight days, as follows: 1. The party asking the adjournment must, if required by his adversary, prove by his own oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of material testimony, which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial: 2. If the application be on the part of the plaintifff, and the defendant be under arrest, an adjournment for more than twenty-four hours, discharges the defendant from custody, but the action may proceed notwithstanding: and the defendant shall be subject to arrest on the execution in the same manner as if he had not been so discharged: 3. If the application be on the part of a defendant under arrest, before it can be granted, he must execute an undertaking, with one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the justice, as follows: If the arrest be for a cause specified in the first four subdivisions of section 1071, or in the sixth, the undertaking must be to the effect, that he will appear at the return day, and not depart from the court until duly discharged, or until after the trial and judgment, and after a reasonable opportunity to arrest him on execution issued upon the judgment, if any be obtained against him. If the arrest be for a cause specified in subdivision 5, of that section, the undertaking must be to the effect, that no part of the property of the defendant, liable to be taxes on execution, shall be removed, secreted, assigned, or otherwise disposed of, except for the necessary support, for the time, of himself and family, until the plaintifff ’s demand be satisfied, or until the expiration of ten days after the judgment, if any be obtained against him in the action: 4. Either party applying for an adjournment, must also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witnesses of such adverse party who are in attendance, be then taken by deposition before the justice, which must accordingly be done; and the testimony so taken may be read on the trial with the same effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the witness were produced.

§ 1104. An adjournment may be had, either at the time of joining the issue, or at any subsequent time to which the cause may stand adjourned, on application of either party, for a period longer than eight days, but not to exceed ninety days from the time of the return of the summons, upon compliance with the provisions of the last section, and upon proof; by the oath of the party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before the time to which he desires an adjournment, for the want of material evidence, describing it, that the delay has not been made necessary by any act or negligence on his part, since the action was commenced, and that he expects to procure the evidence at the time stated by him.

§ 1105. If the plaintifff fail to appear at the return day of the summons and make his complaint, the action must be dismissed. If the defendant fail to appear at the return day of the summons, or if either party fail, to attend at a day to which the trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleading or proof on his part, the case may nevertheless proceed at the request of the adverse party; and judgment must be given in conformity with the pleadings and proofs.

§ 1106. A trial by jury must be demanded at the time of joining issue; and is waived, if neither party then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the case must be adjourned, until a time and place fixed for the return of the jury. If neither party desire an adjournment, the time and place must be determined by the justice, and must be on the same day or within the next two days. The jury must be immediately drawn and summoned, and the return thereof made as prescribed in sections 317, 318, and 319.

§ 1107. At the time appointed for the trial, and on the return of the order, if the trial be not further adjourned, and if adjourned, then at the time to which the trial is adjourned, the justice must proceed to draw from the jurors summoned, the names of persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. Six jurors constitute a jury, but by consent of parties, a less number may act.

§ 1108. If a sufficient number of competent and indifferent jurors do not attend, the justice must direct others to be summoned by a constable, from the vicinity, sufficient to complete the jury.

§ 1109. The ballots containing names of jurors not summoned, if any, and of those summoned, but not drawn, must be returned by the justice to the drawn jury box, except that such of them as contain the names of persons, not liable to serve as jurors, must be destroyed. The ballots containing the names of the jurors, who serve, must not be returned to the same box from which they were taken, until all the names have been drawn out. As often as that happens, the whole number must be returned to the undrawn jury box, to be drawn as in the first instance.

§ 1110. Before a party can be entitled to a jury, he must deposit with the justice the sum of three dollars, for jury fees, from which the justice must refund to the party the fees of all jurors who do not attend, and those not refunded must be included in the judgment as part of the costs, in case the party calling the jury recover judgment.

§ 1111. No adjournment can be granted after the return of the jury, unless the party requiring the same, in addition to the other conditions imposed on him, deposit with the justice, to be immediately paid to the jurors attending, the sum of twenty-five cents each, which amount is in no case to be included as part of the costs in the judgment. After the adjournment the jurors must attend at the time and place appointed, without further notice, and the fees deposited when the jury was demanded, with the justice, may remain in his hands until the jury are empaneled, and must be then paid over to them.

§ 1112. If either party object to the competency of a juror the question thereon must be tried in a summary manner by the justice, who may examine the juror or other witnesses on oath.

§ 1113. The verdict of the jury must be general, for the plaintifff, for a specified sum, or for the defendant; or when there is a counterclaim proved, exceeding the demand of the plaintifff as proved; for the defendant for a specified sum. But where there are several plaintifffs or defendants, the verdict may be for or against, one or more of them.

ARTICLE III. JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.

When action may be dismissed.
When defendant fails to appear, judgment to be given.
When jury not demanded trial must be by justice.
When judgment must be given.
Party may remit excess over jurisdiction.
No costs allowed plaintifff in certain cases.
Offer of defendant to allow a certain recovery, and its effects.
Judgment, when defendant is subject to arrest.
Transcript of judgment filed and docketed.
Execution allowed within five years.
Contents of execution. 
Execution against joint debtors.
When a constable may omit to arrest.
When constable may arrest.
Extent of imprisonment.
When and how discharged.
Execution may be renewed.
Execution cannot be executed after sixty days.
Constable’s liability.
Execution by county clerk on judgment docketed.

§ 1114. Judgment that the action be dismissed, with out prejudice to a new action, may be entered with costs, in the following cases: 1. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action, before it is finally submitted: 2. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour thereafter: 3. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence, that the action is brought in the wrong county or town or by a plaintifff not a resident of the county, without giving security, as provided in section 1082; but if the objection be taken and overruled, it is cause only of reversal on appeal, and does not otherwise invalidate the judgment, if not taken, at the trial, it is waived, and is no cause of reversal.

§ 1115. When the defendant fails to appear and answer, judgment must be given for the plaintifff, as follows: 1. Where a copy of the complaint and account, or instrument, has been served personally with the summons, as prescribed in section 1069, judgment must be given without further evidence for the sum specified in the summons: 2. In other cases the justice must hear the evidence of the plaintifff, and render judgment for such sum only as shall appear by the evidence to be just; but in no case to exceed the amount specified in the summons.

§ 1116. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial be not demanded, the justice must hear the evidence, and decide all questions of fact and of law, and render judgment accordingly.

§ 1117. Upon a verdict, the justice must immediately render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judgment must be entered immediately after the close of the trial, if the defendant has been arrested, or his property attached: in other cases, it must be entered either at the close of the trial, or, if the justice then desire further time to consider, on the fourth day thereafter, both days inclusive.

§ 1118. When the amount found due to either party exceeds the sum, for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment, such party may remit the excess, and judgment may be entered for the residue.

§ 1119. In an action arising on contract, when there is no counterclaim, if the plaintifff fail to recover judgment for an amount equal to that stated in his summons, he cannot recover costs.

§ 1120. If the defendant, at any time before the trial, offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the plaintifff may immediately have judgment thereforee, with the costs then accrued. But if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the action a sum equal to the offer, he cannot recover costs accrued after the offer: but costs must be adjudged against him, and if he recover, deducted from his recovery. But the offer, and failure to accept it, cannot be given in evidence, to affect the recovery, otherwise than as to costs, as above provided.

§ 1121. When a judgment is rendered, in a case where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it must be so stated in the judgment, and entered in his docket.

§ 1122. The justice, on the demand of a party in whose favor judgment is rendered, must give him a transcript thereof, which may be filed and docketed in the office of the clerk of the county where the judgment was rendered. The time of the receipt of the transcript by the county clerk, must be noted by him thereon, and entered in the docket; and from that time, the judgment creates a lien in the same manner, as a judgment of the supreme court. Upon a transcript of such docket, certified by the clerk of the county, and filed in any other county, the judgment may be there docketed with the same effect, from the time of filing and docketing in that county. The judgment so docketed, and the enforcement thereof, are subject to the control of the county court of the county where it was first docketed, as a judgment of that court. But a judgment for less than twenty-five dollars, so docketed, is not a lien upon, and cannot be enforced against real property.

§ 1123. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in a justice’s court, except when it has been docketed in the county clerk’s office, may be issued by the justice before whom the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office, on the application of the party entitled thereto, at any time within five years from the entry of judgment.

§ 1124. The execution must be directed to a constable of the county, and subscribed by the justice by whom the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office, and must bear date of the day of its delivery to the officer to be executed. It must intelligibly refer to the judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and the name of the justice before whom, and of the county and town where, and the time when, it was rendered; the amount of the judgment; and, if less than the whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It must require the constable substantially as follows: 1. If it be a case where the defendant cannot be arrested, it must direct the officer to collect the amount of the judgment out of the personal property of the debtor, and to pay the same to the party entitled thereto: 2. If it be a case where the defendant may be arrested, in addition to the foregoing, it must direct the officer, if sufficient property of the defendant liable to the execution cannot be found to satisfy the judgment, that he arrest the debtor, and commit him to the jail of the county, until he pay the judgment, or be discharged according to law: 3. It must further, in all cases, direct the officer to make return of the execution, and a certificate thereon, showing the manner in which he has executed the same, in sixty days from the time of his receipt thereof.

§ 1125. Upon an execution on a judgment against joint debtors, upon one or more of whom the summons was not served, the execution must contain a direction to collect the amount out of the joint property of all the defendants, or the separate property of the persons upon whom the summons was served, to be specified by name. If such judgment be also such that the defendants are subject to arrest thereon, the justice must further specify the names of those defendants, served with the summons, who may be arrested for want of property.

§ 1126. A constable may, at his peril, omit to arrest a debtor; or after arrest, suffer him to go at large before the return day; subject only to his liability for an escape, or for omitting to arrest, if he fail to have either the money or the person of the debtor in custody at the expiration of the sixty days.

§ 1127. When an execution directs the arrest of the debtor for want of sufficient personal chattels, if there be not sufficient subject to levy known to the officer, or if upon demand by the officer of the debtor, he fail to produce sufficient property, the officer may without further delay arrest the defendant. When arrested, the defendant must be conveyed to the common jail of the county, and there be kept in custody until the execution with costs be paid, or he be discharged by due course of law.

§ 1128. The debtor committed as provided in the last section, may be held in prison ten days: and if he be a person without a family, for which he provides, one day in addition, for every dollar over ten due on the execution; or, if he have a family for which he provides, one day in addition, for every two dollars over twenty due on the execution.

§ 1129. The affidavit of an imprisoned debtor, that he has a family for which he provides, specifying by name one or more persons, members of such a family, and the place of their residence, is sufficient evidence thereof, to authorize his discharge by the jailor.

§ 1130. An execution may, at the request of the plaintifff, be renewed before the expiration of sixty days from the time of its issue, by the word renewed written thereon, with the date thereof, and subscribed by the justice. Such renewal has the effect of an original issue; and may be repeated as often as may be necessary. If an execution be returned unsatisfied, another may be afterwards issued.

§ 1131. A debtor cannot be arrested, nor his property sold on execution, after sixty days from its issue or renewal; but property levied on within the sixty days, may be sold after a renewal.

§ 1132. A constable is liable to the party in whose favor an execution is issued to him, for the amount thereof, in the following cases: 1. When he suffers sixty days to elapse, without making a true return thereof to the justice, and paying to him or to the party entitled, the money collected thereon by him: 2. When he willfully or carelessly omits to levy upon property; or if the debtor be liable to arrest, to arrest and imprison him, within sixty days; or having arrested the debtor, fails to commit him to the county jail, within the sixty days.

§ 1133. Upon a justice’s judgment docketed in a county clerk’s office, execution can only be issued by the clerk with whom the transcript is filed, or by the plaintifff in person: and it may be sent to one or more counties where the judgment is docketed. It must conform substantially to the execution issued by a justice, except that it must state the time when the judgment was docketed in the county from which it is issued, and must be directed to the sheriff; and may direct, that for want of sufficient personal property, the debt be made out of the real property of the debtor.

ARTICLE IV. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Proceeding in justices’ courts in cases not provided for in this article.
Justices’ docket, contents.
Entries when to be evidence.
Index to docket required.
Dockets to be delivered to successor in office.
Successor in office may issue execution.
Who deemed the successor.
When two are equally entitled, supervisor to designate one.
Blank process not allowed.
Every justice to have a weekly return day.
Not to be the same day with another justice of same town.
Another justice may be substituted in case of inability or absence.
Justice may depute a person to serve process.
Authority of special deputy.
Constable’s sureties may require new sureties.
Constable may complete execution after expiration of office.
Justice may punish for contempt.
Warrant of arrest for that purpose.
Conviction and commitment.
Juror or witness failing to attend may be arrested.
Proceedings against delinquent juror or witness.
Terms used in this chapter defined.
Justice’s fees.
Constable’s fees.
Witnesses’ fees.
Jurors’ fees.
Fees on execution from county clerk’s office.
Officers receiving too much liable to action.

§ 1134. Justices’ courts being courts of peculiar and limited jurisdiction, only those provisions of this code, which are in their nature applicable to the organization, powers and course of proceeding in justices’ courts, and in respect to which no special provision is made in this chapter, are applicable to justices’ courts and the proceedings therein.

§ 1135. Every justice must keep a book, denominated a docket, in which must be entered by him, 1. The title of every action in which the summons is returned served, or when the parties voluntarily appear: 2. The date of the summons, and the time of its return; and if an order to arrest the defendant or attach property was made, such fact must also be stated: 3. The time when the parties, or either of them, appeared; a minute of the pleadings; if in writing, referring to them; if not in writing, a concise statement of the material parts of the pleadings: 4. Every adjournment; stating on whose application, whether on oath, evidence, or consent, and to what time: 5. When a trial by jury is demanded, the demand must be stated, and by whom made, the names of the jury drawn, and the time appointed for the trial and return of the jury: 6. The names of the jury who appear, and of those sworn; the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request; the objection, if any, made to testimony, and the decision thereon: 7. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the jury disagree, and are discharged, that fact must be stated: 8. The judgment of the court; specifying the items of costs included, and the time when rendered: 9. The issuing of execution; when issued, and to whom; the renewals thereof, if any, and when made; the return, and when made; and a statement of any money paid to the justice, and when, and by whom: 10. The giving of a transcript to be filed in the county c1erk’s office, and when given: 11. The receipt of a notice of appeal, or order to make or amend a return, stating the time of the receipt, and the fees thereforee.

§ 1136. The several particulars in the last section specified, must be entered under the title of the action to which they relate, and at the time when they occur. Such entries in a justice’s docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the justice, or his successor in office, are primary evidence to prove the facts so dated therein.

§ 1137. A justice must keep an alphabetical index to his docket, in which must be entered the names of the; parties to each judgment, with a reference to the page of the entry. The names of the plaintifffs must be entered in the index, in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the family names.

§ 1138. It is the duty of every justice, upon the expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his successor his official dockets, as well his own as those of his predecessor, which may be in his custody; there to be kept as public records. If the office of a justice become vacant, by his death, or removal from the town or otherwise, before his successor is elected and qualified, the dockets, in possession of such justice, must be deposited with the supervisor of the town, to be by him delivered to the successor in office of the justice.

§ 1139. Any justice, with whom the docket of predecessor is deposited, may issue execution on a judgment there entered and unsatisfied, and not docketed in the county clerk’s office, in the same manner and with the same effect, as the justice, by whom the judgment was rendered, might have done.

§ 1140. The justice elected to fill a vacancy, or when elected, chosen by lot to fill a vacancy for less than a full term, is deemed the successor of the justice whose office became vacant before the expiration of a full term. When a full term expires, the same or another person elected to take office in the same town, from that time is deemed the successor.

§ 1141. When two or more justices are equally entitled, under the last section, to be deemed the successors in office of a justice, the supervisor of the town must by a certificate subscribed by him, and filed in the office of the town clerk, with a duplicate attached to the last docket, designate which justice is to be deemed the successor of a justice going out of office or whose office has become vacant.

§ 1142. The summons, execution, and every other paper made or issued by a justice, must be filled up without a blank left to be filled by another; otherwise it is void.

§ 1143. Every justice now in office and every justice hereafter elected, before entering upon the duties of his office, must, by appointment in writing, filed with the town clerk, assign a day of the week, and a place at which, a summons, issued by a plaintifff himself, may be made returnable before him. It is the duty of the justice to attend at his office, thus designated, on the day assigned for returns, from nine o’clock in the morning until four o’clock in the afternoon.

§ 1144. The day so appointed must not be the same, specified in the appointment of another justice of the same town previously filed. The place so designated may be known as the justice’s office and may be afterwards changed by him, on filing a new appointment, and posting notices thereof in three public places of the town.

§ 1145. In case of the sickness, other disability, or necessary absence of a justice, at the time appointed, another justice of the same town may, at his request, attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested with the power, for the time being, of the justice before whom the summons was returnable. In that case the proper entry of the proceeding before the attending justice, subscribed by him, must be made in the docket of the justice before whom the summons was returnable. If the case be adjourned, the justice before whom the summons was returnable, must resume jurisdiction.

§ 1146. A justice may at the request of a party, and on being satisfied that it is expedient, specially depute any discreet person, of suitable age, and not interested in the action, to serve a summons or execution, with or without an order to arrest the defendant, or to attach property. Such deputation must be in writing on the process.

§ 1147. The person so deputed has the authority of a constable in relation to the service, execution and return of such process, and is subject to the same obligations, but cannot receive a fee for the service.

§ 1148. When the sureties of a constable make complaint to a county judge, that such constable has unlawfully converted to his own use, or misapplied, money collected by him as constable, for which they have been sued, or are liable to be sued, such application being verified by oath that they believe it to be true, the county judge must immediately make an order, suspending such constable from the further exercise of his official powers, until he give new security. Such order must be served on the constable, and filed in the office of the town clerk.

§ 1149. When an execution is delivered to a constable, within the last sixty days of his term of office, he may, notwithstanding the expiration of his term, proceed thereon, in the same manner as if he still continued in office, and his sureties shall be liable to the same extent.

§ 1150. A justice may punish, as for a criminal contempt, persons guilty of the following acts, and no others : 1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the justice while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial proceeding: 2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding: 3. Willful resistance in the presence of the justice, to the execution of a lawful order or process made or issued by him.

§ 1151. A warrant of arrest may be issued by such justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested, and brought before the justice, on the same day, or the next judicial day, when an opportunity to be heard in his defense or excuse must be given. The justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the offense, and adjudge a punishment by fine or imprisonment, or both; such fine not to exceed twenty dollars, and such imprisonment, ten days.

§ 1152. The conviction, specifying particularly the offense and the judgment thereon, must be entered by the justice in his docket. A warrant of commitment to the jail of the county until the fine be paid, or for the term of the imprisonment, may then be issued. Such warrant must contain a transcript of the entry in the docket; and the same must be executed by any constable to whom it may be given, and by the jailer of the county.

§ 1153. If a person summoned as a juror or witness fail to attend, the justice may issue a warrant to arrest the delinquent for the purpose of compelling his attendance, and punishing his disobedience.

§ 1154. When the person arrested is brought before the justice, or when a person in attendance refuses to serve as a juror or to testify as a witness, and no valid excuse be shown, the justice may impose a fine upon him, not exceeding five dollars. An entry of such fine, stating the reason thereof, must be made by the justice in his docket, and thereupon shall have the effect of a judgment, in favor of the overseers of the poor of the town against the delinquent, and may be enforced as well against his person as his property.

§ 1155. The term “justice,” as used in this chapter, includes justice of the peace and justices of justices’ courts in cities; the term “town,” includes ward or district, in reference to justices’ courts in cities; and whenever other sections of the code are made applicable to justices’ courts, the term “judge” and “court” therein, are to be deemed to include justice and justices’ courts; and the term “sheriff,” to include constable.

§ 1156. For services rendered pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, fees may be charged, and included in the judgment, as follows: For Justice’s Fees. 1. For all proceedings when the defendant does not answer, including judgment, transcript and execution, one dollar: 2. For all proceedings to, and including the issue, if an order to arrest a defendant, or to attach property, be made, one dollar; if there be no order to arrest, or to attach property, fifty cents: 3. For all proceedings after issue, to and including trial by jury, if there be one, one dollar and fifty cents. If there be no jury, one dollar: 4. For judgment upon the issue and any proceedings afterwards, including transcript, executions, returns, and all other proceedings and entries, fifty cents: 5. Postage actually paid, on sending or receiving a a commission to take testimony.

§ 1157. Constables are entitled to receive, from the party in whose favor the services are rendered, the following fees; of which those rendered before judgment may be included therein, when it is in favor of the party liable thereforee: 1. For serving a summons or execution, and making return, including a copy, when there is no arrest or attachment of property, for each defendant served, twenty cents: 2. When the defendant is arrested; for serving the summons, making the arrest, and giving notice to the plaintifff, including copies and return, forty cents for one defendant, and twenty cents for each defendant, more than one, arrested: 3. When property is attached; for serving summons, attaching property, including copies, inventories and return, fifty cents for one defendant, and ten cents for each defendant more than one: 4. For travel; going to serve a summons, or give notice to the plaintifff, or to arrest a debtor on execution, or to summon a jury, six cents for each mile more than one ; to be computed for one person only, from the justice’s office to the place where the service is made; but when there is more than one defendant included in the same summons or execution, and in the case of summoning a jury, the constable must certify in his return the number of miles actually and necessarily travelled to make the service on all the persons served, and his fees shall be accordingly; when a debtor is arrested on execution and committed to jail, ten cents for each mile, from the place where the arrest is made, to the jail: 5. For collecting money on execution, and paying it over where property is not sold: four cents for every dollar collected to fifty dollars, and two cents for every dollar above fifty. For advertising property, twenty-five cents; for selling property, fifty cents: 6. When an execution is settled by the parties while in the constable’s hands, he is entitled to receive from the party in whose favor it was issued, his fees for travel, and service actually performed, and one half the fees he would have been entitled to for collecting and paying over.

§ 1158. A witness is entitled to receive from the party in whose behalf he attends, to be included in a judgment in favor of the party liable thereforee, as follows: If a resident of the city, village or town where the trial is had, twelve and a half cents; in other cases, twenty-five cents; also, four cents for each mile’s actual travel, going from his residence to the place of trial and returning.

§ 1159. Jurors are entitled to receive fees from the party who demands a jury trial, to be included in a judgment in his favor, twenty-five cents for attending, whether sworn or not, and the same fee for another attendance pursuant to adjournment, from the party applying thereforee.

§ 1160. Upon an execution issued on a justice’s judgment docketed in a county clerk’s office, the same fees are allowed as on executions issued by a justice; except that when real property is sold, the printer’s fees for advertising may be charged in addition, and also, the same fees for a certificate of sale, and for a sheriff’s deed, as are allowed in the supreme court.

§ 1161. If a justice, constable, witness or juror receive greater fees than are allowed by law, the excess may be recovered back, even though they may not be included in the judgment.

TITLE XII. OF APPEALS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Appeals in general.
Appeals to the court of appeals.
Appeals to the supreme court from an inferior court.
Appeals in the supreme court, and the superior court, and the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, from a single judge to the general term.
Appeal to the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, or to a county court, from an inferior court.

CHAPTER I. APPEALS IN GENERAL.

Judgments and orders reviewed as prescribed in this title.
Orders made out of court, how reviewed.
Any party aggrieved may appeal.
Parties how designated on appeal.
Appeals made by serving and filing notice with clerk.
Clerk to transmit papers to appellate court.
Intermediate orders affecting the judgments, reviewed on appeal.
What judgment may be given on appeal.
Certain appeals to be within one year.
Other appeals within sixty days.
Appellant to furnish papers to the court.

§ 1162. A judgment, or order, in a civil action, may be reviewed as prescribed by this title, and not otherwise.

§ 1163. An order, made out of court, without notice to the adverse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the judge who made it, or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the manner in which other motions are made.

§ 1164. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in this title.

§ 1165. The party appealing, is known as the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent. But the title of the action is not to be changed, in consequence of the appeal.

§ 1166. An appeal must be made by the service of a notice in writing, on the adverse party, and on the clerk with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered stating the appeal from the same, or some specified part thereof. When a party gives, in good faith, notice of appeal from a judgment or order, and omits, through mistake, to do any other act necessary to perfect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the court may permit an amendment on such terms as may be just.

§ 1167. Upon the appeal, allowed by the second and third chapters of this title, being perfected, the clerk with whom the notice of appeal is filed, must, at the expense of the appellant, forthwith transmit to the appellate court a certified copy of the notice of appeal and of the judgment roll.

§ 1168. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review any intermediate order, involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the judgment.

§ 1169. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment or order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroneous judgment.

§ 1170. The appeal allowed by the second and third chapters of this title, must be taken within two years after the judgment, if heretofore rendered, and within one year after a judgment hereafter rendered.

§ 1171. The appeal allowed by the fourth chapter of this title must be taken, within sixty days after written notice of the judgment or order shall have been given to the party appealing.

§ 1172. The appellant must furnish the court with copies of the notice of appeal, and of the order or judgment roll. If he fail to do so, the appeal may be dismissed.

CHAPTER II. APPEALS TO THE COURT OF APPEALS.

Appeal in what cases taken.
Security must be given to pay damages, costs and charges.
If judgment for money, security to stay execution.
If to deliver documents, they must be deposited.
If to execute conveyance, it must be deposited.
If to deliver property, security for, also on mortgage sale.
Security given, proceedings stayed.
Respondent may enforce judgment in certain cases, on giving security, notwithstanding appeal.
Undertakings in one instrument or several.
Security to be approved, and to justify.
Perishable property may be sold.

§ 1173. An appeal may be taken to the court of appeals, in the cases mentioned in section 28.

§ 1174. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written undertaking must be executed, on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages, costs and charges, which may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars or that sum must be deposited with the clerk, with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. But such undertaking or deposit may be waived by a written consent on the part of the respondent.

§ 1175. If the appeal be from a judgment directing the payment of money, it does not stay the execution of the judgment, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that if the judgment appealed from, or any part thereof; be affirmed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to be paid by the judgment, or the part of such amount as to which the judgment shall be affirmed, if it be affirmed only in part, and all damages which shall be awarded against the appellant, upon the appeal.

§ 1176. If the judgment appealed from, direct the assignment or delivery of documents, or personal property, the execution of the judgment is not stayed by appeal unless the things required to be assigned or delivered, be brought into court, or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the court may appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into, on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, and in such amount as the court or a judge thereof; or county judge may direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order of the appellate court, upon the appeal.

§ 1177. If the judgment appealed from, direct the execution of a conveyance, or other instrument, the execution of the judgment is not stayed by the appeal, until the instrument is executed and deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

§ 1178. If the judgment appealed from, direct the sale or delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same is not stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with two sureties, to the effect, that during the possession of such property by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property, from the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by a judge of the court by which the judgment was rendered, and which must be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking must also provide for the payment of such deficiency.

§ 1179. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided by sections 1175, 1176, 1177 and 1178, it stays all further proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment appealed from, or upon the matter embraced therein; but he court below may proceed upon any other matter included in the action, and not affected by the judgment appealed from. And the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with, or limit, the security required by sections 1175, 1176, and 1178, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s right; and may also in all cases limit such security to an amount not less than fifty thousand dollars.

§ 1180. In an action arising on contract, notwithstanding an appeal and security given for a stay of proceedings thereon, if the respondent give adequate security to make restitution, in case the judgment is reversed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained from the court below, proceed to enforce the judgment. Such security must be an undertaking, executed to the appellant, by at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect, that if the judgment be reversed or modified, the respondent will make such restitution as the appellate court may direct.

§ 1181. The undertakings prescribed by sections 1174, 1175, 1176 and 1178, may be in one instrument or several, at the option of the appellant; and a copy, including the names and residence of the sureties, must be served on the adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless a deposit is made as provided in section 1174 and notice thereof given.

§ 1182. An undertaking upon an appeal is of no effect, unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, that they are each worth double the amount specified therein. The adverse party may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties, within ten days after notice of the appeal; and unless they or other sureties justify before a judge of the court below, or a county judge as prescribed by sections 691 and 692, within ten days thereafter, the appeal must be regarded as if no such undertaking had been given. The justification must be upon a notice of not less than five days.

§ 1183. In the cases not provided for in sections 1175, 1176, 1177, 1178 and 1179, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the undertaking mentioned in section 1174, stays proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment appealed from, except, that where it directs the sale of perishable property, the court below may order the property, to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited or invested, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

CHAPTER III. APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT FROM AN INFERIOR COURT.

Appeals, in what cases.
Security to be given as on appeal to court of appeals.
Where heard.
Papers, by whom furnished.

§ 1184. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court, form the judgment rendered by a county court, or by a city court.

§ 1185. Security must be given, upon such appeal, in the same manner, and to the same extent, as upon an appeal to the court of appeals.

§ 1186. Appeals in the supreme court must be heard at a general term, either in the district embracing the county where the judgment or order appealed from was entered, or in a county adjoining that county, except that where the judgment or order was entered in the city and county of New-York, the appeal must be heard in the first district.

§ 1187. Judgment upon the appeal must be entered and docketed with the clerk in whose office the judgment roll was filed. When the appeal is heard in a county other that than where the judgment roll is filed, the judgment upon the appeal must be certified to the clerk with whom the roll is filed, to be there entered and docketed.

CHAPTER IV. APPEALS IN THE SUPREME COURT, AND IN THE SUPERIOR COURT AND COURT OF COMMON PLEAS OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK, FROM A SINGLE JUDGE, TO THE GENERAL TERM.

Appeals allowed from circuits and special terms to same court in general term; where heard and security required.
Orders in certain cases may be appealed from.
Orders at chambers to be entered before appeal.

§ 1188. In the supreme court, the superior court of the city of New-York, and the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, an appeal, upon either the law or the fact, may be taken to the general term, from a judgment entered upon the report of the referees or the direction of a single judge of the same court. Security must be given upon such appeal, in the same manner as upon an appeal to the court of appeals. In the supreme court, the appeal must be heard in the same manner as if it were an appeal from an inferior court; but the decision at the general term upon the facts separately from the law, is final.

§ 1189. An appeal may in like manner, and within the same time, be taken from an order made by a single judge of the same court, and may be thereupon reviewed in the following cases: 1. When the order grants or refuses a provisional remedy: 2. When it grants or refuses a new trial: 3. When it involves the merits of the action, or some part thereof: 4. When the order affects a substantial right, and involves the construction of the constitution or of a provision of this code: 5. When the order is made, upon a summary application in an action after judgment, and affects a substantial right.

§ 1190. The last section includes an order made out of court upon notice; but in such case, the order must be first entered with the clerk. And for the purpose of an appeal, any party, affected by such order, may require it to be entered with the clerk, and it must be entered accordingly.

CHAPTER V. APPEAL TO THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS OF THE CITY OF NEW-YORK, OR TO A COUNTY COURT, FROM AN INFERIOR COURT.

Manner of reviewing judgments.
Judgments to be reviewed by common pleas, and by county courts.
Appellant to make affidavit.
Copy affidavit and notice of appeal to be served.
Security to stay execution.
To be approved by judge or court below.
Security served stays execution.
In case of death of justice, to be filed.
Counter affidavits allowed.
Appeal may be heard on affidavits.
Return when and how made, and compelled.
In case justice be out of office.
Amended return may be required.
If justice be dead, witness to be examined.
Hearing, upon return.
Copies of papers not required on hearing.
Judgment how given.
Judgment roll.
Conclusive, unless another action is allowed.
Restitution may be ordered.
Costs set off in certain cases.
What costs are allowed. 

§ 1191. Judgments in civil cases, rendered by justices’ courts, and by the marine court of the city of New-York, may be reviewed, as prescribed by this chapter, and not otherwise.

§ 1192. When the judgment has been rendered by the marine court of the city of New-York, or by a justice’s court in that city, the appeal must be to the court of common pleas of the city of New-York; and when rendered by any of the other courts mentioned in the last section, to the county court of the county where the judgment was rendered.

§ 1193. The appellant must, within twenty days after the judgment, make, or cause to be made, an affidavit, stating the substance of the testimony and proceedings before the court below, and the grounds upon which the appeal is founded.

§ 1194. A copy of the affidavit must, within the same time, be served on the respondent, if he be a resident of the city or county, or can be found therein, personally, or by leaving it at his residence with some person of suitable age and discretion, or if he be not a resident, on the attorney or agent, if any, who appeared for him on the trial, and is a resident of such city or county, with a notice, stating that the appellant appeals from the judgment, and that the appeal will be heard by the appellate court, at a time and place therein designated, not less than six nor more than twenty days thereafter; which time may be in or out of term. When the notice cannot be thus served, the service may be made on the justice.

§ 1195. If the appellant desire a stay of execution of the judgment, he must give security as provided in the next section.

§ 1196. The security must be a written undertaking, executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the county judge, or by the court below, to the effect, that if judgment be rendered against the appellant, and execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the sureties will pay the amount unsatisfied.

§ 1197. The delivery of the undertaking to the court below stays the issuing of execution; or if it have been issued, the service of a copy of the undertaking, certified by the court below, upon the officer holding the execution, stays further proceedings thereon.

§ 1198. Where, by reason of the death of a justice, or his removal from the county, or any other cause, the undertaking on the appeal cannot be delivered to him, it must be filed with the clerk of the appellate court, and notice thereof given to the respondent, or his attorney or agent, as provided in section 1194, and it shall, thereupon, have the same effect as if delivered to the justice.

§ 1199. When the affidavit and notice of appeal have been served, the respondent may supply or correct material omissions or misstatements therein by an affidavit on his part, a copy of which must be served on the attorney, if any, who prosecutes the appeal, or if there be none, on the appellant, if to be found in the county, at least one day before the time for hearing the appeal.

§ 1200. The appellate court must proceed to hear the appeal, at the time and place mentioned in the notice, or at such other time as the court may appoint, and may decide the same upon the affidavits; or if they be contradictory or defective in material points, may order the court below to make a return of the testimony and proceedings before it, within ten days after the service of the order and affidavits, or of copies thereof.

§ 1201. The court below must thereupon, within the ten days, make a return to the appellate court of the testimony, proceedings and judgment, and file the same, with the order and affidavits, in the appellate court, and may be compelled to do so by the appellate court. But a justice is not bound to make a return, unless the fee prescribed by the last section of this chapter be paid on service of the order.

§ 1202. If the return be defective, the appellate court may direct a further or amended return, as often as may be necessary, and may compel a compliance with its order.

§ 1203. When a justice of the peace, by whom a judgment appealed from was rendered, shall have gone out of office, ‘or removed to another county, before a return is made, he must, nevertheless, make a return, in the same manner, and with the same effect, as if he were still in office, and may in the same manner be compelled to do so.

§ 1204. If a justice of the peace, whose judgment is appealed from, die, become insane, or remove from the state, the appellate court may examine witnesses on oath, respecting the facts of the trial or judgment, and determine the appeal, as if the facts had been returned by the justice.

§ 1205. If a return he made, the appeal may be brought to a hearing at a general term of the appellate, court, upon a notice by either party, of not less than eight days. It must be placed upon the calendar and continue thereon without further notice, until finally disposed of; but if neither party bring it to a hearing before the end of the second term, the court must dismiss the appeal, unless it continue the same, by special order, for cause shown.

§ 1206. The appeal whether heard on the affidavits or return, must be heard on the original papers; and no copy thereof need be furnished for the use of the court.

§ 1207. Upon the hearing of the appeal, the appellate court must give judgment upon the law and the facts, according to the justice of the case, without regard to technical errors or defects, which do not affect the merits. In case of a reversal, the court may allow another action for the same cause.

§ 1208. To every judgment upon an appeal there must be annexed the affidavits or return on which it was heard, which must be filed with the clerk of the court, and constitute the judgment roll.

§ 1209. When upon a reversal, another action is allowed the rights of the parties stand unaffected by the former action. If another action be allowed, a concise statement of the reasons thereforee must be filed with the clerk.

§ 1210. If the judgment below, or any part thereof, be collected and be afterwards reversed, the appellate court must order the amount collected to be restored with interest from the time of collection. The order may be obtained upon proof of the facts made at or after the hearing, upon a previous notice of six days.

§ 1211. If, upon an appeal, a recovery be had by one party, and costs be awarded to the other, the appellate court must set off the one against the other, and render judgment for the balance.

§ 1212. The following fees and costs, and no other, except fees of officers, are allowed on appeals; to the appellant, on reversal, if upon affidavits, ten dollars, if upon a return fifteen dollars. To the respondent, on affirmance, if upon affidavits, seven dollars, if upon a return, twelve dollars. To a justice of the peace, for his return one dollar. If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part, and affirmed as to the residue, the amount of costs allowed to either party, is such as the appellate court may award, not exceeding ten dollars. If the appeal be dismissed for want of prosecution, as provided by section 1205, no costs are allowed to either party.

TITLE XIII. OF THE MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS, IN CIVIL ACTIONS, AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Proceedings against joint debtors, heirs, legatees, devisees and tenants holding under a judgment debtor.
Offer of the defendant, to compromise the whole or part of the action.
Admission or inspection of writings.
Motions and orders.
Notices, and filing and service of papers.
General provisions.

CHAPTER I. PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS, HEIRS, DEVISEES, LEGATEES AND TENANTS HOLDING UNDER A JUDGMENT DEBTOR.

Parties not summoned in an action on joint obligation, may be summoned after judgment.
If judgment debtor die, his representatives may be summoned.
Contents of summons.
Affidavit of amount due required.
Party summoned may defend by answer.
Reply and trial as in other actions.
Reply and answer to be verified.

§ 1213. When a judgment is recovered against one or more of several persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding as provided in section 632, those who were not originally summoned to answer the complaint, may be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by the judgment, in the same manner as if they had been originally summoned.

§ 1214, In case of the death of a judgment debtor after judgment, the heirs, devisees, legatees or personal representatives of the judgment debtor, or the tenants of real property, owned by him and affected by the judgment, may be summoned to show cause why the judgment should not be enforced, against the estate of the judgment debtor in their hands respectively. The proceedings thereon are subject to the provisions of the chapter upon actions by or against executors, administrators, legatees, heirs and devisees.

§ 1215. The summons provided in the last two sections, must be subscribed by the judgment creditor, his representatives, or attorney, describe the judgment, and require the person summoned, to show cause, within twenty days after the service of the summons; and must be served in the same manner as the original summons.

§ 1216. The summons must be accompanied by an affidavit at the person subscribing it, that the judgment has not been satisfied, to his knowledge, or information and belief, and must specify the amount due thereon.

§ 1217. Upon such summons, the party summoned may answer within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any defense which may have arisen subsequently; and in addition thereto, if he be proceeded against according to section 1213, he may make the same defense which might have been originally made to the action, except the statute of limitations; if he be proceeded against according to section l214, he may make the same defense, which he might have made man action upon the judgment.

§ 1218. The party issuing the summons, may reply to the answer, if a counterclaim be set up therein, and the issue may be tried and judgment may be given, in the same manner as in an action, and enforced by execution, or the application of property charged, to the payment of the judgment, may, if necessary, be compelled by attachment.

§ 1219. The answer and reply must be verified in the same manner, and are subject to the same rules, as the answer and reply in an action.

CHAPTER II. OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR A PART OF THE ACTION.

Defendant may serve offer to compromise, and the proceedings thereon.
Defendant may offer to liquidate damages conditionally.
If plaintifff accept or refuse, the effect thereof.

§ 1220. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintifff, an offer to allow judgment to be taken against him, for the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified. If the plaintifff accept the offer, and give notice thereof, within ten days, he may file the summons, complaint and offer, with on affidavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and can not be given in evidence, and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay the defendant’s costs, from the time of the offer.

§ 1221. In an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant may, with his answer, serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing, that if he fail in his defense, the amount of the recovery be assessed at a specified sum; and if the plaintifff signify his acceptance thereof in writing, with or before the notice of trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the amount must be assessed accordingly.

§ 1222. If the plaintifff do not accept the offer, he must prove the amount to be recovered, as if the offer had not been made, and cannot be permitted to give it in evidence. And if the amount assessed in his favor do not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant may recover his expenses, incurred in consequence of any necessary preparation or defense in respect to the question of amount. Such expense must be ascertained at the trial.

CHAPTER III. ADMISSION OR INSPECTION OF WRITINGS.

A party may be required to admit a paper to be genuine, or pay expense of proving it.
A party may demand inspection and copy of a paper.

§ 1223. Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his attorney, at any time before the trial, any document or paper, material to the action, and request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to give the admission Within four days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the document or paper, be afterwards put to expense, in order to prove its genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial, such expense to be ascertained at the trial, must be paid by the party refusing the admission; unless it appear to the satisfaction of the court, that there were good reasons for the refusal.

§ 1224. The court before which an action is pending, or a judge thereof, or if the action be in the supreme court, a county judge may order either party to give to the other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of any book, document or paper in his possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book, document or paper from being given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges it to be; and the court may also punish the party refusing. This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents, when he is examined as a witness.

CHAPTER IV. MOTIONS AND ORDERS.

An order, defined.
A motion, defined.
Motions, how made.
Motions to be made in the district, or adjoining county.
When notice is necessary, it must be served eight days before hearing.
In actions in supreme court, county judge may act.
In the absence of judge, motion may be transferred.
Order for payment of money enforced by execution.
On motion, witness may be examined orally.
When answer admits part of claim, court may order it satisfied.

§ 1225. Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.

§ 1226. An application for an order is a motion.

§ 1227. All motions may be made to the court at a special term, except upon appeals. Motions may likewise be made to a judge out of court, as provided in other parts of this code.

§ 1228. Motions must be made within the district in which the action is triable, or in a county adjoining that in which it is triable, except that where the action is triable in the first judicial district, the motion must be made therein. Orders made out of court, without notice, may be made by any judge of the court, in any part of the state; and if the action be in the supreme court they may also be made by a county judge of the county where the action is triable, except to stay proceedings after a verdict. No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than twenty days, can be granted by a judge out of court, except upon previous notice to the adverse party.

§ 1229. When notice of a motion is necessary, it must be served eight days before the time appointed for the hearing; but the court or judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time.

§ 1230. In an action in the supreme court, a county judge, in addition to the powers conferred upon him by this code, may exercise, within his county, the powers of a judge of the supreme court out of court as provided in section 222. And in all cases where an order is made by a county judge, it may be reviewed in the same manner, as if it had been made by a judge of the supreme court.

§ 1231. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order to show cause provides for a motion, before a judge out of court, and at the time fixed for the motion, he is unable to hear it, the same may be transferred, by his order, to some other judge, before whom the motion might originally have been made.

§ 1232. Whenever an order for the payment of a sum of money is made by a court pursuant to a provision of this code, the same may be enforced by execution, in the same manner, as if it were a judgment, except that the person cannot be arrested unless specially directed in the order, not can real property be sold thereon, except in the cases where the same is by law a charge upon real property.

§ 1233. Upon a motion, any person present in court, whose affidavit or deposition would be admissible thereupon, may be orally examined.

§ 1234. When the answer of the defendant admits part of the plaintifff ’s claim to be just, the court, on motion, may order such defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the order, as it enforces a provisional remedy.

CHAPTER V. NOTICES, AND FILING, AND SERVICE OF PAPERS.

Notices and other papers, how served on party or attorney.
When and how served by mail.
Defendant applying entitled to notice.
Service of papers where party resides out of state.
Summons and pleadings, &c., to be filed.
Notice good, though title omitted.
This chapter not to apply to summons or process, or to papers to bring party into contempt.

§ 1235. Notices must be in writing; and notices and other papers may be served on the party or attorney, in the manner prescribed in the next three sections, where not otherwise provided by this code.

§ 1236. The service may be personal, or by delivery to the party or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as follows: 1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his office, by leaving the paper with his clerk therein, or with a person having charge thereof; or when there is no person in the office, by leaving it, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a conspicuous place in the office, or if it be not open, so as to admit of such service, then by leaving it at the attorney’s residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion. 2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at his residence, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion. 	

§ 1237. Service by mail may be made, where the person making the service, and the person on whom it is to be made, reside in different places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.

§ 1238. In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited in the post office; addressed to the person on whom it is to be served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid. And in such case, the time of service must be increased one day for every fifty miles distance between the place of the deposit and the place of the address.

§ 1239. A defendant appears in an action when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff written notice of his appearance. After appearance, otherwise than by answer, a defendant is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings, in the same manner as if he had answered. But where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers, in the ordinary proceedings in an action, need not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of bail.

§ 1240. Where a plaintifff, or a defendant who has appeared, resides out of the state, and has no attorney in the action, the service may be made by mail, if his residence be known, if not known, on the clerk for him. But where a party has an attorney in the action, the service of papers must be upon the attorney, instead of the party.

§ 1241. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do not apply to the service of a summons or other process, or of any paper to bring a party into contempt.

§ 1242. A notice or other paper is valid and effectual though the title of the action in which it is made, be omitted, or be defective either in respect to the court or parties, if it intelligibly refer to such action or proceeding, and, in furtherance of justice, upon proper terms, any other defect or error in any notice, or other paper or proceeding, may be amended by the court, and any mischance relieved within one year thereafter.

§ 1243. The various undertakings required to be given by this code and the affidavits and other written proceedings in an action, must be filed or entered in court, or with the clerk thereof, unless the court expressly provide for a different disposition thereof, except that the undertakings provided for by the chapter on the claim and delivery of personal property must after the justification of the sureties, be delivered by the sheriff to the parties respectively, for whose benefit they are taken. The summons, and the several pleadings in an action, must be filed with the clerk within ten days after the service thereof, respectively, or the adverse party, on proof of the omission, is entitled, without notice, to an order from a judge that the same be filed within a time specified in the order, or be deemed abandoned.

CHAPTER VI. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Papers lost or withheld, how supplied.
Successive actions on same contract.
Actions, when consolidated.
Action, when deemed pending.
Action to determine adverse claim.
Jurisdiction of court over persons.
Jurisdiction of court over corporations.
Jurisdiction of court over causes of action.
Action barred by limitation in another state, barred in this.
Register of actions, to be kept by clerk.
Authority conferred on several, majority may act.
Time, how computed.
Legal notice, how published.
Counsel to speak only an hour, without leave.
Persons prosecuting or defending, without probable cause, liable.
All existing rights of action prosecuted as prescribed in this code.

§ 1244. If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld by any person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and used instead of the original.

§ 1245. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract, or transaction, whenever after the former action, a new cause of action arises therefrom.

§ 1246. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time, between the same parties, and in the same court, upon causes of action which might have been joined, the court may order the actions to be consolidated into one.

§ 1247. An action is deemed to be pending, from the time of its commencement, until its final determination upon appeal, or until the time for an appeal has passed, and the judgment has been satisfied.

§ 1248. An action may be brought by one person against another, for the purpose of determining an adverse claim, which the latter makes against the former, for money or property, upon an alleged obligation; and also against two or more persons, for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the other, for which the plaintifff is bound as surety.

§ 1249. No natural person is subject to the jurisdiction of a court of this state, unless he appear in the court, or be found within the state, or be a resident thereof, or have property therein; and in the last case only to the extent of such property at the time the jurisdiction attached.

§ 1250. No corporation is subject to the jurisdiction of a, court of this state, unless it appear in the court, or have been created by, or under the laws of this state, or have an agency established therein for the transaction of some portion of its business, or have property therein, and in the last case only to the extent of such property at the time the jurisdiction attached.

§ 1251. When the court has jurisdiction of the parties, it may exercise it, in respect to any cause of action, wherever arising, except for the specific recovery of real property, situated out of this state, or an injury thereto, and except also as provided in section 988.

§ 1252. When a cause of action has arisen in a sister state, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof, an action thereon cannot there be maintained against a person by reason of the lapse of time, an action thereon cannot be maintained against him in this state, except in favor of a citizen thereof, who has had the cause of action from the time it accrued.

§ 1253. The clerk must keep among the records of the court, a register of actions. He must enter therein the title of the action, with brief notes under it, from time to time, of all papers filed, and proceedings had, therein.

§ 1254. When there are three referees, all must meet, but two of them may do any act which might be done by all; and whenever any authority is conferred on three or more persons, it may be exercised by a majority, upon the meeting of all, unless expressly otherwise provided by this code or by some other statute.

§ 1255. The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, must be computed, by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it must be excluded.

§ 1256. The publication of legal notices, required by law, or by an order of a judge or court, to be published in a newspaper once in each week, for a specified number of weeks, must be made on the first day of each week, in which such newspaper is published; and if required to be published oftener than once in each week, the second publication must be made on Thursday of each week, or if the paper be not issued and published on Thursday, then on any other day in the week on which such paper is issued. And in all cases, where a municipal corporation is required to publish legal notices, and may designate the papers in which the publication is to be made, it must make such designation annually, by ordinance, for one year, and after such designation, all such legal notices must be published in the papers so designated. The time for publication of legal notices must be computed so as to exclude the first day of publication, and to include the day on which the act or event, of which notice is given, is to happen, or which complete; the full period required for publication.

§ 1257. No counsel can be permitted to speak on the argument of any case, more than one hour, without the special leave of the court, granted before the argument begins.

§ 1258. A person, who, without probable cause, prosecutes an action or makes a defense, or takes any legal proceeding against another, is guilty of a contempt, and is also liable to an action thereforee, at the suit of the party aggrieved.

§ 1259. Rights of action, given or secured by existing laws, may be prosecuted in the manner provided by this code. If a case ever arise, in which an action for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this code, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted, so far as may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice.

TITLE XIV. PROVISIONS RESPECTING SUITS HERETOFORE COMMENCED.

§ 1260. The provisions of this code apply to future proceedings in actions or suits heretofore commenced and now pending, as follows, and not otherwise: 1. If there have been no pleading therein, to the pleadings and all subsequent proceedings: 2. When there is an issue of law or of fact, or any other question of fact to be tried, to the trial and all subsequent proceedings: 3. After a judgment or order, to the proceedings to enforce, vacate, modify or reverse it, including the costs of an appeal.

§ 1261. Whenever the judges of the supreme court, in any district, find, that the court, at any term or circuit, has not been or will not be able to dispose of all the cases upon the calendar, it shall be their duty to request the governor to assign other judges, and if necessary appoint extraordinary terms and circuits, for the purpose of disposing of such cases. The governor must thereupon make such assignment, and the judges assigned must hold the courts accordingly. This provision shall last, so long as any of the actions and suits now pending remain undetermined.

PART III. OF SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS. 

Of state writs.
Of summary proceedings.
Of the enforcement of liens.
Of the punishment of contempts.
Of assessments.
Of the voluntary dissolution of corporations.
Of proceedings in the courts of conciliation.
Of arbitrations.
Of proceedings in surrogates’ courts.
Of proceedings in cases of insolvency.
Of the admeasurement of dower.
Of miscellaneous proceedings and general provisions. 

PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS.

Parties designated as plaintifffs and defendants.
Judgment and order same meaning as in actions.

§ 1262. The party prosecuting a special proceeding, may be known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

§ 1263. A judgment in a special proceeding is the final determination of the rights of the parties therein. The definitions of a motion and an order in a civil action are applicable to similar acts in a special proceeding.

TITLE I. OF STATE WRITS.

State writs in general.
The writ of review of inferior jurisdictions.
The writ of mandate.
The writ of assessment of damages.
The writ of deliverance from imprisonment.
Appeals.

CHAPTER I. STATE WRITS IN GENERAL.

What are state writs.
Private party named as plaintifff with the people.
Writs enumerated.
How allowed.
Application thereforee, how made.
Writ of deliverance, by whom allowed.
When allowed, the proceedings in supreme court.

§ 1264. The writs heretofore known as prerogative writs, so far as they are hereafter to be recognized, shall be denominated state writs. They are issued out of the supreme court at the instance of the state, sometimes on behalf of private persons, for the protection of private rights, and sometimes for purposes of state. They are issued in the name of the people, under the seal of the court, and the signature of the clerk.

§ 1265. When issued on behalf of a private person, such person must be named as a party in the proceedings jointly with people.

§ 1266. These writs, four in number are defined and regulated in this title in the following order: 1. The writ of review of inferior jurisdictions: 2. The writ of mandate: 3. The writ of assessment of damages: 4. The writ of deliverance from imprisonment. The writ of quo warranto, the writ of scire facias, and writ of prohibition are abolished.

§ 1267. The allowance of the writ of review, the writ of mandate, and the writ of assessment, rests in the sound discretion of the court. The writ of deliverance, when regularly applied for, cannot be refused.

§ 1268. The application for a state writ must be made to the supreme court, at a special term, except as provided in the next section.

§ 1269. The writ of deliverance from imprisonment, commonly known as the writ of habeas corpus, may be allowed, not only by the supreme court at a special term, but, out of court, by a judge of the supreme court, a judge of the superior court of the city of New-York, a judge of the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, a county judge, or the city judge of the city of New-York.

§ 1270. After the allowance of the writ of deliverance, all the proceedings thereon, to the judgment, inclusive, are had in the supreme court. But the orders and judgment, respectively, may be entered, in the manner hereinafter provided, upon the certificate out of court, of any judge designated in the last section.

CHAPTER II. THE WRIT OF REVIEW OF INFERIOR JURISDICTIONS.

Writ of review defined.
Certificate of writ.
How, if stay of proceedings required.
Effect of the writ.
When granted.
Its extent.
How directed.
Motion thereforee.
Writ, how allowed.
If return defective, how return ordered.
Judgment roll, what constitutes.

§ 1271. The writ of certiorari, whether at common law or by statute, shall hereafter be known as the writ of review of inferior jurisdictions.

§ 1272. The writ of review must command the defendant to certify fully to the supreme court, at a specified time and place, and annex to the writ, a transcript of the record and proceedings, (describing or referring to them, with convenient certainty,) that the same may be reviewed by the supreme court; and requiring the party, in the mean time, to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.

§ 1273. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the words requiring the stay, may be omitted from the writ. These words may be inserted, or omitted, in the sound discretion of the court.

§ 1274. The effect of the writ is to remove, not the record, but the transcript thereof; thereforee, the power of the inferior court or officer is not suspended, not the proceedings stayed, unless an order to that effect be inserted in the writ.

§ 1275. The writ may be granted, wherever specially authorized by this code, and also in all cases where an inferior tribunal, board, or officer, exercising judicial functions, is alleged to have exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or officer; and where there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the court, any other plain, speedy and adequate remedy.

§ 1276. Except where otherwise expressly provided by this code or another statute, the review upon this writ cannot be extended further, than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board, or officer, has regularly pursued the authority of such tribunal, board or officer.

§ 1277. The writ may be directed to such tribunal, board, or officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record or proceedings to be certified.

§ 1278. The motion for the writ must be made upon affidavit, and the court may require a notice of the application to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to shew cause why it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.

§ 1279. The allowance of the writ must be endorsed thereon, signed by the judge granting it, and the writ must be served in the same manner, as a summons in a civil action, except where otherwise expressly provided.

§ 1280. If the return to the writ be defective, the court may order a further return to be made. When a full return has been made, the court must proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend for that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either affirming or annulling the proceedings below.

§ 1281. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, entered upon, or attached to, the writ and return, constitute the judgment roll. From the judgment, an appeal may be taken to the general term, and thence to the court of appeals, in the same manner and upon the same terms, as from a judgment in a single action.

CHAPTER III. THE WRIT OF MANDATE.

Writ of mandate defined.
To whom and for what issued.
Not issued, when there is an ordinary remedy.
Writ alternative or peremptory.
When peremptory writ allowed.
Proceedings as in case of writ of review.
Answer on return of writ.
If not answer, peremptory writ issued.
No pleading, but writ and answer.
Issues when tried.
If judgment for plaintifff, damages recovered.
Recovery of damages for action.
Fine may be imposed in certain cases.

§ 1282. The writ, heretofore known as the writ of mandamus, shall be hereafter denominated the writ of mandate. Such writ is defined and regulated as in this chapter prescribed.

§ 1283. It may be issued to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compel the performance of an act, which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station. But though it may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment or proceed to the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot control judicial discretion.

§ 1284. This writ ought not to be issued, in any case where there is a plain, speedy and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course of the law. It is issued, on the information of the party beneficially interested.

§ 1285. The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The alternative writ must state concisely the facts showing the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his omission to perform it, and command him, that immediately after the receipt of the writ, or a some other specified time, he do the act required to be performed, or show cause before the supreme court, at a specified time and place, why he has not done so; and that he then and there return the writ, with his certificate of having done as he is commanded. The peremptory writ must be in a similar form, except that the words requiring the defendant to show cause why he has not done as commanded, must be omitted.

§ 1286. When the right to require the performance of the act is clear, and it is apparent, that no valid excuse can be given for not performing it, a peremptory mandate may be allowed in the first instance. In all other cases, the alternative writ must be first issued.

§ 1287. The motion for the writ, the allowance, and the service thereof; and the enforcement of obedience thereto, must be in the same manner, as in case of the writ of review.

§ 1288. On the return day of the alternative writ, or such further day as the court may allow, the party, on whom the writ shall have been served, may show cause, by answer made, in the same manner as an answer to a complaint in a civil action.

§ 1289. If no answer be made, a peremptory mandate must be allowed against the defendant. If an answer be made, containing new matter, the same shall not in any respect conclude the plaintifff, who may on the trial or other proceedings avail himself of any valid objection to its sufficiency, or may countervail it by proof, either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

§ 1290. No other pleading, or written allegation, is allowed than the writ and answer. These are the pleadings in the case, and have the same effect, and are to be construed and may be amended, in the same manner, as pleadings in a civil action, and the issues thereby joined must be tried, and the further proceedings thereon had in the same manner, as in a civil action.

§ 1291. Issues joined in the case, must be tried in the county where the material facts set forth in the mandate are alleged to have occurred.

§ 1292. If judgment be given for the plaintifff, he shall recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to be ascertained by the court or a jury, or by referees, as in a civil action, together with costs and charges; and a peremptory mandate must also be awarded without delay.

§ 1293. A recovery of damages by virtue of this chapter, against a party, who shall have made a return to a writ of mandate, is a bar to any other action against the same party, for the making of such return.

§ 1294. Whenever a peremptory mandate is directed by a public officer, body, or board, commanding the performance of any public duty, specially enjoined by law, if it appear to the court that such officer, or any member of such body, or board, has, without just excuse refused or neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, upon every such officer or member of such body or board. Such line, when collected must be paid into the treasury; and the payment thereof is a bar to an action, for any penalty incurred by such officer or member of such body or board, by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.

CHAPTER IV. THE WRIT OF ASSESSMENT OF DAMAGES.

Writ of assessment defined.
When issued.
Sheriff to give notice.
Sheriff to summon jury.
Jury how to proceed.
Inquisition may be set aside.
When duly executed, order to be entered.
Damages paid out of treasury.
Amount paid into supreme court.
Owners may apply thereforee.
Like proceedings on property taken for United States.

§ 1295. The writ heretofore known as the writ of ad quod damnum, shall be hereafter denominated the writ of assessment of damages.

§ 1296. Whenever the governor of this state is authorized by law to take possession of real property, within this state, for the use of the people of the state, and he cannot agree with the owner for the purchase thereof, he must cause application to be made for a writ of assessment, which shall thereupon be issued to the sheriff of the county, where such real property is situated, unless the court direct such damages to be assessed by a jury of another county, commanding him to summon a jury to inquire whether the owners of the property, describing it, will sustain any, and what damage, by the taking of the property for the use of the state.

§ 1297. Upon such writ being delivered to the sheriff, he must give at least three weeks notice of the time and place of executing the same, by publishing a notice thereof in a newspaper printed in his county.

§ 1298. The sheriff must summon twelve qualified jurors in his county, to attend at such time and place, and must then and there administer to each of the jurors an oath, that he will diligently inquire, concerning the matter specified in the writ, and will give a true verdict, according to the best of his judgment.

§ 1299. After the jury shall have been duly sworn, they must proceed to view the property specified in the writ, and having heard the evidence offered, and duly considered the value of the property, they must assess the damages which the owner, or if there be several, which the respective owners, will sustain by being deprived thereof. They must make an inquisition signed by themselves, and by the sheriff, in which they must set forth the names of the several owners of the property, and the rights of each owner respectively, so far as the same can be ascertained by them, together with the amount to be paid thereforee by the people of this state, and to whom particularly; which inquisition the sheriff must forthwith return, together with the writ, to the supreme court.

§ 1300. The court must examine the inquisition, and if the same be partial or defective, may set the same aside, either wholly or in part, and may direct a new inquisition to be taken, to supply such defect.

§ 1301. Whenever the writ appears to have been duly executed, an order must be entered, declaring that the people of this state, on paying to the owner or into the supreme court, the amount assessed in the inquisition for damages, and also the costs and charges of the proceedings, shall be entitled to an absolute estate in such real property, as fully and effectually, as if the name had been conveyed to the people by the owner thereof; and immediately after the payment of such amount, the absolute title to such real property shall be vested in the people of this state.

§ 1302. The amount which may be necessary to pay the damages assessed, and the costs and expenses incurred under the provisions of this chapter, must be paid out of the treasury.

§ 1303. Upon the damages so assessed being paid into the supreme court, the court must make an order for the investment thereof and of the interest thereon, in permanent securities, for the benefit of the owners of the property taken, and must cause such securities to be transferred to them, or the amount of the money paid over to them, their guardians or legal representatives, whenever their rights are established.

§ 1304. Such owners may, at any time, apply to the supreme court, for the payment to them of such money, or the transfer of such securities: and such proceedings must be had thereon, as are necessary to ascertain the respective rights of the applicants, and to give notice to all persons who may be interested in the property taken, or in the money paid into court.

§ 1305. Whenever any real property shall be taken for the use of the United States, by the consent of the legislature of this state, and it becomes necessary to issue a writ of assessment, the like proceedings must be had, as are provided in this chapter.

CHAPTER V. THE WRIT OF DELIVERANCE FROM IMPRISONMENT.

Writ of habeas corpus to be known as writ of deliverance from imprisonment.
Who may prosecute it.
Who not entitled to prosecute it.
To whom application made.
Proof required in certain cases.
What application to state.
Writ to be granted without delay.
Contents of writ.
Writ may be made returnable before another officer.
Writ not to be disobeyed for defect of form.
If supreme court or judge know of illegal imprisonment, writ must issue, without application.
Contents of return.
Person to be produced.
If return be not full, warrant to issue.
If sheriff neglect, warrant to issue to coroner.
Precept to sheriff.
Cause of imprisonment inquired into.
If not legal cause shown, discharge granted.
Party to be remanded, in what cases.
In certain cases, party discharged.
Legality of certain order and process not inquired into.
On commitment for criminal offense, how to proceed.
Until judgment given, party how kept.
Notice, when to be given.
When notice to district attorney.
Return may be controverted.
In case of sickness, production of person dispensed with.
So in case of imprisonment, not bailable.
Judgment of discharge, if imprisonment illegal.
New writ in certain cases requiring production of person.
Obedience, how enforced.
Officer not liable to action, for disobeying.
Person once discharged, cannot be again imprisoned.
Judge re-committing, liable.
Transferring party to elude writ, a misdemeanor.
Party committing, also guilty.
Punishment on conviction.
In case of danger that party will be carried off, warrant to issue.
Arrest also of the person having the custody of the party.
Warrant, how executed.
Person to be committed, or bailed.
For refusing a copy of order, forfeiture of $200.
When attorney general or district attorney may apply for writ.
Writ, on whom served.
Writ, how served.
Duty to obey writ.
Charges of bringing up prisoner, may be ordered to be paid.
Within what time return to be made.
Question once adjudged, not to be re-examined.

§ 1306. The writ of habeas corpus ad subjiciendum, known in the constitution and statutes of this state as the writ of habeas corpus, is herein designated, and may hereafter be known, as the writ of deliverance from imprisonment. Every other writ of habeas corpus is abolished.

§ 1307. Every person, imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, within this state, for any criminal or supposed criminal matter, or under any pretense whatsoever, except in the cases specified in the next section, may prosecute a writ of deliverance, according to the provisions of this chapter, to inquire into the cause of such imprisonment or restraint; and if illegal, to be delivered therefrom.

§ 1308. The following persons are not entitled to prosecute the writ: 1. Persons committed or detained by virtue of process issued by a court of the United States, or a judge thereof, in cases where such courts or judges have exclusive jurisdiction, under the laws of the United States, or have acquired exclusive jurisdiction by the commencement of suits in such courts: 2. Persons committed or detained by virtue of the judgment of a competent tribunal, of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or by virtue of an execution issued upon such judgment, but no order of commitment for contempt, is to be deemed a judgment nor a warrant or other process, issued upon such an order, an execution, within the meaning of this section.

§ 1309. Application for the writ must be made in writing, signed, either by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some person in his behalf, as follows: 1. To the supreme court at a special term: 2. To any one of the judges of the supreme court, or any county judge, being or residing in the county where the party is detained; or, if there be no such officer within the county, or if he be absent, or for any cause incapable of acting, or have refused to grant the writ, then to such officer residing in an adjoining county: 3. In the city and county of New-York, to a judge of the superior court of the city of New-York, or a judge of the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, or the city judge of that city.

§ 1310. Whenever application for the writ is made to an officer, not residing within the county where the party is detained, he must require proof by the oath of the applicant, or by other sufficient evidence before granting the writ, that there is no officer in the county authorized to grant the writ, or if there he one that he is absent, or has refused to grant it, or for some cause to be specially set forth, is incapable of acting.

§ 1311. The application must state, in substance, 1. That the party, in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty, the place where, and the officer or person by whom, he is imprisoned or restrained, naming both parties, if their names be known, or describing them, if not known: 2. That such person is not imprisoned or restrained. by virtue of any order, judgment, or process, specified in section 1308: 3. The cause or pretense of such imprisonment or restraint, according to the best of the knowledge or belief of the applicant: 4. If the imprisonment or restraint be in virtue of an order, warrant, or process, a copy thereof must be annexed, or it must be alleged, that by reason of the removal or concealment of the party before the application, a demand of such copy could not be made, or such demand was made, and the legal fees thereforee tendered to the person having the party in his custody, and that a copy was refused: 5. If the imprisonment be alleged to be illegal, the application must also state in what the alleged illegality consists: 6. That the legality of the imprisonment has not been already adjudged, upon a prior writ of deliverance, to the knowledge or belief of the applicant: 7. It must be verified by the oath of the applicant, to the effect, that he believes it to be true.

§ 1312. Any court or judge, empowered to grant the writ, to whom such application is presented, must grant the writ, without delay, unless it appear from the application itself, or from the documents annexed, that the person applying thereforee, is, by the provisions of this chapter, prohibited from prosecuting the writ.

§ 1313. The writ of deliverance must command the defendant to produce the person imprisoned or restrained, by whatsoever name he may be called or charged, and certify and return therewith the time and cause of his imprisonment or restraint, before the supreme court, at a special term to be held at a specified time and place, or before the judge allowing the writ, or another judge as provided in the next section, at a specified, time and place, or immediately after the receipt of the, writ, to do and receive what shall then and there be considered concerning the person so imprisoned or restrained; Or when, for the reason hereinafter mentioned, the body need not be produced, the writ, instead of requiring the production of the person, may require the defendant to certify and return, the time and cause of the imprisonment or restraint.

§ 1314. If application for the writ be made to the supreme court, or a judge thereof, in a county other than that where the party is imprisoned, the writ may be made returnable before any officer authorized to grant the writ, in the county of the imprisonment.

§ 1315. The writ must not be disobeyed for any defect of form. It is sufficient, 1. If the person, having the custody of the party imprisoned or restrained, be designated either by his name of office, if he have any, or by his own name, or if both such names be unknown or uncertain, he may be described by an assumed appellation; and any one who may be served with the writ, is to be deemed the person to whom it was directed, although it may be directed to him by a wrong name or description, or to another person; 2. If the person, who is directed to be produced, be designated by name, or if his name be uncertain or unknown, he may be described in any other way, so as to designate the person intended.

§ 1316. Whenever the supreme court, or a judge thereof; has evidence from a judicial proceeding before such court or judge, that any person within the county where the court or judge may be, is illegally imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, it is the duty of such court or judge to issue a writ of deliverance for his relief, although no application be made for such writ.

§ 1317. The person, on whom the writ is served, must state his return plainly and unequivocally. 1. Whether he have or have not, the party in his custody or power, or under his restraint: 2. If he have the party in his custody or power, or under his restraint, the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint, setting forth the same at large : 3. If the party be detained, by virtue of a writ, warrant, or other written authority, a copy thereof must be annexed to the return, and the original must be prosecuted and exhibited, on the return of the writ to the court or judge to whom the same is returnable: 4. If the person on whom the writ shall have been served, shall have had the party in his custody or power, or under his restraint, at any time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ, but has transferred such custody or restraint to another, the return must state particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause, and by what authority such transfer took place. The return must be signed by the person making the same, and, except where he is a sworn public officer, and makes his return in his official capacity, it must be verified by his oath.

§ 1318. If the writ of deliverance require it, the person or officer on whom the writ shall have been served, must also produce the person in his custody or power, according, to the command of the writ, except in the case of the sickness of such party, as provided in section 1332.

§ 1319. If the person on whom the writ shall have been duly served, refuse or neglect to obey the same, by producing the party named therein, and making a full and explicit return thereto, within the time required, and no sufficient excuse be shown thereforee, it is the duty of the court or judge, before whom the writ was returnable, upon proof of the service thereof, forthwith to issue a warrant of arrest against such person, directed to the sheriff of any county within this state, and commanding him forthwith to arrest such person and to bring him before the court or judge; and on his being so brought, he must be committed to close custody, in the jail of the county, without being allowed the liberties thereof; until he makes return to the writ, and complies with any order that may be made in relation to the person, for whose relief the writ was issued.

§ 1320. If a sheriff shall have neglected to return the writ, the warrant may be directed to the coroner, or any other person designated therein, who shall have full power to execute the same; and the sheriff, upon being brought up, may be committed to the jail of any county other than his own.

§ 1321. The court or judge, by whom the warrant is issued, may also, at the same time, or afterwards, issue a precept to the sheriff, or other person to whom the warrant was directed, commanding him, to bring forthwith the party for whose benefit the writ of deliverance was granted; and he shall thereafter remain in the custody of such sheriff or person, until discharged or remanded.

§ 1322. The court or judge, before whom the party is brought, on the writ of deliverance, must immediately, alter the return thereof, examine into the facts contained in the return, and into the cause of the imprisonment or restraint of the party, whether the same shall have been upon commitment for any criminal, or supposed criminal, matter or not.

§ 1323. If no legal cause be shown for the imprisonment or restraint, or for the continuance thereof, that party must be discharged from the custody or restraint under which he is held.

§ 1324. The party, must be forthwith remanded, if it appear that he is detained in custody: 1. By virtue of process issued by a court or judge of the United States, in a case where such court or judge has exclusive jurisdiction: 2. By virtue of the judgment, of a competent court of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of an execution issued upon such judgment; or 3. By virtue of a warrant of commitment for a contempt, specially and plainly charged therein, and issued by a court, officer or body, having authority to commit for the contempt so charged, and 4. That the time, during which such party may be legally detained, has not expired.

§ 1325. If it appear on the return, that the party is in custody by virtue of an order or civil process, from a court legally constituted, or issued by an officer in the course of judicial proceedings before him, authorized by law, the party can be discharged in one of the following cases only: 1. Where the jurisdiction of such court or officer has Been exceeded, either as to matter, place, sum, or person: 2. Where, although the original imprisonment was lawful, yet by some subsequent act, omission, or event, the party has become entitled to his discharge: 3. Where the order or process is defective in some matter of substance required by law, rendering it void: 4. Where the order or process, though in proper form, has been issued in a case not allowed by law: 5. Where the person, having the custody of the prisoner under such order or process, is not the person empowered by law to detain him: or 6. Where the order or process is not authorized by a judgment, or order of a court, or by any provision of law.

§ 1326. But no court or judge, on the return of a writ of deliverance, has power to inquire into the legality or justice of any order, judgment, or process, specified in section 1308, nor into the justice or propriety of any commitment for a contempt, made by a court, officer, or body, according to law, and charged in such commitment, as provided in this code.

§ 1327. If it appear, that the party has been legally committed for a criminal offense, or if he appear by the testimony offered with the return, or upon the hearing thereof; to be guilty of such an offense, although the commitment be irregular, he may be forthwith remanded to the custody, or placed under the restraint, from which he was taken, if the person under whose custody or restraint he was, be legally entitled thereto; if not so entitled, he must be committed, to the custody of the officer or person so entitled.

§ 1328. Until judgment be given upon the return, the party may be either committed to the custody of the sheriff of the county or placed in such care or under such custody, as his age and other circumstances may require.

§ 1329. When it appears from the return to the writ, that the party is in custody on an order or process, under which another person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment, or restraint, no order can be made for his discharge, until the party so interested, or his attorney, has had the same notice of the return as is required to be given of motions in the supreme court.

§ 1330. When it appears from the return, that the party is detained upon a criminal accusation, the court or judge can make no order for his discharge until sufficient notice of the return is given to the district attorney of the county, where the party is detained.

§ 1331. The party produced, on the return of a writ of deliverance, may deny any of the material facts set forth in the return, or may allege any fact, to show, either that his imprisonment or restraint is unlawful, or that he is entitled to his discharge; which allegation or denial must be on oath; and, thereupon, the court or judge must proceed in a summary way, to hear such evidence as may be produced, in support of the imprisonment or detention, or against the same, and to dispose of the party, as the justice of the case may require.

§ 1332. Whenever, from the sickness or infirmity of the party, he cannot, without danger, be produced, the person in whose custody he is, may state that fact in his return to the writ, verifying the same by his oath; and if satisfied of the truth of the allegation, and the return be otherwise sufficient, the court or judge must proceed to decide on the return, and to dispose of the matter in the same manner, as if the party had been produced.

§ 1333. Whenever an application is made for a writ of deliverance, according to the provisions of this chapter, if it appear, upon the face of the application, that the cause, or offense, for which the person is imprisoned or restrained, is not bailable, the production of the party, may be dispensed with though such production be asked, and the writ be issued accordingly.

§ 1334. If it appear, that the party detained is illegally imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, judgment must be given that he be forthwith discharged: otherwise the application must be dismissed.

§ 1335. Notwithstanding the issuing of the writ of deliverance without requiring the production of the person, the court or judge before whom the same was returnable, may, before final decision, issue a new writ, requiring the production of the person.

§ l336. Obedience to a judgment, for the discharge of a person restrained of his liberty, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the court or judge, by proceedings for a contempt, in the same manner, and with the same effect, as for a neglect to make return to a writ of deliverance; and the person found guilty of such disobedience, shall forfeit to the party aggrieved, one thousand dollars, in addition to any special damages which he may have sustained.

§ 1337. No sheriff or other officer is liable to a civil action, for obeying such judgment of discharge.

§ 1338. No person who has been discharged, upon a writ of deliverance, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, can be again imprisoned, restrained, or kept in custody, for the same cause; but it is not to be deemed the same cause. 1. If he have been discharged from a commitment on a criminal charge, and be afterwards committed for the same offense, by the legal order or process of the court, wherein he is bound, by recognizance or undertaking, to appear, or in which he is indicted or convicted for the same offense: or, 2. If, after a discharge for a defect of evidence, or for a material defect in the commitment, in a criminal case, the party be again arrested, on sufficient evidence, and committed by legal process, for the same offense: or, 3; If, in a civil action, the party have been discharged for any illegality in the judgment or process, herein before specified, and be afterwards imprisoned by legal authority, for the same cause of action: or, 4. If, in a civil action, he have been discharged from commitment on an order of arrest, and be afterwards committed on execution, in the same action, or on an order of arrest in another action, after such first action has been dismissed.

§ 1339. If any person, either solely or as a member of a court, in the execution of a judgment, order, or process, knowingly recommit, imprison, or restrain of his liberty, for the same cause, except as provided in the last section, any person so discharged, or knowingly direct or assist therein, he shall forfeit to the party aggrieved one thousand dollars, and be also guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 1340. Any person having in his custody or power, or under his restraint, a party, who, by the provisions of this chapter, would be entitled to a writ of deliverance or for whose relief a writ of deliverance has been issued, who, with intent to elude the service of the writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, transfers the party to the custody, or places him under the power or control, of another, or conceals or changes the place of his confinement, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 1341. Every person who knowingly assists, in the violation of the last section, is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 1342. Every person, convicted of an offense under either of the last four sections, may be punished by fine and imprisonment, or both, in the discretion of the court, in which he is convicted; but such fine cannot exceed one thousand dollars, nor such imprisonment six months.

§ 1343. Whenever it appears by satisfactory evidence that any person is held in illegal confinement, and that there is reason to believe, that he will be carried out of the state, or suffer irreparable injury before he can be relieved, by the issuing of a writ of deliverance, any court or judge, authorized to issue such writ, may issue a warrant, directed to any sheriff, constable or other person, reciting the facts, and commanding such officer or person to take the party and forthwith to bring him before the court or judge.

§ 1344. When the evidence, mentioned in the last section, is also sufficient to justify an arrest of the person having the party in his custody, as for a criminal offense committed in the taking or detaining of the party, the warrant must also contain an order for the arrest of such person for the offense.

§ 1345. Any officer or person, to whom the warrant is directed, must execute the same, by bringing the prisoner therein named, and the person who detains him, if so commanded by the warrant, before the court or judge issuing it ; and thereupon the person, detaining the party, must make a return in the same manner, and the same proceedings must be had thereon as if a writ of deliverance had been issued in the first instance.

§ 1346. If the person, having the party in his custody; be brought before the court or judge, as for a criminal offense, he must be examined, committed, bailed or discharged, by the court or judge in the same manner as in other criminal cases of the like nature.

§ 1347. Any officer or other person refusing to deliver a copy of an order, warrant, process, or other authority, by which he detains a person, to any one who demands it, and tenders the fees thereforee, shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the person so detained.

§ 1348. Whenever a writ of deliverance is required, in any action or matter, civil or criminal, to which the people of this state are a party, the application thereforee may be made by the attorney general, or by the district attorney having charge thereof, and whenever so issued, the court or judge allowing it, must state in the endorsement of the allowance, that it was issued on such application.

§ 1349. A writ of deliverance must be served by an elector of this state, and the service thereof is not deemed complete, unless the person, serving it, tenders to the person, in whose custody the prisoner may be, if such person be a sheriff; coroner, constable or marshal the fees allowed by law for bringing up the party, nor unless he also give an undertaking to such officer, to the effect that the charges of carrying back the party if remanded, shall be paid, and that he shall not escape by the way, either in going to or returning from the place to which he is to be taken. But this section does not apply to a case, where the writ is issued on the application of the attorney general, or by the district attorney.

§ 1350. The writ of deliverance may be served, by delivering the same to the person to whom it is directed, or if he cannot be found, by leaving it at the jail, or other place, in which the party is confined, with any under officer or other person of proper age, having charge for the time, of such party.

§ 1351. If the person, on whom the writ ought to be served, conceal himself, or refuse admittance to the person attempting to serve it, it may be served by affixing it, or a copy thereof, in some conspicuous place on the outside, either of his dwelling house, or of the place where the party is confined.

§ 1352. It is the duty of every sheriff, coroner, constable or marshal, upon whom a writ of deliverance has been served, whether such writ be directed to him or not, upon payment or tender of the fees allowed by law, and the delivery or tender of the undertaking herein prescribed, to obey and return the writ, according to the exigency thereof; and it is the duty of every other person, upon whom the writ is served, having the custody of the person, for whose benefit it is issued, to obey and return it according to the command thereof, without requiring any undertaking, or the payment of any fees, unless the payment of such fees has been required by the judge issuing the writ.

§ 1353. Every judge, allowing a writ of deliverance directed to a person other than a sheriff, coroner, constable or marshal, may, in his discretion, require in order to render the service effectual, that the charges of bringing up party, be paid by the applicant; and in such case he must, in the allowance of the writ, specify the amount of such charges, which cannot exceed the fees allowed by law to sheriffs for similar services.

§ 1354. If the writ be returnable at a certain time, such return must be made, and the party produced, at the time and place specified therein; if it be returnable forthwith, and the place be within twenty miles of the place of service, the return must be made and the party produced within twenty-four hours, and the same time is allowed for every additional twenty miles.

§ 1355. No question once finally adjudged upon a writ of deliverance, can be re-examined upon a subsequent writ of deliverance.

CHAPTER VI. APPEALS.

Appeal, in what cases allowed.
Appeal, how taken.
Clerk to transmit papers to appellate court.
What appellate court may review.
Appellate court may reverse, affirm, or modify, or order new trial.
Appellant to furnish papers.
Undertaking to be executed.

§ 1356. An appeal may be taken to the general term of the supreme court from an order refusing a state writ. For that purpose, it the order have been made by a judge out of court, it must be first entered with the clerk.

§ 1357. An appeal may be taken to the general term of the supreme court from the judgment after the allowance of a state writ.

§ 1358. The appeal, mentioned in the last two sections, must be taken within sixty days after written notice of the judgment or order is given to the party appealing. The appeal is made by the service of a notice in writing on the adverse party, and on the clerk with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, stating the appeal from the same or some specified part thereof.

§ 1359. Upon the appeal being perfected, the clerk with whom the notice of appeal is filed, must, at the expense of the appellant, forthwith transmit to the appellate court, a certified copy of the notice of appeal, and of the judgment or order appealed from, with all papers relating thereto.

§ 1360. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the appellate court may review any intermediate order, involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the judgment.

§ 1361. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment or order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and may, when it is necessary or proper, order a new trial.

§ 1362. The appellant must furnish the appellate court with copies of the notice of appeal, and of the judgment or order appealed from, and of all other papers transmitted with it, to the appellate court. If he fail to do so, the appeal may be dismissed.

§ 1363. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written undertaking must be executed, on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs and damage that may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, or that sum must be deposited with the clerk, with whom the judgment or order appealed from was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. The undertaking must be filed with the clerk.

TITLE II. OF SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS.

Confession of judgment without action.
Submitting a controversy without action.
Summary proceedings for collecting debts in certain cases.
Summary proceedings for foreclosing mortgages of real property.
Summary proceedings for obtaining possession of real property in certain cases.

CHAPTER I. CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT, WITHOUT ACTION.

Judgment on debt, or liability authorized.
Statement, what it must contain.
To be filed, and clerk to enter judgment.
How in justices’ court.
How on bond and warrant of attorney executed before July, 1848.

§ 1364. A judgment by confession may be entered, without action, either for money due, or to become due, or to secure any person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed by this chapter.

§ 1365. A statement in writing must be made, signed by the defendant and verified by his oath, to the following effect: 1. It must authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum: 2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and must show that the sum confessed thereforee is justly due, or to become due: 3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and must show, that the sum confessed thereforee does not exceed the same.

§ 1366. The statement may be filed with a county clerk, or with the clerk of the superior court of the city of New-York, or the clerk of the court of common pleas of the city of New-York, who must endorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book, a judgment of the supreme or superior court or court of common pleas, for the amount confessed, with five dollars costs. The statement and affidavit with the judgment endorsed, thereupon become the judgment roll.

§ 1367. In a justice’s court where the court has authority to enter the judgment, the statement may be filed with the justice, who must thereupon enter in his docket, a judgment of his court, for the amount confessed, with one dollar costs. If a transcript of such judgment be filed with the county clerk, a copy of the statement must be filed with it.

§ 1368. Upon a bond and warrant of attorney executed and delivered before the first day of July, 1848, judgment may be entered in the manner provided by sections 1364, 135 and 1366, upon the plaintifff’s filing such bond and warrant of attorney, and a statement signed and verified by himself, in the form prescribed by section 1365, the amount of the judgment to be limited to the sum mentioned in the plaintifff’s statement, with five dollars costs.

CHAPTER II. SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY, WITHOUT ACTION.

Parties may submit controversy without action.
Judgment on, same as in other cases, but without costs.
Judgment may be enforced, or appealed from, as in an action.

§ 1369. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same, to any court which would have jurisdiction, if an action had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit, that the controversy is real, and the proceeding in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The court must thereupon hear and determine the case, at a general term, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.

§ 1370. Judgment must be entered in the judgment book, as in other cases, but without costs, for any proceeding prior to notice of trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment constitute the judgment roll.

§ 1371. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner, as if it had been rendered in an action, and is in the same manner subject to appeal.

CHAPTER III. SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS FOR COLLECTING DEBTS IN CERTAIN CASES.

Summary proceeding, in what cases.
If original party deceased, personal representatives substituted.
Complaint to be made.
Notarial certificate to be annexed in certain cases.
Copy complaint served personally, with notice.
At time and place specified, judgment to be ordered, unless answer be presented.
Judgment entered.
If answer made, case to be put on calendar.
If part of claim only be denied, the rest to be paid.
Notwithstanding answer, plaintifff may have attachment.
Defendant may prevent attachment, by security.
Proceedings on attachment.

§ 1372. The summary proceedings provided in this chapter may be taken for a sum of money actually due, upon a contract hereafter made, in the following cases: 1. Upon a bond conditioned for the payment of money only, against the obligor, and in favor of the obligee: 2. Upon a negotiable promissory note, against the maker, endorser, or guarantor, and in favor of the holder, who has received the same in good faith before maturity, for a valuable consideration, and without notice of any defense: 3. Upon a negotiable draft or bill of exchange, against the drawer, endorser, acceptor, or guarantor, and in favor of the holder, who has received the same in good faith, before maturity, for a valuable consideration, and without notice of any defense: 4. Upon a judgment of a sister state, against the judgment debtor, and in favor of the judgment creditor:

§ 1373. If in any of the cases mentioned in the last section, the oblige, holder, judgment creditor, or prevailing party be dead, the proceeding may be taken by his personal representatives.

§ 1374. A complaint must be made and verified, as in an action, showing that the -case is one of those mentioned in section 1372. The original instrument, or a copy of the record, if the proceeding be upon a judgment, must be annexed to the complaint, or if already filed in a court of this state, a copy thereof may be annexed, instead of the original.

§ 1375. If the complaint be against the endorser of a promissory note, or the drawer or endorser of a draft or bill of exchange, there must also be annexed to the complaint an original notarial certificate, showing the due presentment of the note, draft, or bill of exchange to the maker or acceptor thereof, and due notice of nonpayment to the defendant, or a written waiver by the defendant of the presentment and notice.

§ 1376. A copy of the complaint and annexed paper must be served by the sheriff, on the defendant, or on any of the several defend ants jointly indebted, by delivering as in the service of a summons in a civil action, with a notice in writing, from the plaintifff or his attorney, that the complaint will be presented, for judgment thereon, to a judge of the court, or, if the complaint be entitled in the supreme court, to a county judge, at a specified time and place; the time to be not less than forty-eight hours after the service, and the place to be within the county, where the service is made, and where the defendant has his place of residence or business.

§ 1377. At the place and time specified, on presenting to the judge the complaint and notice, with a certificate of the service thereof, mentioning the time and place of the service, the judge must endorse on the complaint, an order that judgment be entered for the amount appearing to be due, specifying it; unless the defendant then present a sufficient answer to the complaint, made as in an ordinary action, and verified by himself.

§ 1378. At any time within three days after the making of such order, the complaints and annexed papers may be filed with the clerk, who must endorse upon it and enter in the judgment book a judgment of the court, for the amount ordered, with five dollars costs. The complaint, affidavit, and papers annexed with the judgment endorsed upon the complaint, thereupon become the judgment roll.

§ 1379. If a sufficient answer be presented, the judge must endorse on the complaint an order that, within five days, the same be filed with the answer, and any reply that the plaintifff may desire to make to any counterclaim in the answer, and that the issue thus joined be forthwith placed upon the calendar for trial, if a circuit or term of the court be then in session, or if not, then at the next session thereof. Upon the filing of the pleadings, the proceeding becomes an action pending in the court, to be tried, without further notice, and all subsequent proceedings therein must be the same as in other actions.

§ 1380. If a part only of the claim be denied by the answer, the judge may make an order that the residue be forthwith paid; and that the issue as to the residue be tried, as prescribed in the last section.

§ 1381. Notwithstanding such answer, the plaintifff may have an attachment against the property of the defendant, to be granted by the judge, upon an undertaking executed on the part of the plaintifff, by at least two sufficient sureties, who must justify as bail are required to justify, and be approved by the judge, to the effect, that the plaintifff will pay to the defendant such damages as he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if it finally appear upon a defense by the defendant, that he was not liable to the plaintifff, in any amount, or if it appear that he was not liable to the amount of the attachment, then such damages as he may sustain by reason of the excess of the judgment.

§ 1382. The defendant, however, may prevent the issuing of such attachment, by delivering to the plaintifff or to the judge, an undertaking, executed and approved as provided in the last section, to the effect, that the sureties will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment, that may be rendered in the action, upon the cause of action mentioned in the complaint.

§ 1383. Such attachment must be issued and executed in the same manner as attachments issued pursuant to the chapter on attachment, and all the provisions of that chapter, apply to the attachment issued, under section 1381.

CHAPTER IV. SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS FOR FORECLOSING OF REAL PROPERTY.

Mortgage to secure payment of money only, may be foreclosed under this chapter.
Notice of foreclosure and sale, its contents.
Publication and service of the notice.
Postponement of sale, how made and published.
The sheriff to attend sale on request.
Manner of sale, time and place.
Notice to be given of application, to confirm sale.
Terms of sale, and manner of payment.
Proof requisite on the application to confirm.
Proofs of publication, serving and posting.
Judge to correct amount, and determine regularity.
Order of confirmation, its contents.
Power to amend or vacate. Effect of omission to serve notice, and of vacating sale.
When persons cannot be found, the publication and posting good service.
Order of confirmation with evidence, to be recorded.
Action may be brought contesting the right or amount claimed, and injunction allowed.
Junior encumbrances may pay the mortgage, and require assignment.
Judge to direct disposition of proceeds.
Judge’s order subject to appeal.
When part only is due, and part sold, another sale may afterwards be had.
When part only is due, and there is a surplus.
Mortgages to the state included.
Costs on summary foreclosure.

§ 1384. A mortgage of real property, to secure the payment of money only, and duly recorded in the county where the property is situated, may, at any time after default in the payment of principal or interest, be enforced by foreclosure and sale, as provided in this chapter. In all other cases the foreclosure of mortgages of real property, must be by action; and nothing in this section takes away the right of a party to foreclose by action in every case, at his option.

§ 1385. A notice that the mortgage will be foreclosed and the property therein described sold, must be given, as hereinafter prescribed, and must specify, 1. The names of the mortgagor and mortgagee, and of the several assignees, if any: 2. The date of the mortgage, the county where, and the time when it was recorded: 3. The amount due thereon, at the time of the first publication thereof and if the whole be not then due, the amount of principal to become due thereafter: 4. A description of the mortgaged property, conforming substantially to that contained in the mortgage: 5. The time and place of sale, specifying the day and hour, the town, city, or village and the particular house or place therein. The notice must be subscribed with the name of the party who is the owner of the mortgage, or to whom the payment is due, in respect to which default has been made.

§ 1386. The notice must be published and served as follows : 1. By publishing the same for six weeks successively, once in each week, in a newspaper printed and published in the county where the property, or some part thereof, is situated; if the property lie in a city or village, and a newspaper be published therein, the publication to be made in such a paper: 2. By serving a copy of the notice on the mortgagor, and on persons having an interest or lien in the mortgaged premises, subsequent to the mortgage, or their personal representatives, by delivery in the manner of serving a summons in a civil action; or, if the person upon whom the service is to be made, does not reside in this state, or cannot on due diligence be found therein, but his place of residence is known, or can on diligent inquiry be ascertained, by delivery thereof to some person of suitable age and discretion, at the dwelling house of such persons respectively, or by depositing the same in the post office properly enveloped and addressed to such persons, at their several places of residence ; the service in all cases to be at least three weeks before the time appointed for the sale: 3. By posting copies of the notice in three public places of the town, city or village where the property, or some portion thereof is situated, at least five weeks before the time specified therein for the sale.

§ 1387. At the time and place specified in the notice, the sale may be postponed on the request of any person claiming an interest in the premises, or for want of bidders, by a public announcement of the postponement, and publishing notice thereof; as soon as practicable, in the same newspaper, at the foot of the original notice, specifying the time and place to which the postponement is made, and continuing the notice until the time appointed therein for the sale. It may be again postponed, and from time to time in the same manner, but no costs or fees for making such postponement, or publishing or continuing the notice, can be a charge on the mortgaged property.

§ 1388. The sheriff of the county must, upon request, attend either in person or by deputy, at the time and place of sale, to superintend the sale, and to receive and keep the money or securities paid or deposited thereon.

§ 1389. The sale must be by public auction, between the hours of nine in the forenoon, and four in the afternoon. If the mortgaged property be situated in a city or village, the sale must be therein, otherwise it may be in any part of the county where the property lies. If the property be a farm, or distinct lot, lying partly in two or more counties, the sale must be in the county where the mansion house, or chief building on the property is situated, or if there be none, or two or more in different counties, the sale may be in either county. If the property consist of distinct farms or parcels, they must be sold separately, but when a part has been sold for sufficient to satisfy the amount due and costs, another parcel cannot be sold.

§ 1390. Immediately after the last parcel is struck off, the sheriff or auctioneer must give public notice of the time and place at which application will be made to a judge to confirm the sale, which time must be not less than three nor more than ten days thereafter.

§ 1391. The mortgagee, or his assignee, may prescribe the terms of sale, and may give time for the payment of the whole or part of the purchase money due him, and may become the purchaser on such sale. IN place of payment of the purchase money to the sheriff, the purchaser may deliver to him the receipt of the owner of the mortgage thereforee, to the extent of the amount due him thereon, which receipt must be returned with the papers to the judge, on the application for confirmation. The sheriff, and his sureties, shall be responsible for all monies paid to him on such sale, in the same manner as for money collected on execution, and he must dispose of such money as the judge may direct.

§ 1392. Upon the application for confirmation, there must be produced before the judge the original mortgage, and any bond or collateral contract for the payment of the same money, or proof of their loss or destruction, together with evidence: 1. Of the amount due on the mortgage at the time of the sale, after allowing all payments thereon: 2. Of the publication, service and posting of notices, as provided in sections 1385 and 1386, and every postponement, and notice thereof, and its publication, as provided in section 1387, and also the service of the copies of the notice, specifying upon whom, and when and how made: 3. That the property was fairly sold to the highest bidder, by public auction, at the time and place specified in the notice of sale or postponement, specifying the several parcels sold, the person to whom sold, the amount at which each parcel was struck off, and the order in which they were sold, the amount paid by such purchaser, and the receipt, if any, given by the holder of the mortgage, and the fact, that notice was publicly given of application for the confirmation, at a specified time and place.

§ 1393. The proof mentioned in subdivisions one and two of the last section, must be by affidavit of the party foreclosing: that of publication, by affidavit of the printer of the newspaper, or his foreman: that of posting and serving notices, and of postponing the sale, by affidavit of the person who performed the service; or if made by any other person, reasons satisfactory to the judge, why they were not made by the persons above designated, must be shown in the affidavits.

§ 1394. Upon the application for confirmation, or upon a day to which it may be adjourned, the judge, may correct any error that may appear in the statement of the amount due on the mortgage; and for that purpose may examine witnesses, or receive other evidence. If it appear to his satisfaction, by the evidence, and by inspection of the mortgage, or other collateral contract, that the holder was entitled to foreclose by reason of default in payment, and that all the proceedings have been in conformity with this chapter, he must confirm the foreclosure and sale, by an order indorsed on or attached to, the affidavits or certificate and to be filed and recorded therewith in the office of the county clerk.

§ 1395. The order of confirmation must show 1. The names of all the persons upon whom it appears that the notice was duly served: 2. The amount due, and the amount of costs to which the party foreclosing is entitled: 3. The whole amount for which the property was sold, stating the surplus, if any, or the deficiency, if any, remaining due on the mortgage, and unsatisfied by the sale: 4. If there be payments to become due, unsatisfied by the sale, and also other property mortgaged and not sold, it must be so stated: 5. It must direct that the foreclosure and sale be confirmed, and that the evidence with the order, be filed and recorded.

§ 1396. If the evidence be defective it may be amended or supplied. If it appear, that one or more parcels were sold, after a sum had been raised sufficient to satisfy the amount due with costs, the sale as to those parcels may be vacated, and in other respects confirmed. The omission to serve notice on persons other than the mortgagor, and his personal representatives, shall not affect the validity of the foreclosure and sale, in respect to the persons upon whom the notice was served. But a sale not confirmed as provided in this chapter is void, any money paid thereon must be restored, and the judge by order may enforce the restoration.

§ 1397. When a person, upon whom notice is required to be served, as provided in section 1386, cannot be found, and his place of residence is unknown, and cannot on diligent inquiry be ascertained, and that fact is upon the application, to confirm the sale, made to appear, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the judge, the publication and posting of the notice, shall, be deemed, a good service on such person and his name must be inserted in the order of confirmation accordingly.

§ 1398. The evidence with the order endorsed or attached, must be filed and recorded at length in the office of the clerk of the county, where the land was sold, and thereupon operates as a conveyance of the title of both the mortgagor and mortgagee to the purchaser, and, as a foreclosure of the equity of redemption of every person, upon whom the notice was served as determined in the order of confirmation, whose interest is derived from the mortgagor subsequent to the mortgage, or from a lien attached since that time.

§ 1399. The right of a party to enforce or foreclose a mortgage, as provided in this chapter, or the validity of the mortgage, or the amount due thereon, may be contested by action, brought at any time before the sale in favor of any party interested, against any party who may attempt or threaten such foreclosure. In such action proceedings on the summary foreclosure may be stayed by injunction on such terms, as the court may direct, and in the action the court may complete the foreclosure, or not, in its discretion.

§ 1400. At any time prior to the sale, any person having an interest or lien upon the property, subsequent to the mortgage, may assume the same, by paying to the holder the amount secured and interest, with the costs already incurred, together with the amount of any lien of the same holder subsequent to the mortgage, and prior to that of the person offering to assume it; and he shall thereupon be entitled to an assignment of the mortgage and of such subsequent lien, and may proceed in the foreclosure or discontinue it, at his option.

§ 1401. Upon the application to confirm the sale, or at such other time as the judge may then appoint, he must proceed to determine in a summary manner, the right of any person entitled to an interest in surplus money arising on a sale. He must also make such order as may be necessary for the disposition of any money in the sheriff’s hands. His orders in the case may be enforced in the same manner as orders in actions, and disobedience thereof may be punished in the same manner.

§ 1402. The order of a judge respecting the payment or distribution of money arising upon the sale of mortgaged property, pursuant to this chapter, is subject to appeal to the supreme court, in the same manner as an order refusing a state writ.

§ 1403. When a part of the money secured by the mortgage only is due, and part of the property remains unsold, the mortgage may, for any subsequent default, be again foreclosed, as to the remainder of such property, and a sale thereof made as at first.

§ 1404. When there is a surplus, arising on the sale, beyond the amount due, with costs, and there remains a sum, secured by the mortgage, yet to become due, the holder of the mortgage is entitled to receive such surplus, to be applied to the amount next to become due, the proper rebate of interest being made. If he refuse to receive the surplus, it may, by order of the judge be paid to the person next entitled.

§ 1405. Mortgages to the people of the state, may be foreclosed as provided in this chapter.

§ 1406. The costs of summary foreclosure, pursuant to this chapter, and to be retained out of the proceeds of the sale, are as follows: 1. The printer’s fees allowed by law for publishing notices; 2. The clerk’s fees allowed by law for necessary searches to ascertain interests and liens subsequent to the mortgage; 3. For posting and filing notices, one dollar; 4. For service, otherwise than through the post office, of a copy of notice on the mortgagor and other persons, not exceeding five, one dollar each; for all over five, fifty cents each: 5. For service on each person served only through the post office, twenty-five cents: 6. For all other services, prior to the day of sale, five dollars: 7. For attending the sale, and all services to the day of application for confirmation, five dollars: 8. For attending the judge for confirmation, and all subsequent services, five dollars; 9. The clerk’s fees allowed by law for recording evidence and order of confirmation; 10. Sheriff’s fees upon the sale, for the first parcel sold, three dollars; for every subsequent parcel, separately sold, one dollar; for attending before the judge on the application for confirmation with money received on the sale, two dollars; and for all money actually received by him on the sale and paid over, one-half of one per cent.

CHAPTER V. SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS FOR OBTAINING POSSESSION OF REAL PROPERTY IN CERTAIN CASES.

Forcible entry defined and forbidden.
Restoration required after forcible eviction.
Landlord restored to possession, when tenant deserts.
In what cases tenant may be removed.
Proceeding by complaint and action or order.
Manner of service by an officer.
Proceeding on return of summons.
Defendant may put in answer.
Questions to be tried by justice or jury.
Judgment of removal, when made.
Warrant thereon.
Trial may be adjourned.
Effect of removal upon the lease.
When tenant may pay rent and stay warrant.
When proceeding may be discharged.
When tenant may be restored.
Warrant stayed twenty-four hours after judgment, and appeal allowed.
On appeal and security, warrant stayed.
When tenant claims under another landlord.
Time and manner of removal.
Justice to keep entries in his docket.
Restitution upon conviction of forcible entry.

§ 1407. Entry upon real property can only be made, where entry is given by law, and then it must not be made forcibly; and an entry peaceably made, must not be forcibly maintained, against one who is entitled to the possession. A forcible entry or detention, within the meaning of this section, is one made with weapons, an unusual number of persons, or threats of violence, or attended with any other breach of the peace.

§ 1408. In case of a forcible entry or detention, the person dispossessed or excluded may, upon application made within one month thereafter, be placed in possession, if entitled thereto, as provided in this chapter.

§ 1409. If a tenant who is in arrear for rent, desert the property, leaving the same unoccupied, the landlord may be put in possession thereof as provided in this chapter.

§ 1410. A tenant of real property, for a term less than for life, may be removed from such property, as provided in this chapter, in the following cases: 1. Where he continues in possession of the property, or any part thereof, after the expiration of his term, without the permission of the landlord but in cases of a tenancy at will or sufferance, it must be first terminated by notice, in the manner prescribed by law; 2. Where the tenant continues in possession without such permission, after default in the payment of rent pursuant to the agreement under which the property is held, and three days notice in writing, requiring payment of the rent or possession of the property, shall have been served on the tenant, in the manner prescribed by section 1412, for the service of an order; 3. Where a person continues in possession of real property, which has been sold upon execution against him or against the person under whom he claims by a title subsequent to the lien on which it was sold after a title under such sale shall have been perfected, and possession thereunder has been demanded; 4. Where a person continues in possession of real property, which has been sold upon summary foreclosure of a mortgage, executed by him, or by the person under whom he claims by a title subsequent to the mortgage, after a title under such sale shall have been perfected, and possession thereunder has been demanded.

§ 1411. A complaint must be made, and verified, as in an action, stating plainly and concisely the facts necessary to establish the rights of the plaintifff, and thereupon either, 1. A copy of the complaint must be served upon-the defendant, with a notice from the plaintifff that unless the defendant previously surrender to the plaintifff possession of the premises, application will, at a specified time and place, be made to a justice of the town or a justices’ district where the property is situated, for a warrant of possession in favor of the plaintifff; or, 2. The complaint must be delivered to such justice, who shall make an order, requiring the defendant to surrender possession of the property to the plaintifff, or show cause before the justice, at a specified place and time, why a warrant of possession should not be issued in favor of the plaintifff.

§ 1412. The notice or order, with a copy of the complaint must be served by a sheriff or constable at least two days before the day of appearance, either, 1. By delivering it to the defendant personally; or 2. If he be absent from his place of residence, and from his usual place of business, by leaving it with some person of suitable age and discretion at either; or, 3. If such place of residence and business cannot be ascertained, or a person of suitable age and discretion there cannot be found, then by affixing it, in a conspicuous place, on the property, respecting which the proceeding is had, and also delivering a copy to a person there residing, if such person can be found. The officer must make a return certifying the time and manner of service.

§ 1413. If at the time appointed, the defendant do not appear and defend, the justice upon production of the complaint, and a certificate of service of a copy thereof and of the notice or order, must give judgment that the defendant be removed from the property, and the plaintifff be put into the possession thereof.

§ 1414. The defendant may at the time for appearance, make and deliver to the judge an answer to the complaint, verified as in an action, denying any of the material allegations, thereof; or alleging any defense he may have.

§ 1415. The questions arising on the complaint and answer must be tried by the justice, or, if either party demand it, a jury must be summoned to try the question of fact, if any. The jury must be formed as in justices’ courts, and the provisions of this code, respecting trials by jury in justices’ courts, apply to trials by jury under this chapter.

§ 1416. If the justice find, or the verdict of the jury be rendered, in favor of the plaintifff, the justice must give judgment, that the defendant be removed from the property, describing it, and the plaintifff put in the possession thereof, and also that the defendant pay the costs specified in the order.

§ 1417. For the execution of a judgment of removal a warrant must be signed by the justice and delivered to the sheriff of the county, or to the marshal or constable of the city or town in which the property is situated, commanding him to remove the defendant from the property, and put the plaintifff into possession thereof; and to collect the costs of the proceedings specified in the warrant. The officer to whom the warrant is directed and delivered, must execute the same as prescribed in section 1426, and must collect the costs in the same manner, as upon a judgment in a justice’s court.

§ 1418. Upon the request of either party, the justice may adjourn the trial, for the purpose of enabling such party to procure his witnesses, whenever it appears to be necessary, and due diligence has been already used; but such adjournment cannot, without the consent of both parties, exceed ten days in the whole.

§ 1419. When a warrant is issued for the removal of a tenant, the contract under which he holds, if any, is thenceforth terminated, and the relation of landlord and tenant between the parties, ceases, except as provided in section 1422.

§ 1420. The tenant can stay the issuing of the warrant, when the application grows out of the failure to pay rent, if; before the warrant be actually issued, he pay the rent due, with costs, or give to the landlord security, approved by the justice, for the payment thereof in ten days.

§ 1421. Proceedings must be stayed, when the application grows out of a sale by execution or foreclosure of a mortgage, if, at any time before the issuing of the warrant, the occupant: 1. Pay the costs of the proceedings: 2. File with the justice an affidavit, that he claims the possession of the property, by virtue of a title acquired after the sale, which defeats the plaintifff’s right of possession, or that he claims as guardian or trustee of another not made a defendant: and 3. Deliver to the plaintifff an undertaking, with sureties approved by the justice, to the effect, that he will commit no waste during his occupancy of the property, and that if an action be brought by the plaintifff, within three months, for the recovery of the possession thereof, he will pay the costs, and such damages as may be recovered therein for withholding the possession.

§ 1422. When the application is under the second subdivision of section 1410, if the unexpired term of the lease, under which the property is held, exceed one year at the time of issuing the warrant, and the notice or order was not personally served upon the tenant, he, or his successor in interest, or one having a lien upon the property, may, within sixty days after the execution of the warrant, pay or tender to the lessor or his successor in interest, or to the justice, the rent in arrear to that time, with interest and costs, and thereupon the premises must be restored to the tenant, or his successor in interest, who shall hold the same according to the terms of the original lease.

§ 1423. The warrant cannot issue until twenty-four hours after the judgment of removal, and daring that time the defendant may appeal from the judgment. The appeal must be made, in the same manner, and to the same court, as from a justice’s judgment, and the proceedings upon the appeal are the same.

§ 1424. If the appellant desire a stay of the proceedings, he must give security, by an undertaking executed by one or more sureties, approved by the justice or the county judge, to the effect, that if judgment be affirmed, the appellant will obey the judgment of removal, pay the value of the use of the property during the appeal, the costs specified in the warrant, and the costs of the appeal.

§ 1425. Upon, an affidavit that the defendant is the tenant of another under a subsisting lease, the landlord may defend the proceeding either with or without the tenant.

§ 1426. A warrant of removal can only be executed in the day time. The officer must execute it, by removing the defendant and any other person occupying by his permission, any part of the property, as his tenant or otherwise, and putting the plaintifff into possession. But when the premises are underlet, the under-tenant can not be removed, unless the summons has either been served upon him or posted in a conspicuous place on the property.

§ 1427. The justice must make an entry, in his docket, of the proceedings, and such entry is evidence thereof.

§ 1428. Upon the conviction of a defendant on an indictment, for forcible entry or forcible detention, in a court of sessions or a court of oyer and terminer, the court may award restitution, in the same manner as a justice upon a verdict pursuant to this chapter.

TITLE III. OF THE ENFORCEMENT OF LIENS.

Liens in general.
Liens on buildings.
Liens on vessels.
Liens on cargoes for warfage.
Liens on things doing damage upon real property.
General provisions.

CHAPTER I. LIENS IN GENERAL.

Definition of liens.
Different kinds of liens.

§ 1429. A lien is a right to have satisfaction of a claim out of a particular thing, or to retain possession of it until the claim is paid.

§ 1430. The liens, of which the enforcement is provided in this title, are of four kinds: 1. Liens on buildings: 2. Liens on vessels: 3. Liens on cargoes for warfage: 4. Liens on things doing damage upon real property.

CHAPTER II. LIENS ON BUILDINGS.

Liens on buildings.
Limit of aggregate of liens.
Lien to be described and registered with county clerk.
Registry, how made, and its effect.
Manner of discharging lien.
Summary proceeding to settle liens.
Judgment to be given thereon.
Actions to enforce liens.

§ 1431. A person who, under the authority of the owner, performs labor, or supplies materials, towards the erection, alteration, or repair of a building, in a city or incorporated village of this state, may create a lien on the building and on the interest of the owner in the lot of land upon which it stands, for the price or value of such labor or materials, as provided in this chapter.

§ 1432. The aggregate of such liens cannot exceed the amount, which the owner of the building would be otherwise liable to pay, for such erection, alteration or repair.

§ 1433. The lien must be registered with the clerk of the county where the building is situated, or in the city of New-York, with the register of that city and county, as follows: The claimant must deliver to the clerk a statement in writing, verified by affidavit, setting forth briefly the following particulars: 1. The situation of the building, designating it by the street on which it is situated, and the number of the lot, if the street be named, and the lot numbered, or otherwise by some certain or known designation: 2. The owner of the building, under whose authority the lien was created: 3. The particulars of the claim and the amount thereof, which amount, if the claim he made before the labor has been performed, or the material supplied, and the amount payable thereforee has become due, must be the amount payable by the terms of the contract with the claimant, or capable of being ascertained therefrom by computation, if afterwards, the amount actually due: and, 4. A copy of the contract with the claimant, if it be in writing, and if not in writing, a statement of its substance.

§ 1434. The clerk must thereupon register the lien in a book to be kept by him for that purpose, called the “book of liens.” The entries must be arranged alphabetically, under the name, of the owner, and of the street, separately. It must contain the name of the claimant and of the person against whom the claim exists, the amount of the lien, the time when filed, and a brief description of the property. A copy of the statement must be served on the owner, by delivering it to him personally, or by leaving it at his residence with a person of suitable age and discretion, or by depositing it in the post office, directed to him at his place of residence. From the time of filing the statement, and serving the copy, the claimant shall have a lien on the land and building, for the amount then actually due to him for work and materials, or which afterwards becomes due, pursuant to the contract referred to in the statement; but such statement must be made and filed, before the expiration of thirty days after the completion of the work or the supply of the materials.

§ 1435. The lien may be discharged, as follows: 1. By filing a certificate of the claimant or his successor in interest, acknowledged or proved in the same manner as the satisfaction of a mortgage, stating that the lien is discharged: or 2. By the deposit with the clerk, of a sum of money equal to the amount claimed, which money shall thereupon be held subject to the lien: or 3. By an entry of the clerk, made in the book of liens, after one year has elapsed since the filing of the claim, stating that no notice has been given to him of legal steps to enforce the lien: or 4. By a notice from the owner to the claimant, after the amount has become payable, requiring him to commence an action, for the enforcement of his lien, and the lapse of thirty days thereafter, without the commencement of such action: or 5. By satisfaction of the lien, upon an action for the enforcement thereof.

§ 1436. After the registry of a lien, and the performance of the work, or the supply of the materials, the claimant or the owner may either serve personally upon the other, a notice in writing, requiring him to appear before a justice of the peace of the county, at a specified time, not less than five days from the time of service, and submit to an accounting for the amount due for such labor or materials. At the time mentioned in the notice, or at such other time as the accounting may be adjourned to, the parties appearing must each deliver to the justice, an account in writing of his claim or offset, if any, verified by affidavit, and submit to examination thereupon, under the direction of the justice. If both parties appear, and there arise a question of fact, a jury may be demanded by either, and such question must be tried by a jury in the same manner, as an issue joined in an ordinary action in a justice’s court. In like manner, a contractor, that is a person who contracts with the owner for labor and materials, and who employs persons under him to do work, or furnish materials, may serve on such persons, and receive from them a similar notice with the like effect; and a payment made by the owner, to a person employed by a contractor must be allowed by such contractor, in his account with the owner, to the extent of any judgment which may be recovered by such person against such contractor, pursuant to this section.

§ 1437. Upon the accounting mentioned in the last section, whether a jury be called or not, witnesses may be produced by either party, and judgment must be rendered upon the amount found by the jury or the justice; which judgment has the same effect, is subject to appeal, and may be enforced in the same manner, as a judgment in an ordinary action in a justice’s court.

§ 1438. After the performance of the work, or the supply of the materials, and the expiration of any credit stipulated for the payment, the lien mentioned in this chapter may be enforced, by an action. In such action, all persons whose liens are registered, as provided in section 1433, may be made parties, and the court may, by the judgment, direct a sale of the land and building for the satisfaction of the liens and costs; such sale to be without prejudice to the rights of any prior encumbrancer, owner or other persons not parties to the action. If several such actions be brought by different claimants, and be pending at the same time, the court may order them to be consolidated into one.

CHAPTER III. LIENS ON VESSELS.

Liens on vessels allowed, cases specified.
Manner of enforcing liens.
All persons having an interest to be parties.
Summons, its contents and service.
Vessels may be attached.
Several actions may be consolidated.
Vessels under seizure by United States, exempt.

§ 1439. A debt, amounting to at least fifty dollars, contracted in this state by the owner, master, agent or consignee of a vessel, is a lien upon the vessel, her tackle, apparel and furniture, when contracted for either of the following purposes: 1. Work done, or materials furnished in this state. towards the building, repairing, equipping and furnishing thereof: 2. Provisions and stores furnished in this state, proper for the use of the vessel at the time they were furnished: 3. Wharfage and keeping the vessel in port, including the expense of employing persons to watch her. This lien has preference over every other lien, except for mariners’ wages. But it ceases in twelve days after the vessel leaves the port where the debt was contracted for another place in this state, and immediately upon her leaving this state: 4. Damage, occasioned to a vessel by collision with another, through the negligence or willful misconduct of its navigator, if it exceed fifty dollars, is also for thirty days after the collision, a lien upon the vessel doing the injury.

§ 1440. The lien mentioned in the last section, may Be enforced by an action; in which the court may order the sale of the vessel and the tackle, apparel and furniture thereof, or the tackle, apparel and furniture alone, and the application of the proceeds for the purpose of satisfying the liens thereon. Upon a judgment of sale, the sale must be made by the sheriff, and his bill of sale, made in pursuance thereof, vests in the purchaser a valid title to the property sold, as against all the parties to the action.

§ 1441. Every person having an interest in or lien upon the vessel whose name is known to the plaintifff, must be made by name, a party to the action, either as plaintifff or defendant, and all other persons having such interest or lien, are to be deemed parties defendants.

§ 1442. The summons must be directed by name to the known defendants, and generally to all other persons unknown having an interest in the vessel or a lien thereon, and must contain a brief description of the vessel, stating, if contained in the complaint, its name, the port to which it belongs, the name of its last commander, and briefly the object of the action. The summons must be served upon the defendants named therein as prescribed in section 628, and upon the unknown defendants as prescribed in sections 629 and 630.

§ 1443. In such action, the plaintifff, at the time of filing the complaint, may have the vessel attached as a security for the satisfaction of such liens as shall thereon be adjudged valid. The mode of proceeding to obtain such attachment, to execute and discharge it, is the same as upon the ordinary provisional remedy by attachment.

§ 1444. If several such actions be brought by different persons having liens upon the same vessel and be pending at the same time, the court may order them to be consolidated into one.

§ 1445. No proceeding under this chapter can be had against a vessel which shall have been seized by virtue of process from a court of the United States, having admiralty jurisdiction, while such vessel is actually held under such seizure, nor against a vessel which shall have been sold by order of such court, except for debts contracted after the sale. But nothing in ‘bi’ section impairs the validity of any lien created by this chapter, the payment of which shall be decreed by a court of the United States.

CHAPTER IV. LIENS ON CARGOES FOR WHARFAGE.

Lien for wharfage, when.
Notice to be given.
Appraisement to be made.
Sale how made.

§ 1446. When a vessel has lain twenty-four hours at a wharf in this state, for which wharfage is due, and the same has been demanded of the master or owner, by notice left on board with one of the company of the vessel, and neither payment is made nor security given thereforee, the owner of the wharf may distrain any chattels on board the vessel for the amount; and so, from time to time as often as twenty-four hour’s wharfage becomes due. The distress must be made by a constable or marshal.

§ 1447. The officer making the distress, must immediately give notice thereof, with the cause of the distress, the amount of wharfage due, and an inventory of the property taken, by leaving it on board with one of the company of the vessel.

§ 1448. If, at the expiration of five days after the notice, the wharfage due, with the costs of the distress, be not paid, and the property distrained, be not legally reclaimed, the officer must summon two disinterested householders, who shall be sworn by him, fairly to appraise the property distrained. They must thereupon make and certify the appraisement.

§ 1449. The officer must, thereupon, give six days public notice of the sale of the property distrained, by affixing it on a conspicuous part of the wharf for which the wharfage was due, and also in two public places in the town or ward. On the day and at the place appointed, he must sell the property by public auction, and apply the proceeds to the satisfaction of the wharfage due, and costs, and pay the surplus, if any, to the owner of the property.

CHAPTER V. LIEN ON THINGS DOING DAMAGE UPON REAL PROPERTY.

Lien on things doing damage may be enforced by distress.
Distress defined.
Fence viewers to receive notice in twenty-four hours.
Fence viewers to appraise damages.
Beasts distrained to be impounded.
Disposition of beasts when impounded.
Damage and fees to be paid when released.
Other property, and if there be no pound, beasts, when distrained, to be kept by the distrainer.
Notice and sale of property distrained.
When notice to be in a newspaper.
Notice to be served on the owner if known.
If damage be not paid, sale by an officer.
Manner of sale as on execution, and disposition of proceeds.
Security may be required before surplus ordered paid to the claimant.

§ 1450. A person having an interest in real property or entitled to its use or produce, who may find beasts or inanimate things, unlawfully thereon doing damage, unless they are at the time in the immediate use or manual possession of another, has a lien upon them for such damage, which he may enforce by distress.

§ 1451. A distress is the taking of personal property into the custody of a party by his own act, without legal process, for the enforcement of a lien.

§ 1452. When a distress is made, the distrainer must keep the property safely, until the appraisement of his damage, and, within twenty-four hours after the distress, unless it was made on a Saturday, and then before the Tuesday morning thereafter, he must apply to two fence viewers of the town to make the appraisement.

§ 1453. The fence viewers must immediately repair to the place, view the damage, and thereupon ascertain and certify the amount thereof, with their fees. They must also determine any dispute which may arise, respecting the sufficiency of a fence around the property, where the damage was done, and may take the testimony of witnesses, and for that purpose may administer oaths.

§ 1454. When the distress is of beasts, and the damage and fees are not paid, the distrainer, within twenty-four hours after the appraisement must cause the beasts distrained to be put into the nearest pound in the city or town, if there be one, there to remain till the payment of the damages and fees, or the sale of the boasts as prescribed in section 1462, or until the beats are legally reclaimed. He must also deliver the certificate of the fence viewers to the pound master.

§ 1455. The pound master must receive and keep in the pound, the beasts so delivered, and unless the same be reclaimed or discharged according to law within six days, sell them, or so many of them as may be necessary, by auction, giving forty-eight hours notice thereof, by advertisement posted at the pound and at the nearest public place. While the beasts remain in the pound their owner may feed them without disturbance. From the proceeds of the sale the pound master, after deducting the amount of his fees and charges of keeping the beasts, and the charges of sale, must pay to the distrainer the damages so certified, with the fees of the fence viewers, and the surplus, if any, to the owner of the beasts. If no owner appear to claim the surplus, within a year after the sale, it must be paid to the overseers of the poor of the city or town for the use of the poor.

§ 1456. A pound master, with whom beasts are impounded, must discharge them, on being paid: 1. The amount of damage certified by the fence viewers: 2. The fees of the fence viewers: 3. The, fees of the pound master, with his reasonable charge for feeding the beasts, if fed by him, not exceeding six cents for each beast every twenty-four hours, and 4. In the city of New-York fifty cents a day each, for every day they remain in the pound.

§ 1457. When distress is made of inanimate things doing damage, or, when distress is made of beasts and there is no pound in the city or town, the distrainer must keep the things or beasts in a safe and convenient place, until the damage is appraised, and they are sold or otherwise disposed of.

§ 1458. In the cases provided for in the last section, the distrainer must affix a notice in three public places of the town six days before the sale, as follows: 1. Specifying the property distrained, and the amount of damage certified: 2. Requiring the owner of the property to redeem, and remove it, before the day appointed for the sale: 3. Stating that the property will be sold at a specified time and place, to pay the damage and the charges of the proceedings.

§ 1459. If the value of the property distrained, as certified by the appraisers, exceed fifty dollars, the distrainer must also publish a similar notice, in the nearest newspaper, once a week for four weeks, but in such case, the time of sale must be at least thirty days from the first publication of the notice.

§ 1460. If the owner of the property be known to the distrainer, or if any person be known to him as claiming an interest therein, and such owner or person be found or reside within the county, the distrainer must also serve a copy of the notice, at least six days before the sale, either personally on such owner or person, or in case of his absence from his last place of residence, by leaving the same at such residence with a person of suitable age and discretion ; or if the owner or claimant reside out of the county and his residence be known, and he be not served personally, by sending a copy of the notice by mail, properly enveloped, to his address.

§ 1461. If the property be not removed, and the damage so certified, with the fees of the appraisers and the expense of the notice, be not paid at the time appointed for the sale, the distrainer must apply to the sheriff of the county or a constable of the town, to sell the property, and for that purpose must deliver to the officer the original certificate of the appraisers, and an affidavit, showing his compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

§ 1462. The officer must thereupon sell the property in the same manner as on execution against personal property in civil actions, and out of the proceeds of the sale, after deducting his own fees, pay to the distrainer the amount of the damage certified, the expense of the notice and also all other expense, that may have been reasonably incurred in the safe keeping and preservation of the property, to be ascertained and certified by the county judge, or by a justice of the peace of the county, and the balance, if any, pay to the owner of the property; or if he be unknown, to the county treasurer for the owner, to be paid to him upon the order of the county court upon making application and proof of property.

§ 1463. If upon such application, the court entertain a doubt of the ownership of the property, it may, before ordering the payment require the claimant to execute an undertaking, with sureties to be approved by the court, to the effect, that he will pay the amount established, to any person, who, in an action on such undertaking, commenced within two years from its date, shall establish his right to such balance, or any part thereof; and any person claiming such balance, or any part thereof; may prosecute the undertaking.

CHAPTER VI. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Notice of sale and appraisement, when no special provision made.
Papers to be filed thereupon.
Proceeds, how paid.

§ 1464. When an officer is authorized by statute to distrain property for any purpose whatever, and no special provision is otherwise made, he must give at least six days’ notice of the sale of the property, by posting the same in three public places of the town where the sale is to be made; and he must, also, before making the sale, require three disinterested freeholders of the town to appraise the property distrained, and they must thereupon make the appraisal on oath, and certify it, with an inventory of the property.

§ 1465. Within ten days after the sale, the officer making it must file with the clerk of the town or city where it was made: 1. His own affidavit, specifying the cause of the distress and the amount of the penalty, tax, duty, or other sum for which it was made: 2. Proof of affidavit of the requisite notice: 3. The inventory and certificate of the appraisers. Which papers thus filed are primary evidence of the facts therein stated. The officer failing to comply with this section, within the time therein required, forfeits twenty-live dollars to the owner of the property sold, besides the damage sustained by him in consequence of the failure.

§ 1466. Out of the proceeds of the sale, the officer may retain the reasonable expense of the appraisal, certificate, notice, affidavits and filing, to be certified by a judge or justice, and the balance, after satisfying the penalty, tax, duty, or other sum for which the same was made must be disposed of as provided in section 1462.

TITLE IV. OF THE PUNISHMENT OF CONTEMPTS.

Contempts defined.
What courts and judicial officers may punish.
Contempts in presence of court, how punished.
In other cases, how to proceed.
If party imprisoned, he may be brought up.
Whether to be bailed or not, when directed.
Warrant of, and how executed.
Bail how given. 
Warrant to be returned.
If he fail, warrant to issue against him.
On appearance of party, how to proceed.
Party found guilty, fined or imprisoned.
Indemnity to party injured, also required.
Imprisonment in certain cases.
Party not indictable.
If party fail to appear, another warrant to issue.
Illness an excuse for not producing party.

§ 1467. The following acts, or omissions, in respect to a court of justice, or proceedings therein, are deemed to be contempts of the authority of the court: 1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the judge while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or other judicial proceeding. 2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding: 3. Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect or violation of duty, by an attorney, counsel, clerk, sheriff, coroner or other person appointed or selected to perform a judicial or ministerial service: 5. Deceit, or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court, by a party to an action or special proceeding: 6. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order or process of the court: 7. Assuming to be an officer, attorney, counsel of a court, and acting as such without authority: 8. Rescuing any person or property, in the custody of an officer by virtue of an order or process of such court: 9. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action, while going to, remaining at, or returning from the court, where the action is on the calendar for trial: 10. Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceedings of a court: 11. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness: 12. When summoned as a juror in a court, improperly conversing with a party to an action to be tried at such court, or with any other person in relation to the merits of such action, or receiving a communication from a party or other person in respect to it, without immediately disclosing the same to the court: 13. Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate or officer, of the lawful judgment, order or process of a superior court, or proceeding in an action or special proceeding, contrary to law, after such action or special proceeding shall have been removed from the jurisdiction of such inferior tribunal, magistrate or officer: Disobedience of the lawful order or process of a judicial officer, made in the cases specified in section 228, is also deemed to be a contempt of the authority of such officer.

§ 1468. Every court of justice, except a court of conciliation, and every judicial officer, has power to punish contempts by fine or imprisonment, or both. But when the contempt, is not one of those mentioned in the first or second subdivisions of the last section, or in the first subdivision of section 228, it must appear that the right or remedy of a party to an action, or special proceeding, was defeated or prejudiced thereby, before the contempt can be punished by imprisonment, or by a fine exceeding fifty dollars. Contempts of justices’ courts are punishable in the manner provided by sections 1150, 1151, 1152, 1153, and 1154.

§ 1469. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and presence of the court or officer, it may be punished summarily, for which an order must be made reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view, and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against, is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein described. Such punishment, however, cannot exceed that prescribed by section 1478. Where the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, an affidavit must be presented to the court, or officer, of the facts constituting the contempt.

§ 1470. In cases, other than those mentioned in the last section, the court or officer may either issue a warrant of arrest, to bring the person charged to answer, or without a previous arrest, may, upon notice or upon an order to show cause, grant a warrant of commitment. But no warrant of commitment can be issued without such previous arrest to answer, or upon such notice or order to show cause.

§ 1471. If the party charged be in the custody of an officer, by virtue of a legal order or process, civil or criminal, except upon a sentence for felony, an order may be made for the production of such person by the officer having him in custody, that he may answer, and he shall thereupon be produced and held until an order be made for his disposal.

§ 1472. Whenever a warrant of arrest is issued, pursuant to this chapter, the court or officer must direct, whether the person charged may be let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant, or detained in custody without bail, and if he may be hailed, the amount in which he may be let to bail. The directions given in this respect, must be specified in the warrant.

§ 1473. Upon executing the warrant of arrest, the sheriff must keep the person in actual custody, bring him before the court or officer, and detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.

§ 1474. When the warrant contains the direction to let the person arrested to bail, he must be discharged from the arrest, upon executing and delivering to the officer, at any time before the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person arrested will appear on the return of the warrant, and abide the order of the court or officer thereupon, or pay, as may be directed, the sum specified in the warrant.

§ 1475. The officer must return the warrant of arrest, and the undertaking, if any, received by him from the person arrested, by the return day specified therein. If he fail to make the return, a, warrant of arrest not bailable may be issued against him, specifying therein the cause of issuing it.

§ 1476. The officer to whom the warrant mentioned in the last section is delivered, must execute it, by arresting the person proceeded against, bringing him personally before the court or officer, and detaining him in custody until otherwise ordered.

§ 1477. When the person arrested has been brought up, or appeared, the court or officer must proceed to investigate the charge by examining him and witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time to time if necessary.

§ 1478. Upon the evidence so taken, the court or officer must determine, whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a fine must be imposed upon him, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, or he must be imprisoned not exceeding six months, or both. But in the discretion of the court, or officer, (in case of inability to pay the fine, or endure the imprisonment,) he may be relieved in such manner and upon such terms as may be just.

§ 1479. If an actual loss or injury, to a party in an action or special proceeding prejudicial to his rights therein, have been caused by the contempt, the court or officer, in addition to the line or imprisonment imposed for the contempt, may order the person proceeded against to pay to the party aggrieved a sum of money sufficient to indemnify him, and to satisfy his costs and expenses, which order, and the acceptance of money under it, is a bar to an action by the aggrieved party for such loss or injury.

§ 1480. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be imprisoned, until he shall have performed it, and in that case the act must be specified in the warrant of commitment.

§ 1481. Persons proceeded against, according to the provisions of this chapter, are also liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense, but the court before which a conviction is had on the indictment, in passing sentence, must take into consideration the punishment before inflicted.

§ 1482. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served, if the person arrested do not appear on the return day, the court or officer may issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of damages in the action, is the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which the warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceedings.

§ 1483. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an officer is required to keep a person arrested in actual custody, and to bring him before a court or officer, the inability, from illness or otherwise, of the person to attend is a sufficient excuse for not bringing him up. Nor can the officer be required to confine a person arrested upon the warrant in a prison, or otherwise to restrain him of personal liberty, except so far as may be necessary to secure his personal attendance.

TITLE V. ASSESSMENTS.

Assessments for local improvements.
Opening of private roads.

CHAPTER I. ASSESSMENTS FOR LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS.

Assessments to be made by three commissioners.
How appointed.
Notice to be given.
Commissioners and their proceedings under control of court.
Any person interested may make himself party.
Court may affirm, modify, or reject report.
Objections how presented.
Trial by jury.
Sale or lease to be reported to court.
Expenses of proceeding.

§ 1484. Assessments, whether for benefit or damage, authorized by any statute of this state, must, in the first instance, be made by three commissioners appointed by the county court of the county, in the following cases. 1. When specific property, real or personal, is taken from the owner and appropriated to public purposes: 2. When the owner of property is required to use, or dispose of, it in a particular manner, for the public benefit; and 3. When a contribution of money is required, towards the expense of local improvement.

§ 1485. The appointment of commissioners must be made upon a previous notice from the party, in whose name the application is made; and none but freeholders of the county can be appointed.

§ 1486. The notice must be given by advertisement, published in a newspaper of the county, not less than once a week for three weeks.

§ 1487. From the time of their appointment, the commissioners, and all their proceedings, shall be under the control of the court, which may, in its discretion, direct the time and place of meeting of the commissioners, and the time of making their report. The court also has control over all the proceedings subsequent to the report of the commissioners including the sale for the assessment, if a sale be made.

§ 1488. Any person, interested in the assessment, may make himself a party to the proceedings, by giving to the commissioners written notice of his wish to be made a party, stating his name and address; and thereafter is entitled to at least six days notice of the meeting of the commissioners, of the time of presenting their report, and of the sale, if any. The notice must be served by delivering it to him personally, or sending the same through the post office to his address; except that when a party comes in after notice already given to the existing parties, a new notice to him is not necessary. But the failure to give the notice required by this section, does not affect the jurisdiction of the court.

§ 1489. The report of the commissioners may refer to a map annexed, accurately tracing the boundaries of property taken or assessed, and need not otherwise describe such property in detail. On receiving the report, the court may confirm or modify it, or may reject it, and order a new report to be made by the same or other commissioners.

§ 1490. Any person interested, may present in writing objections to the report, the facts stated in such objections being verified by oath. The court must decide upon the objections, but if it appear to the court, that there is a fact in dispute between the parties, whether such fact be the amount of damages or otherwise, and a trial thereof by jury be demanded by either party, such trial must be ordered.

§ 1491. When there is a trial by jury, the court may exercise the same control over the jury and the verdict, that is exercised in civil actions, and may thereupon make a final order in the case.

§ 1492. Any sale or lease made for the purpose of satisfying the assessments, mentioned in the third subdivision of section 1484, must be made within three years after the confirmation of the report of the commissioners. Such sale must be reported to the court, which may confirm it, or for good cause order a resale, but no sale can in any case be made, or lease granted, for a longer period than twelve years.

§ 1493. The commissioners are entitled for their services, to the same fees as referees, but such fees, in the aggregate, can never exceed one hundred dollars to each commissioner. Necessary surveyor‘s fees, not exceeding two hundred dollars, and clerk’s fees, for copies of papers, at the rate of live cents for every hundred words, may also be included in the assessment. No other fees, costs or expenses of any kind, for any local improvement, or upon any assessment, or for proceedings in relation thereto, can be made a charge upon the property.

CHAPTER II. OPENING OF PRIVATE ROADS.

Application to county court for private road.
How made.
Order to show cause.
Jury to be ordered.
How summoned and drawn.
Jury, how to proceed.
Upon finding of jury, court may make order.
Damages and expenses to be paid.
Special statutes continued in force.

§ 1494. Any person desiring a private road to be opened over the land of another, may make application thereforee to the county court of the county.

§ 1495. Such application must state briefly the circumstances which make the road desirable to the applicant, and must be verified by him. It must state the names and places of residence of the owners and occupants of the land upon which the road is proposed, and must be accompanied by a map or plan of the road proposed, and of the adjacent lands.

§ 1496. Upon receiving the application, the court must make an order that the persons interested show cause, if they have any, at a specified time and place why the road should not be opened, and in such order must direct the manner of serving the notice, as may appear most likely to reach the persons interested, such service to be not less than ten days before the time specified.

§ 1497. Upon proof of service of the order, if no sufficient cause to the contrary be shown, the court may make an order, directing the sheriff to summon a jury of freeholders, to appear at a specified time and place, to determine the necessity of the road, and the amount of all damages to be sustained by the opening thereof.

§ 1498. The sheriff must execute the order by drawing from the undrawn jury box of a justice in the town, where the property lies, and summoning eighteen jurors, not interested in the question, and indifferent between the parties to appear at the time and place specified in the order; and upon the appearance of the jurors, twelve of them must be drawn, and sworn to make a true inquisition in the premises.

§ 1499. The jury must thereupon go upon the land proposed to be laid out for a road, and the adjacent land, and after examining the application, maps, and plans, and hearing such evidence as may be offered, must make their inquisition and return the same to the court.

§ 1500. If the jury determine, that the road is necessary, it must determine the proper width and location thereof, and the amount of all damage to be sustained by the opening and continued use thereof. The court may thereupon make an order, describing the road, and declaring it a private road for the applicant, and his assigns, and for travel to and from the property, in respect to which it was applied for. A copy of the order must be filed with the records of roads, in the city or town, where the property is situated.

§ 1501. The court must fix the expense of the proceeding, at such sum as may seem to it reasonable, not exceeding in the whole one hundred dollars, and must direct the payment by the applicant of the same, together with the damages found by the jury, before proceeding to open the road.

§ 1502. The provisions of the statutes, regulating the proceedings of commissioners, or other persons, appointed to estimate or assess the expense of local improvements, in the several cities and villages of this state, or relating to such assessments, or to the sale or lease of real property, for the failure to pay assessments, so far as the same are consistent with the provisions of this chapter, remain in force; the term “commissioners,” being taken to include all persons appointed to estimate or assess such damages.

TITLE VI. OF THE VOLUNTARY DISSOLUTION OF CORPORATIONS.

What corporations embraced in title.
How dissolved.
Application, what to contain.
Notice to show cause ordered, and injunction.
Copy order how served.
Application how served.
Order of dissolution, when made.
Transfers in violation of injunction, void.
Receivers, how to proceed.
Payment of debts.
Distribution afterwards.
Notice of distribution.
Creditors coming in afterwards, to receive dividend.
Receiver’s report.
Notice thereof to be published.
Confirmation of account, and discharge of receiver.
Objection, what to contain.
Account examined.
Parties intended to be heard.
Accounts to be closed within sixteen months.

§ 1503. This title embraces the corporations intended by section 974, and embraced in the chapter on actions respecting corporations.

§ 1504. A corporation may be dissolved by the supreme court, or the county court, of the county where its office, or principal place of business, is situated, upon the voluntary application for that purpose of a majority of its trustees, directors, or other officers having the management of its affairs.

§ 1505. The application must be in writing, and must set forth, either the insolvency of the corporation, or other sufficient reason for terminating its corporate existence, and must contain the following particulars: 1. An inventory of all the property, and of the books, vouchers and securities of such corporation, as far as the same are known to the applicant, or can be ascertained by him; 2. A statement of the capital stock, the number of shares, and their nominal value, the names of the stockholders, the number of shares belonging to each, the amount paid in, and the amount remaining unpaid; 3. An inventory of the debts and liabilities of the corporation, including contracts not completed or satisfied, specifying the names and residence of the creditors respectively, as far as known, the nature of each debt, and the cause and consideration of each: and, 4. A statement of all the liens, or encumbrances outstanding, unsatisfied, on property of the corporation, and the amount actually due, or to become due thereon.

§ 1506. The application must be verified by affidavit, in the same manner as a complaint in an action, and may be presented to a judge of the court either in or out of court.

§ 1506. If the judge be satisfied that the application and schedule are in conformity with this chapter, and if there appear sufficient ground for the application, but not otherwise, he must order notice to be given to all the stockholders, creditors and others interested, to show cause, if they have any, at a specified time and place, why the corporation should not be dissolved. He may also, if the nature of the case require it, restrain, by injunction, the sale or transfer of any property, or the transaction of any business, by or on behalf of such corporation, until the further order of the court, and may, also, then or afterwards, appoint a receiver, if in his opinion, it be necessary.

§ 1507. A copy of the order must be served personally on all the members of the corporation residing and to be found, in the same county, at least ten days before the time appointed, in the same manner as a summons in an action. It must be served on all other persons interested, either personally or by publication thereof, for three weeks successively, next before the time of appearance, in a newspaper printed in the county. The judge may also require its publication in one or more other newspapers, if he deem it necessary, in order to give notice to the persons interested.

§ 1508. At the time and place specified, or at another time and place to which the hearing may be then adjourned, the court must hear the allegations and evidence of the applicant, and of any other party interested. The original application and schedules may be used on the hearing, adjournments may be had, and testimony taken, from time to time, in the discretion of the court, and if it become necessary to take an account, a reference for that purpose may be ordered.

§ 1509. If the court be satisfied that the corporation is insolvent, or that for any other reason, the dissolution thereof will be beneficial to the stockholders, and not injurious to the public, an order of dissolution may be made, and a receiver appointed. Such corporation shall thereby cease to exist, and its property shall be applied in satisfaction of its debts, and in discharge of its liabilities, and the residue distributed among the stockholders, according to their respective interests therein. No action or special proceeding shall abate by such dissolution, but the receiver may, on motion, be substituted therein, for the corporation.

§ 1510. All conveyances, sales, transfers, and mortgages of real or personal property of such corporation, in payment of, or security for, an antecedent debt, or otherwise, in violation of the injunction are void against the receiver and the creditors.

§ 1511. The receiver must, by public notice, appoint a general meeting of all the creditors, and others interested in the corporation, at a time within three months after his appointment, when all accounts and demands for and against the corporation, and all open and subsisting contracts, must be liquidated and classified as far as practicable. A statement showing the condition of the funds, and of the affairs generally in the hands of the receiver, must be then prepared and exhibited by the receiver. All books and papers in the hands of the receiver, are also at all times subject to the examination of the creditors and stockholders.

§ 1512. After such meeting, and within four months from the time of his appointment, the receiver must pay all outstanding just claims against the corporation, to the extent of the funds in his hands, (except such as he is by law authorized to reserve,) or if the funds are insufficient, must make payment and distribution in equal proportions, according to their priority.

§ 1513. If any money remain in the hands of the receiver, or be received by him, after the first dividend, he must within a year thereafter, and as much sooner as the condition of the assets will permit, after giving due notice thereof, make a second, and, if possible, final payment to the creditors, and distribution of the residue to stockholders, or others entitled, of the remaining assets in his hands. If after the second distribution, there still remain any part of the estate not collected or distributed, a third distribution must be made in like manner, and so on, as often as may be necessary; but no distribution among the stockholders can be made within one year after the appointment of the receiver, nor until after all the known debts are paid and liabilities discharged, or a sufficient fund set apart for that purpose.

§ 1514. Notice of every distribution must be published at least once a week, for three weeks next before the time appointed thereforee, in a newspaper printed in the county, where the principal place of business of the corporation was situated, and also in the state paper.

§ 1515. Any person having a just claim, who has not been included in the list of creditors, or of persons entitled to distribution, or has not had his just share of the assets at any former distribution, may appear and establish his claim, before the final dividend, and shall thereupon be entitled to his full share out of the remaining assets, if sufficient remain to make his payment or distributive share, equal, in proportion to its amount, to that of other claims of the same class at all former dividends, and may thereafter receive with others his just proportion.

§ 1516. Immediately after all the funds in the hands of the receiver have been paid out and applied, he must make a report to the court, containing a full and accurate account of his proceedings; which report must be filed with the clerk of the court in the county where the principal place of business of the corporation was situated.

§ 1517. Previous notice, of the time and place of filing the account, must be published once a week for three weeks, in a newspaper printed in the county, and also in the state paper, and a copy of such notice must also be served on every party, who has previously, in writing, requested notice of the final account. Such notice must also state, that the account will remain on file for the examination of all persons interested, for two weeks from the time of tiling the same, and if no objection be made to it by the service of notice, in writing, on the receiver, within that time, that an order closing the account and discharging the receiver, will be entered.

§ 1518. Upon satisfactory proof, produced to the court, showing that such account has been filed after due notice thereof; in the manner for the time prescribed in the last section, and that no objection has been made thereto, by notice served on the receiver, an order may be made that the account of the receiver be confirmed, and he be thereupon discharged.

§ 1519. An objection taken to such account, must state generally in what respect it is erroneous or defective, and the parties objecting are thereupon entitled to five days’ notice of the time and place of presenting the account, with the objection, to the court for decision.

§ 1520. The judge must proceed to examine the account and the objection, pursuant to the notice, on the day specified, or on some other day to which the examination may be adjourned, and may, when it involves the taking of oral testimony, or the examination of numerous vouchers, refer the same to a referee, to hear the parties and their evidence, and if necessary, restate the account. Upon filing the report of a referee, on a receiver’s account, an opportunity must be given to the parties interested to be heard.

§ 1521. The court must make an order, allowing, disallowing or modifying such account, according to the report of the referee or otherwise, as may be just, and must direct the proper payment and distribution of the balance, if any be found in the receiver’s hands Such order is final as to all parties receiving notice, pursuant to the provisions of this title.

§ 1522. Every receiver, appointed pursuant to this title, must close the affairs of the corporation, and render his final account to the court, by filing the same within sixteen months from the time of his appointment, or within such further time as the court, an application and cause shown, may allow.

TITLE VII. OF PROCEEDINGS IN THE COURTS OF CONCILIATION.

Courts of conciliation, where and by whom held.
When and where held.
Notice to appear.
How notice served.
Of what causes of action, court has cognizance.
No appearance, how to proceed.
Voluntary appearance of parties.
If reconciliation be had, memorandum thereof.
If judgment agreed upon, memorandum thereof.
Submission to judge.
Entry by judge in books of records.
Entries, evidence.
Party not appearing, cannot recover costs in action.
In case of urgency, action commenced, and appearance afterwards.
Infant or woman appearing may be accompanied by friend.
No costs in actions between partners, without offer to arbitrate.
Arbitrators, how chosen.
Duty of judge to give advice.
No party barred by admission before judge.
No fees allowed.

§ 1523. A court of conciliation is held in each of the counties of this state. In the city and county of New-York, it is held by the city judge of the city of New-York; in every other county, it is held by the county judge.

§ 1524. The court may be held on any judicial day, wherever in his county, the judge may happen to be.

§ 1525. Any person, claiming to have a cause of action against another, in any of the cases mentioned in section 1527, may serve on him a written notice, mentioning the alleged cause of action, and requiring him to appear in relation thereto, before the court of conciliation of the county, where the notice is served, at a specified time, not less than five days from the time of service.

§ 1526. Such notice must be served in the manner prescribed for a summons, in a civil action.

§ 1527. The cause of action, of which this court has cognizance, are libel, slander, malicious prosecution, breach of promise of marriage, assault, battery, false imprisonment, and personal violence of any kind.

§ 1528. At the time specified in the notice, or at such other time as the hearing may be adjourned to by the court, the parties appearing must be received by the judge, apart from all other persons, except as is provided in section 1537, and thereupon, it is the duty of the judge to hear the allegations and explanations of the parties, to inform them of their respective rights, and to endeavor to reconcile their differences.

§ 1529. Parties may voluntarily appear before the court, without notice, and such appearance is as effectual as if notice had been previously served.

§ 1530. If a reconciliation be had, a memorandum thereof, stating the nature of the controversy, or alleged cause of action, the appearance of the parties, and the fact of the reconciliation, without specifying the terms thereof, unless it be agreed by the parties to specify them, must be entered in a book of records, to be kept by the judge, and such entry must be signed by the respective parties. The reconciliation thus effected, shall be the final determination of the matter in controversy.

§ 1531. If the parties agree to a judgment, in favor of one against the other, in settlement of their differences, the judge may make, at the foot of the entry of reconciliation, a memorandum stating the judgment agreed upon. A transcript of such memorandum, certified by the judge, may be filed in the office of the county clerk, and shall thereupon have the same effect, and may be enforced in the same manner, as the judgment of a county court.

§ 1532. If, instead of a reconciliation, the terms of which are settled between the parties, they voluntarily submit their matters in difference to the court, and agree to abide the judgment, or assent thereto, in the presence of the court, such submission and agreement, or assent, must be entered in the book of records, and signed by the respective parties; and thereupon the judgment of the court, made pursuant to the submission, shall have the same effect, and may be enforced in the same manner, as the judgment mentioned in section 1531.

§ 1533. If, after the service of the notice prescribed in section 1525, either party fail to appear, or if the parties appearing be not reconciled as mentioned in sections 1530 and 1531, or do not enter into the submission and agreement mentioned in section 1532, it is the duty of the judge to make an entry in his book of records, stating in a summary manner the nature of the charge, the notice given, the proof of service thereof, the failure to appear of either party, or the appearance of the parties and their failure to be reconciled.

§ 1534. The entries in such book of records, or certified copies thereof signed by the judge, are evidence of the facts therein stated; and it is the duty of the judge to give a transcript of the entries in any case, certified by him, from his records, to either party on request.

§ 1535. In any action hereafter brought for the recovery of damages, for a cause of action mentioned in section 1527, the plaintifff cannot recover costs, unless he produce at the trial the certified copy mentioned in the last section, and unless it thereby appear that the notice was duly served, and that he appeared pursuant thereto, or that both the parties appeared without notice, as mentioned in section 1529. The defendant cannot recover costs in such action, when it appears that after service of the notice, he failed to appear pursuant thereto.

§ 1536. If, however, the case be one requiring a provisional remedy, and of such urgency as not to justify the delay arising from a previous notice to appear before the court of conciliation, the action may be commenced without such appearance or notice, and if the plaintifff afterwards give the notice, and appear before the court of conciliation pursuant thereto, he may recover costs accruing subsequent to such appearance.

§ 1537. When an infant, or a woman is a party to a proceeding before the court of conciliation, such infant or woman may be attended by the guardian, or husband, of such party, or if there be none, then by some friend approved by the court.

§ 1538. In an action between partners, or between principal and agent, if either party make it appear to the court, that previous to his complaint or answer, he made an offer in writing to his adversary, to submit the matter in difference between them to arbitration, as in the next section prescribed, no costs can be awarded against the party making such offer.

§ 1539. The arbitrators, required by the last section, must be three competent and disinterested persons, one to be chosen by each party, and the third to be either chosen by those two, or by the judge of the court of conciliation of the county.

§ 1540. It is the duty of the judge of the court of conciliation, so far as may be compatible with his duties as judge, to give to every person, who may ask it, advice respecting his differences with another.

§ 1541. No party to any admission or declaration, made before the court of conciliation, is bound thereby or responsible thereforee, in any other judicial proceeding whatever, except as provided in this title.

§ 1542. No fee can be received by the judge, for any services rendered in the court of conciliation.

TITLE VIII. OF ARBITRATIONS.

What may be submitted to arbitration, and by whom.
Submission to be in writing, and to one or more.
May be entered as an order of county court.
Arbitrators to fix time and place of hearing.
All must act, majority may decide, to be sworn.
Award must be in writing.
Court may vacate award in the cases specified.
Court may give costs to extent to fees only.
Decision of court subject to appeal.
Damages upon revocation of submission.
This title not to prevent actions  on other awards.

§ 1543. Persons, capable of contracting, may submit to arbitration any controversy, which might be the subject of a civil action between them, except a question of title to real property, in fee or for life, or for an existing term of more than twelve years. This qualification does not include questions relating merely to the partition, or boundaries of real property, or to the admeasurement of dower.

§ 1544. The submission to arbitration must be in writing, and may be to one or more persons.

§ 1545. It may be stipulated in the submission that it be entered as an order of the county court, for which purpose it must be filed with the clerk of the county, where the parties or one of them reside. The clerk must thereupon enter in his register of actions, a note of the submission, with the names of the parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date of the submission, when filed, and the time limited by the submission, if any, within which the award must be made. When so entered, the submission cannot be revoked without the consent of both parties, the arbitrators may be compelled by the court to make an award, and the award may be enforced by the court, in the same manner as a judgment. If the submission be not made an order of the court, it may be revoked at any time before the award is made, or if unrevoked, the award can be enforced by action only.

§ 1546. Arbitrators have power to appoint a time and place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to administer oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations, and evidence of the parties, and to make an award thereon.

§ 1547. All the arbitrators must meet and act together during the investigation, but when met a majority may determine any question. Before acting, they must be sworn, before an officer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of the parties, in relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a just award, according to their understanding.

§ 1548. The award must be in writing, signed by the arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When the submission is made an order of court, the award must be filed with the clerk, and a note thereof made in his register, after the expiration of ten days from the entry upon the application of a party, and on filing an affidavit, showing that a copy of the award and notice of filing the same, has been served at least eight days prior to the application, and that no order staying the entry of judgment has been served, the award may be entered in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the effect of a judgment.

§ 1549. The county court, on motion, may vacate the award, upon either of the following grounds, and may order a new hearing before the same arbitrators, or not in its discretion: 1. That it was procured by corruption or fraud: 2. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or committed gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hearing, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise acted improperly in a manner by which the rights of the party were prejudiced: 3. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making their award, or that they refused, or improperly omitted to consider a part of the matters submitted to them, or that the award is indefinite, or cannot be performed. The court may, on motion, modify or correct the award, where it appears: 1. That there was a miscalculation in figures, upon which it was made, or that there is a mistake in the description of some person or property therein: 2. When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted, which part can be separated from other parts, and does not affect the decision on the matters submitted: 3. When the award is imperfect in form, and if it had been a verdict could have been amended, or those imperfections disregarded.

§ 1550. Upon such motion, the costs thereof; may, in the discretion of the court, he added to the award, but no other costs or charges.

§ 1551. The decision upon the motion, is subject to appeal in the same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a civil action; but the judgment, entered before a motion is made, is not subject to appeal.

§ 1552. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and an action be brought thereforee, as provided in section 1545, the amount to be recovered can only be the costs, expenses and damages sustained, in preparing for and attending the arbitration, nor can the recovery be increased by any penalty or sum fixed as damages in the submission or otherwise, in case of revocation.

§ 1553. The provisions of this title must not be construed to prevent a recovery in an action upon the written award of one or more arbitrators, to whom a matter in controversy may be submitted in writing, to decide upon their own knowledge, with or without testimony.

TITLE IX. OF PROCEEDINGS IN SURROGATES’ COURTS.

Proceedings in general.
Proceedings in cases of insanity and habitual drunkenness.
Appeals from surrogates’ courts.

CHAPTER I. PROCEEDINGS IN GENERAL.

Proceedings according to special statutes, except as prescribed in this chapter; means of exercising powers specified.
Surrogate to keep an office, general directions.
Surrogates’ books specified.
Index to each book required.
Successor may complete business commenced.
Surrogate may not be counsel or attorney for certain persons.
Costs may be allowed in certain cases.
Orders to pay money enforced by execution.
Sheriff to execute surrogates’ process.

§ 1554. There are no pleadings in surrogates’ courts. The proceedings are those prescribed by special statutes in the cases not provided for in this chapter, except that letters of administration and letters testamentary may be known as the appointment of administrators, or executors. Those proceedings are had upon the application of a party, verbal or written; and when verbal, entered in the minutes or otherwise; when written they are filed. The surrogate’s powers are exercised by means of 1. A citation to a party; 2. An affidavit, deposition, or the statement of as party; 3. A subpoena to witness; 4. Orders and judgments; and, 5. An execution or warrant to enforce them.

§ 1555. The surrogate must keep an office open at all reasonable hours, suitable and convenient for the transaction of the business, and for the deposit and safe keeping of the public books and papers under his charge. If such office he not provided by the supervisors of the county, the surrogate must provide it, at his own expense. He may also hold his court at any other place in his county, which he may from time to time appoint. He must also provide suitable cases for the books and papers of his office, the expense of which is a county charge. They belong to the county, and must be delivered by the surrogate to his successor in office.

§ 1556. The following books must be kept by the surrogate: 1. A register, in which must be entered a memorandum of all official business transacted in his office; appertaining to the estate of each person deceased, under the name of such person; that pertaining to the general guardian of an infant under the name of such infant; that pertaining to an insane person or drunkard, under his name; 2. A record of wills, in which must be recorded all wills proved before the surrogate with the certificates of probate thereof; and of all wills proved elsewhere, upon which letters of administration are issued by him; 3. A record of appointment of administrators, whether general or special, and of executors; 4. A record of the appointment of general guardians of infants, and of committees of insane persons and drunkards ; 5. A record of accounting and of distribution, in which must be entered a summary balance sheet of the accounts of administrators, and guardians and committees before him, with his orders and judgments relating to the same; a memorandum of executions issued thereon with a note of satisfaction when satisfied; also, orders relating to the sale of real estate, and to the distribution of the proceeds thereof; and notices of all money or securities received by him, as proceeds of such sales, or otherwise; and a statement, showing the names of creditors, and the debts established and entitled to distribution, the amount to which each person is entitled out of the funds, and the amount actually paid by him to each person, and when paid; 6. A record of the appointment of admeasurers of dower; with all orders relating to the same, and the admeasurers’ reports; 7. An order book, in which must be entered orders made by him directing the conduct of‘ executors, administrators, guardians or committees; orders for publication of notice to creditors; orders in behalf of creditors, directing debts to be paid, or allowing an action to be commenced, or an execution to be issued ; appointments of special guardians, appraisers, referees and arbitrators; orders relating to the production of a will; to removal of administrators, committees or guardians; in relation to sureties for executors, administrators, committees or guardians; and all other orders which he is required to make in writing, and not required to be recorded in some other book; 8. A book of fees, in which must be entered the items of all fees for services in each particular proceeding, or estate, and when and by whom paid.

§ 1557. To each of such books, there must be attached an index, securely bound in the volume, referring to the entries in alphabetical order, under the name of the person, to whose estate or business they relate, and indicating the page of the book where the entry is made.

§ 1558. The successor in office of a surrogate has power to complete any unfinished business commenced by his predecessor.

§ 1559, A surrogate cannot be counsel or attorney in a civil action, for or against any executor, administrator, guardian, or minor, committees, or other person over whom, or whose accounts he would by law have jurisdiction ; whether such action relate to the business of the estate or not.

§ 1560. Costs may be awarded in favor of one party against another, to be paid personally out of the estate or fund, in any proceedings contested adversely before the surrogate; but such costs cannot exceed those allowed in the supreme court, for a trial in civil actions. Witnesses’ fees, and other disbursements similar to those allowed in the supreme court, may also be allowed.

§ 1561. Orders for the payment of money may be enforced by execution, or otherwise, in the same manner as judgments for the payment of money in the supreme court; except, that in the surrogate’s court, all process is issued by the surrogate.

§ 1562. Executions, warrants, and other process issued by a surrogate, must be executed by the sheriff or coroner of the county, to which they are sent to be executed, in the same manner, and with the same powers, responsibilities and fees, as process issued from the supreme court.

CHAPTER II. PROCEEDINGS IN CASES OF INSANITY AND HABITUAL DRUNKENNESS.

Surrogate has care of insane persons, and drunkards.
Committee to be appointed, their duties defined.
Overseer of the poor, or a relative, may apply.
Application to be in writing, and verified.
Surrogate to appoint time and place to investigate.
Insane person or drunkard to be summoned.
A jury of eighteen persons to be summoned.
Manner of drawing and summoning jury.
Surrogate to attend and empanel the jury for trial.
Surrogate to preside and decide questions of law.
Allegations must be proved, and may be contested.
Inquisition to be in writing, by at least nine jurors.
On verdict for applicant, committee appointed.
Appointment, its contents and disposition.
Committee must be sworn.
Appraisers to be appointed and inventory taken.
Powers of committee like those of guardian.
In paying debts, the powers of administrators.
Real property may be sold by order of surrogate.
Surrogate to ascertain and limit amount.
Sale to be conducted as administrator’s.
New security may be required.
Power to perform contracts.
When power of committee ceases.
Upon application for removal, citation to issue.
When appointment may be revoked, or the committee removed.
Surrogate’s fees, and other costs. 

§ 1563. The surrogate of the county has the care and custody of the person and property of idiots, lunatics and other persons of unsound mind, and of persons who, in consequence of habitual drunkenness, or for any other cause, are incapable of the proper care and management of their own property; all of whom are known, in this code, as insane persons, or habitual drunkards.

§ 1564. For the purpose of exercising these powers, the court may appoint a committee, or if necessary, two or three in each case, whose duty it is, 1. To take possession of the property of the person, and manage the same in a manner proper to produce income, and to prevent its being wasted or destroyed: 2. To take the care and custody of such person, and so far to hold him in restraint, as may be necessary to prevent injury to the person or property of himself or others: 3. To provide out of his property for the maintenance of such person and his family, and the education of his children: 4. To make an inventory of his property, real and personal, and to file the same in the surrogate’s office, immediately after his appointment, and to keep and annually file in the surrogate’s office, an account of all sums received and expended for the year, verified by his oath.

§ 1565. The overseer of the poor of the town, or the superintendent of the poor of the county, where the insane person or habitual drunkard resides, or any member of the family of such insane person or drunkard, or any person related to him by blood or marriage, who, in case of his death, intestate, would be entitled to any portion of his property, may apply to the surrogate for the appointment of the committee.

§ 1566. Such application must be in writing, stating the facts upon which it is founded, and verified by the affidavit of the applicant, to the effect that he believes it to be true.

§ 1567. Upon receiving the application, the surrogate must immediately appoint a time and place in the town or city, where the insane person or drunkard resides, to investigate the truth of the allegations made in the application, which time must not be less than eight not more than sixteen days thereafter.

§ 1568. The surrogate must also issue a citation to the insane person, to appear at the time and place specified, and show cause, if he have any, against the application. Such citation, with a copy of the application, must be served by the sheriff, at least six days before the time of appearance, on the insane person or drunkard and on some member of the family of such person, or of the family in which he resides, of suitable age and discretion, other than the applicant.

§ 1569. The surrogate must also issue to the sheriff an order, directing him to summon a jury of eighteen persons, to be drawn from a justice’s jury box, of the town or city where the trial is to be had, to appear at the time and place appointed for the investigation and to determine the truth of the allegations made in the application.

§ 1570. The jury must be drawn by the sheriff, in the presence of the justice, and summoned pursuant to the surrogate’s order, and a return thereof made, at the time and place specified, stating the time and manner of summoning each juror.

§ 1571. At the time and place appointed, or at such other time as the hearing may be adjourned to for cause shown, the surrogate must attend and draw and empanel a jury of twelve persons, in the same manner as a jury is drawn by a justice, for the trial of civil actions. When the jury is completed, it must be sworn by the surrogate, to investigate the truth of the matters stated in the application, and to find a true inquisition thereon, according to the evidence.

§ 1572. The surrogate must preside at the trial, and decide all questions of law arising therein, and the trial must be conducted in all respects like a trial in a civil action, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.

§ 1573. Upon such trial, the alleged insane person or drunkard may appear by counsel, and may produce witnesses on his part. But whether he appear or not, the applicant must prove the truth of the allegations made in his application.

§ 1574. The inquisition of the jury must be in writing, subscribed by at least nine of the jurors, and must declare that there exists no sufficient reason for a committee, or that the person is in one of the conditions mentioned in section 345, specifying which of them. The surrogate must instruct the jury, as to the form of the inquisition, and it may be found and subscribed in his presence, but he can take no part in the deliberation of the jury, nor advise them in respect to their decision, except on questions of law.

§ 1575. If the jury find that the person is in one of the conditions mentioned in section 1563, the surrogate must immediately appoint a committee for him. When the application is for a cause other than habitual drunkenness, the jury must state in the inquisition, whether or not, in their opinion, the disability is likely to be permanent. If the jury finds that there exists no sufficient reason for a committee, the application must be dismissed.

§ 1576. The appointment must be in writing, and must define the general duties of the committee, as prescribed in section 1564. It must be recorded in the surrogate’s office, in the book where the appointment of general guardians is recorded. The committee must also give public notice of his appointment by advertisement in a newspaper printed and published in the county.

§ 1577. The committee must be sworn to execute faithfully the duties of his trust, according to the best of his ability. He must also give security in the same manner, and to the same effect as the general guardian of an infant. The oath and undertaking must be filed in the surrogate’s office.

§ 1578. The surrogate must also appoint appraisers; and an inventory and appraisal of all the personal property of the insane person, must be taken, verified and returned in the same manner and with the same effect, as in the case of administration of the estate of a deceased person, except that it must contain also a description of the real property, and a valuation by the appraisers of the annual income of each parcel thereof.

§ 1579. The powers and responsibilities of a committee, in the execution of the trust reposed in him as prescribed by section 1564, are in all respects like those of a general guardian, in respect to an infant and his estate, except as in this chapter otherwise provided.

§ 1580. In the payment of debts, the committee must be governed by the same rules, as those which regulate the conduct of administrators.

§ 1581. When there is not personal property, sufficient with the income of the real property, for the payment of the debts, or for the proper maintenance of the insane person or drunkard person and his family, the surrogate may upon a proper accounting by the committee, of the personal, and of the income of the real, property, order the real property or such part thereof as he may deem necessary, to be sold or mortgaged to procure the necessary funds thereforee.

§ 1582. When the inquisition does not state, that the disability is likely to be permanent, the surrogate must, before ordering a sale, ascertain the probable necessary expenditure over the annual income, for a period not exceeding three years in advance, and must limit the sale or mortgage, to so much of the real property as can be sold or mortgaged separately, without material injury to the residue of the property, and as may be sufficient to raise such sum, and in all cases he must first ascertain by evidence the present condition of the person. Further sales or mortgages may be ordered from time to time, as may be necessary.

§ 1583. The proceedings for a sale or mortgage, must be conducted in all respects in the same manner, as for a sale by administrators, except as herein otherwise provided; but the proceeds of sales, instead of being paid to the surrogate, are to be placed in the hands of the committee.

§ 1584. The committee may be required to give new or additional security, or to render an account, and may be removed. He is also subject, in all other respects, to the control and direction of the surrogate, in the same manner as the general guardian of an infant.

§ 1585. The committee has power, under the direction of a court of competent jurisdiction, to execute a conveyance of real property, or to do any other act, in the specific performance of a contract made by the insane person or drunkard, when he was capable to contract.

§ 1586. The power of a committee ceases, upon the death of the insane person, and also when the disability, in respect to which he was appointed, has been adjudged by the surrogate to have ceased, or when he has been removed for any cause as provided in the next two sections.

§ 1587. Upon application to the surrogate to remove a committee or revoke appointment, made upon the affidavits of at least two respectable persons, showing misconduct of the committee, or that the disability, in respect to which the committee was appointed, has ceased, a citation must be issued to the committee, to the person upon whose application he was appointed, if living within the county, and to the next of kin, if any, within the county, who are of full age, to show cause, if they have any, why the appointment of the committee should not be removed or his appointment revoked.

§ 1588. The citation must be served at least fourteen days before the time appointed for the hearing. Upon its return duly served, or upon another day to which the hearing may be adjourned, the surrogate must bear the evidence offered for and against the application. If sufficient cause for the continuance of the committee be not shown, the surrogate must by an order declare, that the disability, in respect to which the committee was appointed, has ceased, that the powers of the committee are thereforeee revoked, and that the party for whom he was appointed is restored to his original rights. If misconduct of the committee be established, he must be removed and another appointed in his place.

§ 1589. The fees of the surrogate, on the appointment of a committee, are the same, as on the proof of a will, and for his removal, and the proceedings in relation thereto, the same as for similar services in case of administrators. Upon a trial before him, the surrogate may order costs to be paid, either by a party, or out of the funds or estate, to any other party, not exceeding the costs allowed for the trial of a civil action.

CHAPTER III. APPEALS FROM SURROGATES’ COURTS.

Appeal from surrogates’ courts, in what cases allowed.
By whom taken.
May be upon questions of fact or law.
Must be made in thirty days, but does not stay proceedings.
Manner of taking appeal.
Security must be given.

§ 1590. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court from a judgment or order in a surrogate’s court in the following cases: 1. An order admitting a will to record or probate, or refusing the same: 2. An order appointing a person administrator, executor or collector, guardian of an infant, or a committee of an insane person, or removing him, or refusing to make such appointment or removal: 3. An order directing real property to be sold, mortgaged or leased, or confirming the same : 4. An order or judgment by which a debt, claim, legacy, or distributive share is allowed, or payment thereof directed, or such allowance or direction refused: 5. Judgment upon accounting, by an executor, administrator, guardian or committee, including an intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily affecting such judgment.

§ 1591. The appeal can only be taken by a party aggrieved, who appeared and moved for or opposed the order or judgment appealed from, or who being entitled to be heard thereon, had no notice or opportunity to be heard; the latter fact to be shown by affidavit, and filed and served with the notice.

§ 1592. The appeal may be taken upon questions of fact or of law, and must be heard upon a statement of the case, to be made and settled before the surrogate, in the manner provided in section 807, and in giving judgment thereon, the decision upon the facts when separate from the questions of law, is final.

§ 1593. The appeal must be taken within thirty days after notice of the order or judgment appealed from, but such appeal does not affect the order appealed from, unless, upon motion, the supreme court, on cause shown, direct a suspension of the order, until the appeal is determined.

§ 1594. The appeal is made by the service of a notice on the adverse party, stating the appeal from the order or judgment, or some specified part thereof, and filing a copy of the notice in the office of the surrogate, and of the county clerk, together with an undertaking, with sufficient surety, approved by the surrogate or county judge, and filed in the surrogate’s office, to the effect that the party will prosecute his appeal. with due diligence to a determination, and will pay all costs that may be adjudged against him in the supreme court thereon.

TITLE X. OF PROCEEDINGS IN CASES OF INSOLVENCY.

Proceedings of insolvent to discharge himself from an imprisonment on execution.
Proceedings of an insolvent to discharge himself from his debts.
Proceedings of a creditor to close the affairs of an insolvent.

CHAPTER I. PROCEEDINGS OF INSOLVENT TO DISCHARGE HIMSELF FROM AN IMPRISONMENT ON EXECUTION.

An insolvent imprisoned may be discharged.
Manner of application to county court.
Proof of serving copy and notice on creditors.
What facts to be shown on hearing. Receiver to be appointed.
Upon receipt of property by receiver, discharge to be granted.
Duty of the receiver.

§ 1595. An insolvent who has been imprisoned on execution for thirty days, may be discharged from the imprisonment, as provided in this chapter.

§ 1596. He must present to the county court of the county where he is imprisoned, an application in writing, verified by his oath, setting forth the fact of his imprisonment, the amount, kind, and particulars of his property, and the amount, nature and particulars of his debts, with the names and residence of the creditors, so far as they are known or can be ascertained by him, and asking for his discharge from the imprisonment.

§ 1597. He must at the same time prove by affidavit, or admission in writing, that a copy of the application, with notice of presenting the same at a specified time and place, has been served on the judgment creditor, upon whose execution the insolvent is imprisoned, at least ten days before the application, in the same manner as a notice of motion in an action.

§ 1598. The application is to be heard in the same manner as any other motion, and if it be shown to the satisfaction of the court, that the allegations of the application are true, that the applicant is insolvent, that he does not conceal any of his property and that he has not after knowing his insolvency, and within six months before his application, given a preference to a creditor for an antecedent debt, by any payment or disposition of his property, the court may make an order, declaring that the applicant is an insolvent debtor, and appointing a receiver of his property.

§ 1599. Upon a certificate of the receiver, upon a copy of the inventory, that the insolvent has transferred and delivered to him all the property specified therein, excepting property exempt from execution, to be therein specified, with all books, instruments and papers relating thereto, and after due notice to the judgment creditor, the court may make an order, discharging the insolvent from his imprisonment; but such discharge shall not affect the judgment nor any other remedy for the collection thereof, other than against the person of the insolvent.

§ 1600. The receiver must proceed in the conversion of the property into money, and the distribution thereof among the creditors existing at the time of the application, whether their demands are due or not, according to their several rights, giving no preference, except where a preference is required by the statutes of this state or of the United States, and must deliver the surplus to the insolvent, under the direction of the court. The receiver is at all times subject to the control of the court, until his final discharge by its order. If other property of the insolvent, not stated in the inventory, be discovered by the receiver, it must be deemed a part of the property assigned, and the receiver must collect the same and account thereforee.

CHAPTER II. PROCEEDINGS OF INSOLVENT TO DISCHARGE HIMSELF FROM HIS DEBTS.

Application to discharge from debt, how made.
Order requiring creditors to show cause.
Manner of serving same and hearing.
If application be opposed how tried.
If not opposed order to be made appointing receiver.
Upon final report of receiver discharge may be granted, except for certain debts.

§ 1601. Any insolvent, who, at the time of his application, has resided in this state five years, may present to the county court of the county where he resides, an application in writing, verified by his oath, setting forth the fact of his insolvency, the amount, kind, and particulars of his property, and the amount, nature, and particulars of his debts, specifying the residence of his creditors, so far as they are known or can be ascertained by him, alleging that he has not given a preference as specified in section 1598, and asking a discharge from his debts.

§ 1602. Upon receiving the application, the court may make an order, requiring the creditors of the insolvent to show cause, if they have any, before the court, at a specified time and place, not less than three months thereafter, why the application should not be granted, and directing the publication once a week for ten weeks of the application, or a condensed statement thereof, and of the order, in the state paper and in two other newspapers which the court may designate as most likely to give notice to the creditors.

§ 1603. At a time and place specified, upon proof of the publication in conformity with the order, and also that a copy of one of the papers containing the application or statement, and order, was deposited in the post office, at least nine weeks previously, directed to each creditor within the United States, at his residence, when such residence is stated in the application, the court may proceed to hear the application. 

§ 1604. If a creditor appear and deny any of the material allegations of the application, or allege that the applicant has fraudulently contracted the debt to such creditor, or that such debt arose from a fraudulent misapplication by the applicant of the property of another, or that since it was contracted, the applicant, if a merchant, has not kept proper books of account; the court may either try the question of fact, or may order it to be tried by a jury or by referees.

§ 1605. If such denial or allegation be not made, or if made, be found on the trial to be untrue, the court may make an order declaring that the applicant is an insolvent debtor, and appointing a receiver of his property not exempt from execution; the receiver must give the certificate, and has the power and is subject to the responsibilities mentioned in section 1600.

§ 1606. Upon the final report of the receiver, shewing the collection and conversion into available assets, of all the property of the insolvent, not exempt from execution, and the proper application and payment thereof, if it appear that at least twenty-five per cent of each of the insolvent’s debts contracted before his application, has been paid, or a dividend to that extent offered and set apart thereon, the court may order that the insolvent be discharged from all such debts of the following’ kinds: 1. Debts due to persons who were residents of this state at the time of the application: 2. Debts contracted in this state: 3. Debts due to creditors who have received a dividend from the receiver. But such order in no case discharges a debt arising out of a fraudulent misapplication of the property of another, nor does it affect the liability of another person who is liable jointly with the insolvent.

CHAPTER III. PROCEEDINGS OF A CREDITOR TO CLOSE THE AFFAIRS OF AN INSOLVENT.

A creditor may apply to close insolvent’s affairs in cases specified.
Application to be in writing and verified.
Order to show cause, injunction allowed.
Time and manner of hearing.
Upon trial, court may appoint receiver.
Receiver’s proceedings.

§ 1607. Any creditor residing in this state having a claim arising on contract and already due, to the amount of five hundred dollars, against a debtor residing in this state, may apply to the county court, of the county Where the debtor resides, to declare him insolvent, and close his affairs, in any of the following cases: 1. When he has fraudulently contracted the debt to such creditor: 2. When he has concealed, removed or disposed of of some part of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors: 3. When an execution against his property has been returned unsatisfied in whole or in part: or, 4. When a promissory note made by him or a bill of exchange accepted by him, while engaged in the business of a merchant, broker, factor or banker, and owned by the creditor, has fallen due, and has remained unpaid and under protest for at least ten days before the application, without notice from the debtor, that he has a valid defense to such note or bill, accompanied by an offer of good security for the payment of any judgment that may be recovered thereon.

§ 1608. The application must be in writing, verified by the affidavit of the creditor, or another person, and showing that the case is within the last section, and asking that a receiver of the property of the insolvent may be appointed and his affairs closed.

§ 1609. Upon receiving such application, the court may make an order, requiring the defendant to show cause at a specified time and place, why the application would not be granted; and then or at any time afterwards, there appear to be danger of the defendant’s disposing of property, to the prejudice of the application, the court may grant an injunction against any disposition thereof.

§ 1610. At the time and place specified, upon proof of the personal service of the order to show cause, the court may proceed to hear the application. If the defendant appear and deny any of the material allegations of the application, the court must order the question of fact to be tried by a jury, or, if the defendant waive a trial by jury, may itself try the question, or may order a trial thereof by referees.

§ 1611. If such denial be not made, or, if made, be found on the trial to be untrue, the court may make an order, declaring that the defendant is an insolvent debtor, within one of the subdivisions of section 1607, specifying which, and appointing a receiver of his property.

§ 1612. The receiver must immediately publish notice of his appointment in the state paper, and in two other newspapers designated by the court, for such time as the court may direct; and, from the time of his appointment he is vested with all the property of the insolvent debtor not exempt from execution. The court may compel the transfer and delivery by the insolvent debtor of any of his property, in the manner mentioned in section. And section 1600 is applicable to the receiver appointed under this chapter.

TITLE XI. OF THE ADMEASUREMENT OF DOWER.

Widow’s dower set off by consent, or referees.
Dower may be demanded, or offered within twenty years.
Contents of demand or notice.
Proof of right of dower to be made.
Referees appointment, and description of property.
Referees to be sworn.
Vacancy may be filled.
Manner of making admeasurement.
Time to make report, may be enlarged.
Report may be vacated, and new referees appointed.
Admeasurement, when confirmed, conclusive.
Widow may bring action, if dower withheld.
Order of confirmation, subject to appeal.
Proceedings on the appeal.
Costs of admeasurement, and of appeal.
After admeasurement if widow fail to recover, she must refund costs of admeasurement.

§ 1613. A widow’s dower in the real property of her deceased husband, may be admeasured and set off to her, at any time after the death of her husband, by agreement between her and the heirs or other owners in fee thereof, who are of full age and competent to contract; or it may be set off by referees, appointed as hereinafter provided.

§ 1614. The widow may, at any time within twenty years from the death of her husband, by a notice in writing, demand the admeasurement of her dower from the heirs of her husband, or other owners in fee, or persons in possession of real property in which she is entitled to dower ; and in like manner, the heirs of the deceased husband, or other owners in fee of real property in which a widow is entitled to dower, may, by notice in writing, offer to set off to her dower therein.

§ 1615. Such demand or notice must specify the lands in which the right of dower exists or is claimed, in an intelligible manner, and must nominate three disinterested freeholders, who are not of kin to either party, as referees, to admeasure the same; and must designate a place and time, not less than ten nor more than forty days from the time of service, at which application will be made to a court having jurisdiction, for an order appointing the referees. Service thereof may be made and proved, in the same manner as the service of a summons in a civil action, except by publication.

§ 1616. Upon application to the court, at the time and place specified, or at such other time as the court may designate, proof by affidavit of the applicant or other person, must be made to the satisfaction of the court, of the right of the widow to dower in the property, and thereupon the court must appoint three referees to make the admeasurement.

§ 1617. The referees must be freeholders residing in the county where the real property or some part of it lies, and must be persons named by the parties or one of them, unless reasonable objection to them be made. The order of appointment must describe the property, out of which dower is to be admeasured, and specify the time when the report must be made.

§ 1618. The referees, before entering upon their duties, must be sworn, before some person authorized to administer oaths, that they will honestly and faithfully execute the trust reposed in them by the appointment.

§ 1619. If the persons so appointed referees, or either of them, die, resign, or fail to serve, others may be appointed in their places, by the court which appointed the first referees, and must take the same oath.

§ 1620. The referees, so appointed, must execute their duties as follows: 1. They must admeasure and lay off, as speedily as possible, the one-third part of the real property, embraced in the order for their appointment, as the dower of such widow, designating such part by posts, stones, or other permanent monuments; 2. In making such admeasurement, they must take into view, any permanent improvement made upon the property embraced in the order, by any heir, guardian of a minor, or other owner, since the death of the husband, or since the alienation thereof by him; and, if practicable, must award such improvements within that part of the property not allotted to the widow; and if not practicable so to award the same, they must make a deduction from the property allotted to the widow, proportionate to the benefit she will derive from such part of the improvements, as may be included in the portion assigned to her; 3. They must make a full report of their proceedings, with the quantity, and description of the property, admeasured and allotted by them to the widow, mentioning the posts, stones, and other permanent monuments thereof, and the items of their charges, to the court by which they were appointed, at the time specified in the order for their appointment; 4. They may employ a surveyor, with necessary assistants, to aid them in such admeasurement.

§ 1621. The court appointing such referees, may, upon their application, or that of either party, enlarge the time for making their report; and may, by order, compel such report, or discharge the referees neglecting to make the same, and appoint others in their places.

§ 1622. The court to whom, the report is made, may, at the time appointed for receiving the same, or at such other time to which the hearing may be adjourned, on good cause shown, set aside the report, and appoint, as often as may be necessary, new referees, who shall proceed in the manner hereinafter directed; and, if not set aside, the court must, by order, confirm the report and admeasurement.

§ 1623. The admeasurement so made and confirmed, shall, at the expiration of twenty days from the date of such confirmation, unless appealed from, be binding and conclusive, as to the location and extent of the widow's right of dower, on the parties who applied for the same, and on all parties to whom notice has been given, as hereinafter directed. But no person shall be precluded thereby from controverting the right of such widow to the dower so admeasured.

§ 1624. The widow to whom dower is admeasured, after the expiration of twenty days from the date of the confirmation, unless the same be appealed from, may, if possession be withheld or her right denied, bring an action to recover the possession of the lands so admeasured to her for her dower, and, upon recovery, may hold the same during her life, subject to the payment of all taxes and charges accruing thereon, subsequent to her taking possession.

§ 1625. The order of a court, confirming the admeasurement of dower, may be reviewed, by appeal in the same manner as a judgment in an action in the same court, and the manner of bringing an appeal, and the security required thereon, must be in conformity with similar proceedings in civil actions.

§ 1626. The appellate court, may, on such appeal, affirm or reverse the order, and may require a new admeasurement by the same or new referees, to be appointed by the appellate court, if the appeal be to the supreme court, or by the court in which the proceedings were originally had, if the appellate court so direct. Proceedings upon a second or other subsequent report may be had in all respects as on the first.

§ 1627. Such reasonable sum, for the costs of the party applying for admeasurement, as may be certified by the court, not exceeding twenty dollars, for each parcel of land out of which dower may be separately admeasured, besides referees’ fees and other disbursements, must be paid, one-half by the widow and the other half by the adverse party. The allowance of costs on the appeal is in the discretion of the appellate court, but when allowed, they must be at the rate allowed on appeals, to the same court, in civil actions.

§ 1628. When dower is admeasured pursuant to the provisions of this title, and the right to dower is disputed, if in an action brought by the widow to recover possession, she fail to establish her right, the share of the costs on admeasurement, which may have been paid by the other party, may be added to the costs of the defense in such action; and if the dower be withheld from her and she fail for two years to bring an action for the recovery thereof, she shall be liable in an action to the other party for the expenses of admeasurement paid by him.

TITLE XII. OF MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Disposition of the real property of infants.
Discovering the death of a person on whose life an estate depends.
The collection and remission of fines and forfeitures.
General provisions.

CHAPTER I. DISPOSITION OF THE REAL PROPERTY OF INFANTS.

Conveyance of infants’ estates under previous contract.
Sale of infant’s estate when necessary.
Manner of application and service of notice. 
Special guardian to be appointed.
Guardian to give security.
What security required.
Court to hear evidence, or may refer.
Order to be made, its contents.
Report of sale to be confirmed.
Court to direct disposition of proceeds.
Proceeding when property is subject to dower.
Several infants included in one application.
Costs limited.

§ 1629. A conveyance by an infant, of real property, owned or held by him, may be ordered by the supreme court in an action in either of the following cases: 1. When the property is held in trust for another: 2. When an agreement to convey the property has been made, and the agreement ought to be specifically performed by the infant. When so ordered, the conveyance is as effectual as if the infant were of full age. But nothing in this chapter affects a sale of infants’ estate when made, as provided in special statutes, by an executor or administrator, upon an order of the surrogate’s court.

§ 1630. The real property and leasehold estate of an infant, may be sold or mortgaged under the direction of the supreme court, or the county court of the county in a special proceeding, on the application in writing of the general guardian or some person next of kin of the infant, for him, in either of the following cases: 1. When the sale or mortgage is necessary for the infant’s support or education: 2. When the interest of the infant will be promoted by it, by reason of the unproductiveness of the property or its being exposed to waste or for any other peculiar circumstances. But such sale or mortgage can in no case be made contrary to the provisions of the will or conveyance by which the property was devised or granted to the infant. The application must state the grounds thereforee and must be verified as a complaint in an action.

§ 1631. A copy of the application must be served by delivery in the manner required for the service of a summons to commence an action against an infant, with a notice stating that the same will be presented to the court at a specified time and place, and that application to appoint a special guardian will then be made. The service must be at least ten days before the time of application, and two days in addition for every fifty miles distance from the residence of the infant to the place specified.

§ 1632. Upon the day specified, or some other day to which the hearing shall be than adjourned, the court must appoint a suitable person to be special guardian for the infant in the proceedings to be had thereon; or two or more such guardians may be appointed.

§ 1633. Before the appointment of the guardian can be effectual, and before any further proceedings can be had, security must be given by the guardian, to the infant, to be approved by the court, and in such sum as the court may by an order direct, faithfully to perform the trust reposed in him, and to account for and apply all monies received by him under the directions of the court.

§ 1634. The security must be an undertaking of the guardian, either with one or more sufficient sureties, who must justify, in the manner required for bail on arrest in an action, or with security by mortgage on unencumbered real property in the county where the real property lies, or the infant resides, worth, exclusive of buildings thereon, double the value of the amount of security required.

§ 1635. Upon security being given and upon at least eight days notice to the special guardian, or upon his ‘consent without notice, the court must proceed to hear the evidence for and against the application, or may order a reference, as in an action, to ascertain and report the facts.

§ 1636. Upon the hearing, or in case of reference, upon the report of the referee, the court must by an order grant or refuse the application. If granted, the order may direct either a sale or a mortgage of the whole or any part of the property, and must contain a description of the same.

§ 1637. Upon a report to the court, verified by the oath of the guardian, of an agreement for the sale or mortgage of the property, subject to the approval of the court, it must confirm or disapprove the same; if approved, a conveyance must be given by the guardian under the direction of the court. The report of the agreement may be made at the time of the hearing or afterwards.

§ 1638. The court must make such order for the application and disposition of the proceeds of the sale or mortgage, and for the investment of the same or any part thereof, as it shall deem best for the benefit of the infant, and must require accounts to be rendered periodically by the guardian or other person entrusted with the disposition of the proceeds or its income. Such proceeds shall be deemed real property of the same nature as the property disposed of.

§ 1639. Where property is subject to dower, and the person entitled thereto consents in writing to accept a sum in place thereof, or the income during life of a permanent investment of a reasonable sum, the court may ascertain and direct the payment of such sum out of the proceeds of the property, or the investment thereof and the payment of the income, as may be deemed reasonable and may be acceptable to the penson entitled. If no such consent be given the sale or mortgage must be made subject to the right of dower. Before any sum shall be paid or investment made, an effectual release of the right of dower must be made.

§ 1640. When there are several infants owning real estate as tenants in common or joint tenants, they may all be united in one application, but the security of the guardian must be to each severally.

§ 1641. The costs and expenses of the proceedings, not to exceed twenty-five dollars when there is but one infant, and ten dollars for each additional one embraced in the same application, may be paid by the order of the court from the proceeds of the property.

CHAPTER II. DISCOVERING THE DEATH OF A PERSON ON WHOSE LIFE AN ESTATE DEPENDS.

Application to produce person on whose life an estate depends.
Contents of application.
Twenty days’ notice to be given.
Proceedings on the hearing.
Costs may be allowed.
An estate recovered on presumption of death to be restored afterwards, if the person is living.

§ 1641. A person entitled to claim real property, or the profits thereof, after the death of another who is entitled to a prior estate, or interest therein, may, once apart, by motion, apply to the supreme court for a order, that the person, upon whose life such prior estate depends, be produced.

§ 1642. The application must be made upon affidavit, showing, 1. The interest of the applicant, in the real property which is the subject of the application, describing it, with the grounds thereof: 2. The belief of the applicant, that the person, upon whose life the prior estate depends, is dead, and that his death is concealed by the party, against whom the application is made.

§ 1643. The motion must be upon previous notice, of at least twenty days, and must be made at a special term, where a motion might be made in an action triable in the county where the real property is situated.

§ 1644. Upon such motion, the court may make an order, requiring the production and proof of the identity of the person, upon whose life the estate depends, and, in default of his production, may require of the party against whom the application is made, proof of his existence, with satisfactory reasons for his absence. Such evidence may be taken in open court, or by reference, or by commission to another state or county, together with any other evidence, which may be necessary to determine the question of the existence of such person. Such order must then be made declaring the existence or death of the person, as may be in the judgment of the court conformable to the fast. This order is primary evidence of the facts therein determined.

§ 1645. Costs on such application, and the proceedings founded thereon, not to exceed twenty-five dollars, may, in the discretion of the court, be ordered to be paid, by either party, to the other.

§ 1646. An estate, which shall have been recovered upon the presumption or proof of the death of a person, pursuant to this chapter, must be restored to the party from whom it was recovered, or to his heirs, or representatives, with the issues and profits in the meantime, if it be established that such person is living.

CHAPTER III. THE COLLECTION AND REMISSION OF FINES AND FORFEITURES.

Orders imposing fines, how made.
Clerk to deliver copy to sheriff.
Sheriff to collect fine or imprison.
When sheriff liable.
When undertaking in criminal action may be prosecuted.
County court may remit certain fines.
Power to remit fines restricted.
Summary judgment allowed on undertakings. 

§ 1647. Every order imposing a fine, except upon conviction for a public offense, must contain a direction that the delinquent be imprisoned until the fine be paid; not to exceed one day for every two dollars of the fine.

§ 1648. The clerk, immediately after the imposition of a line, must deliver to the sheriff a certified copy of the order imposing it, and transmit a copy of the same to the treasurer of the county. One order may provide for the collection of all the fines imposed at the same court.

§ 1649. The sheriff must proceed to collect the fines or to imprison the delinquents named in the order, and within sixty days from the time of receiving the copy of the order, must pay over to the county treasurer the fines collected by him, and file his return in the county clerk’s office, showing the manner in which he has executed the order, stating the amount paid to the county treasurer, if any. Fines imposed by a city court must be paid into the city treasury.

§ 1650. The sheriff is liable to the county or city for the amount of every fine specified in the order, unless it appear by his return that the person, on whom the fine was imposed, has been arrested, or could not be found. Such liability may be enforced by action in the supreme court or by motion in the county court. The sheriff is liable by action for a false return.

§ 1651. When an undertaking or the condition of a recognizance, in a criminal action, is by any court declared broken, the court in which it is filed, or the county court of the county where it is filed, may order the same to be prosecuted. If judgment be given for the plaintifff in such action, it must be for the penalty or sum specified in the undertaking.

§ 1652. The county court may, except in the cases specified in the next section, remit wholly or partly fines imposed or forfeitures declared by any court in the county, on application and cause shown, and on such terms as may be deemed just. If the fine or forfeiture remitted shall have been paid, the officer in whose hands it may be, must refund the same, or the part thereof remitted, upon an order of the court to that effect.

§ 1653. Fines imposed on conviction of a public offense or for actual contempt of a court, or for disobedience to its orders or process, can only be remitted by the court by which they were imposed, and that on cause shown, upon notice to the district attorney. An undertaking entered into in one county, for the appearance of a person in another, can only be remitted or discharged by the court, in which such person was bound to appear, or by the county court of that county, after the time designated for such appearance, and then only upon notice to the district attorney and on cause shown.

§ 1654. Summary judgment upon an undertaking declared forfeited, may be ordered by the court, without action, on motion of the district attorney, after ten days previous notice to the adverse party, of the application for the forfeiture and for judgment thereon.

CHAPTER IV. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Appeals from final orders in county court.
Manner of the appeal.
General rules as to certain special proceedings.
General rule as to amendments in special proceedings.

§ 1655. From the judgment of a county court, in any special proceeding, except when otherwise expressly prescribed by this code, an appeal may be taken to the supreme court, and thence to the court of appeals.

§ 1656. The appeal must be taken in the same manner, within the same time, and upon the same security, as an appeal from a judgment at a general term of the county court, in a civil action commenced therein, except as otherwise expressly provided by a particular provision of this code.

§ 1657. In special proceedings where the costs are not by this code defined, the court may, in its discretion, require costs to be paid by any party to another, or to be paid from the fund which is the subject of the proceeding. The costs allowed must be a fixed sum, to be determined by the court, on the hearing, or afterwards on motion, and must not exceed the rate of costs allowed for similar services in actions.

§ 1658. Amendments, in furtherance, of justice may be allowed by any court or judicial officer in a special proceeding before him, in every stage thereof, upon such terms as to costs or otherwise, as may be proper; and a substitution may, in the same manner, be allowed of a successor in interest, in place of a party, when by reason of death or other cause it becomes proper.

PART IV. OF EVIDENCE. 

Of the general principles of evidence.
Of the kinds and degrees of evidence.
Of the production of evidence.
Of the effect of evidence.
Of the rights and duties of witnesses.
Of evidence in particular cases and miscellaneous and general provisions.

GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND DIVISIONS.

Definition of evidence.
Definition of proof.
Definition of law of evidence.
The degree of certainty, required to establish facts.
Four kinds of evidence specified.
Several degrees of evidence specified.
Original evidence, defined.
Secondary evidence defined.
Direct evidence defined.
Indirect evidence defined.
Primary evidence defined.
Partial evidence defined.
Satisfactory evidence defined.
Indispensible evidence defined.
Conclusive evidence defined.
Cumulative evidence defined.
Corroborative evidence defined.
General divisions and arrangement.

§ 1659. Judicial evidence is the means, sanctioned by law, of ascertaining in a judicial proceeding the truth respecting a question of fact.

§ 1660. Proof is the effect of evidence, the establishment of a fact by evidence.

§ 1661. The law of evidence, which is the subject of this part of the code, is a collection of general rules established by law, 1. For declaring what is to be taken as true, without proof: 2. For declaring the presumptions of law, both those which are disputable and those which are conclusive; and 3. For the production of legal evidence: 4. For the exclusion of whatever is not legal: 5. For determining in certain cases the value and effect of evidence.

§ 1662. The law does not require demonstration, that is, such a degree of proof as, excluding possibility of error, produces absolute certainty; because such proof is rarely possible. Moral certainty only is required, or that degree of proof, which produces conviction in an unprejudiced mind.

§ 1663. There are four kinds of evidence: 1. The knowledge of the court: 2. The testimony of witnesses: 3. Writings: 4. Other material objects presented to the senses.

§ 1664. There are several degrees of evidence: 1. Original and secondary: 2. Direct and indirect: 3. Primary, partial, satisfactory, indispensable and conclusive.

§ 1665. Original evidence is an original writing or material object introduced in evidence.

§ 1666. Secondary evidence is a copy of such original writing or object, or oral evidence thereof.

§ 1667. Direct evidence is that which proves the fact in dispute, directly, without an inference or presumption, and which in itself, if true, conclusively establishes that fact. For example, if the fact in dispute be an agreement, the evidence of a witness who was present and witnessed the making of it, is direct.

§ 1668. Indirect evidence is that, which tends to establish the fact in dispute by proving another, and which, though true, does not of itself conclusively establish that fact, but which affords an inference or presumption of its existence. For example, a witness proves an admission of the party to the fact in dispute. This proves a fact, from which the fact in dispute is inferred.

§ 1669. Primary evidence is that, which suffices for the proof of a particular fact, until contradicted and overcome by other evidence. For example, the certificate of a recording officer is primary evidence of a record; but it may be afterwards rejected upon proof that there is no such record.

§ 1670. Partial evidence is that, which goes to establish a detached fact, in a series tending to the fact in dispute. It may be received, subject to be rejected as incompetent, unless connected with the fact in dispute, by proof of other facts. For example, on an issue of title to real property, evidence of the continued possession of a remote occupant is partial, for it is of a detached fact, which may or may not be afterwards connected with the fact in dispute.

§ 1671. That evidence is deemed satisfactory, which ordinarily produces moral certainty, or conviction in an unprejudiced mind. Such evidence alone will justify a verdict. Evidence less than this is denominated slight evidence.

§ 1672. Indispensable evidence is that, without which a particular fact cannot be proved.

§ 1673. Conclusive or unanswerable evidence is that, which the law does not permit to be contradicted. For example, the record of a court of competent jurisdiction cannot be contradicted by the parties to it.

§ 1674. Cumulative evidence is additional evidence of the same character, to the same point.

§ 1675. Corroborative evidence is additional evidence of a different character, to the same point.

§ 1676. This part of the code is divided into six titles: The first contains the general principles of evidence: The second relates to the kinds and degrees of evidence and contains the rules by which is determined what may be received as evidence: The third title relates to the production of evidence: The fourth relates to the effect of evidence: The fifth relates to the rights and duties of witnesses: The sixth relates to evidence in particular cases, and contains also miscellaneous and general provisions.

TITLE I. OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF EVIDENCE.

One witness sufficient to prove a fact.
Testimony confined to personal knowledge.
Testimony to be in presence of persons affected.
Witness presumed to speak the truth.
One person not affected by acts of another.
Declarations of predecessor in the title evidence.
Declarations which are part of the transaction.
Evidence relating to third persons.
Declarations of deceased person, evidence of pedigree.
Declarations of deceased person, evidence against his successor in interest.
When part of a transaction proved, the whole is admissible.
Contents of writing, how proved.
An agreement reduced to writing, deemed the whole.
Construction of language, related to place where used.
Construction of states and instruments, general rule.
The intention of the legislature or parties.
The circumstances to be considered.
Terms to be construed in their general acceptation.
Written words control those printed in a blank form.
Persons skilled may testify to decipher characters.
Of two constructions, which preferred.
A written instrument construed as understood by parties.
Construction in favor of natural right preferred.
Material allegation only to be proved.
Evidence confined to material allegation.
Affirmative only to be proved.
Facts which may be proved on trial.

§ 1677. The direct evidence of one witness, who is entitled to full credit, is sufficient for proof of any fact, except usage, perjury and treason.

§ 1678. A witness can testify of those facts only which he knows of his own knowledge, that is, which are derived from his own perceptions; except in those few express cases, in which his opinions, or inferences or the declarations of others, are admissible.

§ 1679. A witness can be heard only upon oath or affirmation; and, upon a trial, he can be heard only, in the presence, and subject to the examination, of all the parties, if they choose to attend and examine.

§ 1680. A witness is presumed to speak the truth. This presumption, however, may be repelled by the manner in which he testifies, by the character of his testimony, or by evidence affecting his character or motives, or by contradictory evidence; and the jury are the exclusive judges of his credibility.

§ 1681. The rights of a party cannot be prejudiced by the declaration, act or omission of another, except by virtue of a particular relation between them; thereforee proceedings against one cannot affect another.

§ 1682. Where, however, one derives title to real property from another, the declaration, act or omission of the latter, while holding the title, in relation to the property is evidence against the former.

§ 1683. Where also the declaration, act or omission, forms part of a transaction, which is itself the fact in dispute, or evidence of that fact, such declaration, act or omission, is evidence, as part of the transaction.

§ 1684. And where the question in dispute between the parties, is the obligation or duty of a third person, whatever would be evidence for or against such person, is primary evidence between the parties.

§ 1685. The declaration, act or omission of a member of a family, who is deceased, or out of the jurisdiction, is also admissible as evidence of common reputation, in cases where, on questions of pedigree, such reputation is admissible.

§ 1686. The declaration, act or omission of a deceased person, having sufficient knowledge of the subject, against his pecuniary interest, is also admissible as evidence to that extent, against his successor in interest.

§ 1687. When part of an act, declaration, conversation or writing, is given in evidence by one party, the whole, on the same subject, may be inquired into by the other; when a letter is read, the answer may be given; and when a detached act, declaration, conversation or writing is given in evidence, any other act, declaration, conversation or writing, which is necessary to make it understood, may also be given in evidence.

§ 1688. There can be no evidence of the contents of a writing, other than the writing itself, except in the following cases: 1. When the original is in the possession of the party against whom the evidence is offered, and he withholds it under the circumstances mentioned in section 1758: 2. When the original cannot be produced, by the party by whom the evidence is offered, in a reasonable time, with proper diligence, and its absence is not owing to his neglect or default: 3. When the original is a record, or other document, in the custody of a public officer: 4. When the original is a record or other document, of which a certified copy is expressly made evidence by this code, or some other statute of this state: 5. When the originals consist of numerous accounts or other documents, which cannot be examined in court, without great loss of time, and the evidence sought from them, is ‘only the general result of the whole. In the cases mentioned in subdivisions 3 and 4, a copy of the original must be produced; in those mentioned in subdivisions 1 and 2, either a copy or oral evidence of the contents.

§ 1689. When the terms of an agreement have been reduced to writing by the‘ parties, it is to be considered as containing all those terms, and thereforee there can be, between the parties and their representatives, or successors in interest, no evidence of the terms of the agreement, other than the contents of the writing, except in the following cases: 1. Where a mistake or imperfection of the writing is put in issue by the pleadings: 2. Where the validity of the agreement is the fact in dispute. But this section does not exclude other evidence of the circumstances under which the agreement was made, or to which it relates, as defined in section 1693, or to explain an ambiguity, intrinsic or extrinsic, or to establish illegality or fraud. The term agreement includes deeds and wills, as well as contracts between parties.

§ 1690. The language of a writing is to be interpreted, according to the meaning it bears in the place of its execution, unless the parties have reference to a different place.

§ 1691. In the construction of a statute or instrument, the office of the judge is simply to ascertain and declare, what is, in terms or in substance, contained therein, not to insert what has been omitted, or to omit what has been inserted; and, where there are several provisions or particulars, such a construction is if possible, to be adopted as will give effect to all.

§ 1692. In the construction of a statute, the intention of the legislature, and in the construction of an instrument, the intention of the parties, is to be pursued if possible; and when a general and particular provision are inconsistent, the latter is paramount to the former. So a particular intent will control a general one, that is inconsistent with it.

§ 1693. For the proper construction of an instrument, the circumstances under which it was made, including the situation of the subject of the instrument, and of the parties to it, may also be shown, so that the judge be placed in the position of those, whose language he is to interpret.

§ 1694. The terms of a writing are presumed to have been used in their primary and general acceptation, but evidence is nevertheless admissible, that they have a local, technical or otherwise peculiar signification, and were so used and understood in the particular instance, in which case the agreement must be construed accordingly.

§ 1695. When an instrument consists partly of written words, and partly of a printed form, and the two are inconsistent, the former controls the latter.

§ 1696. When the characters, in which an instrument is written, are difficult to be deciphered, or the language of the instrument is not understood by the court, the evidence of persons skilled in deciphering the characters, or who understand the language, is admissible to declare the characters, or the meaning of the language.

§ 1697. When the terms of an agreement have been intended in a different sense by the different parties to it, that sense is to prevail, against either party, in which he supposed the other understood it; and when different constructions of a provision are otherwise equally proper, that is to be taken which is most favorable to the party, in whose favor the provision was made.

§ 1698. A written notice, as well as every other writing, is to be construed according to the ordinary acceptation of its terms. Thus a notice to the drawers or endorsers of a bill of exchange or promissory note, that it has been protested for want of acceptance or payment, must be held to import, that the same has been duly presented for acceptance or payment, and the same refused, and that the holder looks for payment, to the person to whom the notice is given.

§ 1699. Where a statute or instrument, is equally susceptible of two interpretations, one in favor of natural right, and the other against it, the former is to be adopted.

§ 1701. None but a material allegation need be proved.

§ 1702. Evidence must correspond with the substance of the material allegations and be relevant to the question in dispute. Collateral questions must thereforee be avoided. It is however within the discretion of the court, to permit inquiry into a collateral fact, when such fact is directly connected with the question in dispute and is essential to its proper determination, or when it affects the credibility of a witness.

§ 1703. Each party must prove his own affirmative allegations. Evidence need not be given in support of a negative allegation, except when such negative allegation is an essential part of the statement of the right or title, on which the cause of action or defense is founded, nor even in such case when the allegation is a denial of the existence of a document, the custody of which belongs to the opposite party.

§ 1704. In conformity with the preceding provisions, evidence may be given, upon a trial, of the following facts : 1. The precise fact in dispute; 2. The act, declaration or omission of a party as evidence against such party; 3. An act or declaration of another, in the presence and within the observation of a party, and his conduct in relation thereto; 4. The act or declaration, verbal or written, of a deceased person, in respect to the relationship, birth, marriage or death of any person related by blood or marriage to such deceased person; the act or declaration of a deceased person, done or made against his interest in respect to his real property; and also in criminal actions, the act or declaration of a dying person, made under a sense of impending death, respecting the cause of his death; 5. After. proof of a partnership or agency, the act or declaration of a partner or agent of the party, within the scope of the partnership or agency, and its existence; the same rule applies to the act or declaration of a joint owner, joint debtor or other person jointly interested with the party; 6. After proof of a conspiracy, the act or declaration of a conspirator against his co-conspirator, and relating to the conspiracy; 7. The act, declaration or omission; forming part of a transaction, as explained in section 1683; 8. The testimony of a witness deceased, or out of the jurisdiction, or unable to testify, given in a former action between the same parties, relating to the same matter; 9. The opinion of a witness respecting the identity or handwriting of a person, when he has knowledge of the person or handwriting; his opinion on a question of science, art or trade, when he is skilled therein; 10. The opinion of a subscribing witness to a writing, the validity of which is in dispute, respecting the mental sanity of the signer, and the opinion of an intimate acquaintance, respecting the mental sanity of a person, the reason for the opinion being given; 11. Common reputation, existing previous to the controversy, respecting facts of a public or general interest, more than thirty years old, and in cases of pedigree and boundary; 12. Usage, to explain the true character of an act, contract or instrument, where such true character is not otherwise plain; but usage is never admissible except as an instrument of interpretation; 13. Monuments and inscriptions in public places, as evidence of common reputation, and entries in family bibles or other family books or charts, engravings on rings, family portraits, and the like, as evidence of pedigree; 14. The contents of a writing, when oral evidence thereof is admissible; 15. Any other facts from which the facts in issue are presumed, or are logically inferable: 16. Such facts as serve to show the credibility of a witness as explained in section 1680.

TITLE II. OF THE KINDS AND DEGREE OF EVIDENCE.

Knowledge of the court.
Witnesses.
Writings.
Material objects presented to the senses, other than writings.
Indirect evidence.
Indispensable evidence.
Conclusive and unanswerable evidence.

CHAPTER I. KNOWLEDGE OF THE COURT.

Certain facts of general notoriety, assumed to be true.
Specification of such facts.

§ 1705. There are certain facts of such general notoriety, that they are assumed to be already known to the court. Of those facts evidence need not be produced.

§ 1706. The following facts are assumed to be thus known: 1. The true signification of all English words and phrases, and of all legal expressions: 2. Whatever is established by law: 3. Public and private official acts of the legislative, executive and judicial departments of this state of the United States: 4. The seals of all the courts of this state and of the United States: 5. The accession to office, and the official signatures and seals of office, of the principal officers of government, in the legislative, executive and judicial departments of this state and of the United States: 6. The existence, title, national flag and seal of every state, or sovereign, recognized by the executive power of the United States: 7. The seals of courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and of notaries public: 8. The laws of nature, the measure of time, and the geographical divisions and political history of the world. In all these cases, the court may resort for its aid to appropriate books or documents of reference.

CHAPTER II. WITNESSES.

Witnesses defined.
All persons capable of perception and communication may be witnesses.
Persons who cannot testify.
Persons in certain relation to parties, prohibited.
When privileged persons must testify.

§ 1707. A witness is a person whose declaration under oath is received as evidence for any purpose, whether such declaration be made on oral examination, or by deposition or affidavit.

§ 1708. All persons, without exception, otherwise than as specified in the next two sections, who, having organs of sense, can perceive, and perceiving can make known their perceptions to others, may be witnesses. Therefore neither parties, nor other persons who have an interest in the event of an action or proceeding, are excluded; nor those who have been convicted of crime; nor persons on account of their opinions on matters of religious belief: although in every case, the credibility of the witness may be drawn in question, as provided in section 1680.

§ 1709. The following persons are not admissible: 1. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their production for examination: 2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts, respecting which they are examined, or of relating them truly.

§ 1710. There are, particular relations, in which it is the policy of the law to encourage confidence, and to preserve it inviolate; thereforee, a person cannot be examined, as a witness, in the following cases: 1. A husband cannot be examined, for or against his wife, without her consent, nor a wife, for or against her husband, without his consent, nor can either, during the marriage or afterwards, be, without the consent of the other, examined, as to any communication made by one to the other during the marriage. But this exception does not apply to a civil action or proceeding, by one against the other, nor to a criminal action or proceeding, for a crime committed by one against the other; 2. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his client, be examined, as to any communication made by the client to him, or his advice given thereon, in the course of professional employment; 3. A clergyman, or priest cannot, without the consent of the person making the confession, be examined as to any confession made to him in his professional character, in the course of discipline, enjoined by the church to which he belongs; 4. A licensed physician or surgeon cannot, without the consent of his patient, be examined, in a civil action, as to any information acquired in attending the patient, which was necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the patient: 5. A public officer cannot be examined as to communications made to him in official confidence, when the public interests would suffer by the disclosure.

§ 1711. If a person offer himself as a witness, that is to be deemed a consent to the examination also, of a wife, husband, attorney, clergyman, physician or surgeon, on the same subject, within the meaning of the first four subdivisions of the last section.

CHAPTER III. WRITINGS.

Writings in general.
Public writings.
Private writings.

ARTICLE I. WRITINGS IN GENERAL.

Writings, public and private.
Public writings defined.
All others private.

§ 1712. Writings are of two kinds: 1. Public: and, 2. Private.

§ 1713. Public Writings are: 1. The written acts, or records of the acts, of the sovereign authority, of official bodies and tribunals, and of public officers, legislative, judicial and executive, whether of this state, of the United States, of a sister state, or of a foreign country: 2. Public records, kept in this state, of private writings.

§ 1714. All other writings are private.

ARTICLE II. PUBLIC WRITINGS.

Every citizen entitled to inspect and copy public writings.
Public officers bound to give copies.
Four kinds of public writings.
Laws, written or unwritten.
Written laws defined.
Constitution and statutes.
Public and private statutes defined.
Unwritten law defined.
Books containing laws presumed to be correct.
Public seal authenticates a law or document.
Other evidence of laws of other states.
Recitals in statutes, how far evidence.
Judicial record defined.
Record, how authenticated as evidence.
Record of a foreign country, how authenticated.
Oral evidence of a foreign record.
Effect of a judgment upon rights in various cases.
Effect of other judicial orders when conclusive.
Where parties are to be deemed the same.
What deemed and adjudged in a judgment.
Where sureties bound, principal is also.
Record of another state, its effect.
Record of a court of admiralty.
Effect of a foreign judgment.
Manner of impeaching a record.
The jurisdiction necessary in a judgment.
Manner of proving other official documents.
Public record of private writing, evidence.
Entries in official books primary evidence.
Justices’ judgment, in other states, how proved.
Contents of other official certificates.
Provisions in relation to states, apply to territories.
Writings called for and inspected may be withheld.
Where there is a subscribing witness, the proof.
Other witnesses may also testify.
Where evidence of execution not necessary.
Evidence of handwriting.
Allowed by comparison.
Entries of persons deceased, evidence in specified cases.
Copies of entries also allowed.
Private writings acknowledged and certified.
County clerks to keep private papers deposited.
Surrogate to keep wills deposited.
When and to whom re-delivered.
Public records not to be carried about.

§ 1715. Every citizen has a right to inspect, and take a copy of, any public writing of this state, except as otherwise expressly provided by statute.

§ 1716. Every public officer, having the custody of a public writing, which a citizen has a right to inspect, is bound to give him, on demand, a certified copy of it, on payment of the legal fees thereforee, and such copy is primary as evidence of the original writing.

§ 1717. Public writings are divided into four classes: 1. Laws: 2. Judicial records: 3. Other official documents: 4. Public records, kept in this state, of private writings.

§ 1718. Laws, whether organic or ordinary, are either written or unwritten.

§ 1719. A. written law is that which is promulgated in writing, and of which a record is in existence.

§ 1720. The organic law is the constitution of government, and is altogether written. Other written laws are denominated statutes. The written law of this state is thereforee contained in its constitution and statutes, and in the constitution and statutes of the United States.

§ 1721. Statutes are public or private. A private statute, is one which concerns only certain designated individuals, and affects only their private rights. All other statutes are public, in which are included, statutes creating or affecting corporations.

§ 1722. Unwritten law is the law not promulgated and recorded, as mentioned in section 1719, but which is nevertheless observed and administered in the courts of the country. It has no certain repository; but is collected from the reports of the decisions of the courts and the treatises of learned men.

§ 1723. Books, printed or published, under the authority of a sister state, or foreign country, and purporting to contain the statutes, code, or other written law, of such state or country, or proved to be commonly admitted in the tribunals of such state, or country, as evidence of the written law thereof, are admissible in this state, as evidence of such law.

§ 1724. The public seal of the state or country, affixed to a copy of a written law, or other public writing, is also admissible as evidence of such law or writing.

§ 1725. The oral testimony of witnesses skilled therein, is admissible as evidence of the unwritten law, of a sister state, or foreign country, as are also printed and published books of reports of decisions of the courts of such state, or country, or proved to be commonly admitted in such courts.

§ 1726. The recitals in a public statute, are conclusive evidence of the facts recited for the purpose of carrying it into effect, but no further. The recitals in a private statute, are conclusive evidence between parties who claim under its provisions, but no farther.

§ 1727. A judicial record, is the record or official entry of the proceedings in a court of justice, or of the official act of a judicial officer, in an action or special proceeding.

§ 1728. A judicial record of this state, or of the United States, may be proved by the production of the original, or by a copy thereof; certified by the clerk, or other person having the legal custody thereof. That of a sister state, may be proved by the attestation of the clerk, and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a clerk and seal, together with a certificate of the chief judge, or presiding magistrate, that the attestation is in due form.

§ 1729. A judicial record of a foreign country, may be proved by the attestation of the clerk, with the seal of the court annexed, if there be a clerk and seal, or of the legal keeper of the record with the seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the chief judge, or presiding magistrate, that the person making the attestation is the clerk of the court, or the legal keeper of the record, and in either case, that the signature of such person is genuine; and also together with the certificate of the secretary of state, or other officer of the government, under whose authority the record is kept, having the custody of the great or principal seal of such government, to the effect that the court or officer, whose judicial act is certified, had jurisdiction to perform such act, specifying generally the nature of the jurisdiction, and verifying the signature of the clerk, or other legal keeper of the record, and also verifying the signature of the chief judge, or presiding magistrate.

§ 1730. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign country is also admissible in evidence upon proof; 1. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness with the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of it: 2. That such original was in the custody of the clerk of the court, or other legal keeper of the same: and 3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is proved to be the seal of the court where the record remains, if it be the record of a court, or if there be no such seal, or if it be not a record of a court, by the signature of the legal keeper of the original.

§ 1731. The effect of a judgment, or final order, in an action or special proceeding, before a court or judge of this state, or of the United States, having jurisdiction to pronounce the judgment or order, is as follows : 1. In case of a judgment, or order, against a specific thing, or in respect to the probate of a will or the administration of the estate of a deceased person, or in respect to the personal, political or legal condition or relation of a particular person, the judgment or order is conclusive upon the title to the thing, the will or administration, or the condition or relation of the person: 2. In other cases, the judgment or order is, in respect to the matter directly adjudged, conclusive between the parties, and their successors in interest by title subsequent to the commencement of the action or special proceeding, litigating for the same thing, under the same title, and in the same capacity.

§ 1732. Other judicial orders of a court or judge of this state, or of the United States, create a disputable presumption according to the matter directly determined, between the same parties, and their representatives and successors in interest by title subsequent to the commencement of the action or special proceeding, litigating for the same thing, under the same title, and in the same capacity.

§ 1733. The parties are deemed to be the same, when those, between whom the evidence is offered, were on opposite sides in the former case, and a judgment, or other determination, could in that case have been made between them alone, though other parties were joined with both or either.

§ 1734. That only is deemed to have been adjudged in a former judgment, which appears upon its face to have been so adjudged, or which was actually and necessarily included therein, or necessary thereto.

§ 1735. Whenever, pursuant to the last four sections, a party is bound by a record, and such party stands in the relation of a surety for another, the latter is also bound, from the time that he has notice of the action or proceeding, and an opportunity, at the surety’s request, to join in the defense.

§ 1736. The effect of a judicial record of a sister state, is the same in this state as in the state where it was made, except that it can only be enforced here by an action or special proceeding, and except also, that the authority of a guardian or committee, or of an executor or administrator, does not extend beyond the jurisdiction of the government, under which he was invested with his authority.

§ 1737. The effect of the judicial record of a court of admiralty of’ a foreign country, is the same as if it were the record of a court of admiralty of the United States.

§ 1738. The effect of the judgment of any other tribunal of a foreign country, having jurisdiction to pronounce the judgment, is as follows: 1. In case of a judgment against a specific thing, the judgment is conclusive, upon the title to the thing: 2. ln case of a judgment against a person, the judgment is presumptive evidence of a right, as between the parties, and their successors in interest by a subsequent title, and can only be repelled by evidence of a want of jurisdiction, want of notice to the party, collusion, fraud or clear mistake of law or fact.

§ 1739. Any judicial record may be impeached, by evidence of a want of jurisdiction in the court or judicial officer, of collusion between the parties, or of fraud in the party offering the record, in respect to the proceedings.

§ 1740. The jurisdiction sufficient to sustain a record, is jurisdiction over the cause, over the parties, and over the thing when a specific thing is the subject of the judgment.

§ 1741. Other official documents may be proved as follows : 1. Acts of the executive of this state, by the records of the state department of the state, and of the United States, by the records of the state department of the United States, certified by the heads of those departments respectively; they may also be proved by public documents, printed by order of the legislature or congress, or either house thereof: The proceedings of the legislature of this state, or of congress, by the journals of those bodies respectively, or either house thereof, or by published statutes or resolutions, or by copies certified by the clerk, or printed by their order: 3. The acts of the executive, or the proceedings of the legislature, of a sister state, in the same manner: 4. The acts of the executive, or the proceedings of the legislature, of a foreign country, by journals published by their authority, or commonly received in that county as such, or by a copy certified, under the seal of the country or sovereign, or by a recognition thereof, in some public act of the executive of the United States. 5. Acts of a municipal corporation of this state, or of a board or department thereof, by a copy certified by the legal keeper thereof, or by a printed book published by the authority of such corporation: 6. Documents of any other class in this state, by the original, or by a copy certified by the legal keeper thereof : 7. Documents of any other class in a sister state, by the original, or by a copy certified by the legal keeper thereof, together with the certificate of the secretary of state, judge of the supreme, superior, or county court, or mayor of a city, of such state, that the copy is duly certified by the officer having the legal custody of the original: 8. Documents of any other class in a foreign country, by the original, or by a copy certified by the legal keeper thereof, with a certificate under the seal of the country or sovereign, that the document is a valid and subsisting document of such country, and that the copy is duly certified by the officer having the legal custody of the original.

§ 1742. A public record of a private writing may be proved by the original record, or, by a copy thereof certified by the legal keeper of the record.

§ 1743. Entries in public, or other official books, or records, made in the performance of his duty, by a public officer of this state, or by another person, in the performance of a duty specially enjoined by law, are primary evidence of the facts stated therein.

§ 1744. A transcript from the record, or docket, of a justice of the peace of a sister state, of a judgment rendered by him, of the proceedings in the action before the judgment, of the execution and return, if any, subscribed by the justice and verified in the manner prescribed in the next section, is admissible evidence of the facts stated therein;

§ 1745. There must be attached to the transcript, a certificate of the justice, that the transcript is in all respects correct, and that he had jurisdiction of the action, and also a further certificate of the clerk or prothonotary of the county in which the justice resided at the time of rendering the judgment, under the seal of the county, or the seal of the court of common pleas or county court thereof, certifying that the person subscribing the transcript was, at the date of the judgment, a justice of the peace in the county, and that the signature is genuine. Such judgment, proceedings and jurisdiction may also be proved by the justice himself, or the production of his docket, or by a copy of the judgment and his oral examination as a witness.

§ 1746. Whenever a copy of a writing is certified fair the purpose of evidence, the certificate must state that the copy has been compared by the certifying officer with the original, and is a correct transcript therefrom, and of the whole of such original, or of a specified part thereof. The official seal, if there be any, of the certifying officer, must also be affixed to the certificate, except when the certificate of a clerk of a court is used in the same court or before an officer thereof.

§ 1747. The provisions of the preceding sections of this article, applicable to the public writings of a sister state, are equally applicable to the public writings of a territory of the United States.

ARTICLE III. PRIVATE WRITINGS.

Private writings classified.
Seal defined.
Manner of making it.
Effect of a seal.
Execution of an instrument defined.
Compromise of a debt without seal good.
Last three sections not to repeal certain statutes.
Subscribing witness defined.
Books, maps, &c., how far evidence.
Original writing to be produced or accounted for.
When in possession of adverse party, notice to be given.

§ 1748. Private writings are either, 1. Sealed; or, 2. Unsealed.

§ 1749. A seal is a particular sign, made to attest in the most formal manner, the execution of an instrument.

§ 1750. A public seal in this state is a stamp or impression made upon wax, wafer, paper, or any other substance, upon which a visible and permanent impression can be made. A private seal may be made in the same manner, or it may be made, without an impression, by a wafer or wax attached to the instrument or by a paper attached to it by an adhesive substance. A scroll or other sign, made in a sister state or foreign country, and there recognized as a seal, must be so regarded in this state, except for a transfer of real property, in this state.

§ 1751. The seal affixed to a writing is presumptive evidence of a consideration. In other respects there is no difference between sealed and unsealed writings, except as to the time of commencing actions thereon. A writing under seal may thereforeee be changed, or altogether discharged, by a writing not under seal, or by an oral agreement otherwise valid.

§ 1752. The execution of an instrument is the subscribing and delivering it, with or without affixing a seal.

§ 1753. An agreement in writing, without a seal, for the compromise or settlement of a debt, is as obligatory as if a seal were affixed.

§ 1754. The last three sections do not repeal any statute of this state expressly requiring a seal to a deed or other instrument.

§ 1755. A subscribing witness, is one who sees a writing executed, or hears it acknowledged, and, at the request of the party, thereupon signs his name as a 	 witness.

§ 1756. Historical works, books of science or art, and Published maps or charts, when made by person indifferent between the parties, are primary evidence of facts of general notoriety and interest.

§ 1757. The original writing must be produced and proved, except as provided in section 1688. If it have been lost, proof of the loss must first be made, before evidence can be given of its contents. Upon such proof being made, together with proof of the due execution of the writing, its contents may be proved by a copy, or by a recital of its contents in some authentic document, or by the recollection of a witness, as provided in section 1688.

§ 1758. If the writing be in the custody of the adverse party, he must first have reasonable notice to produce it. If he then fail to do so, the contents of the writing may be proved as in case of its loss. But the notice to produce it, is not necessary where the writing is itself a notice, or where it has been wrongfully obtained or withheld by the adverse party.

§ 1759. Though a writing, called for by one party, is produced by the other, and is thereupon inspected by the party calling for it, he is not obliged to produce it as evidence in the case.

§ 1760. If there be a subscribing witness to a writing, produced in evidence, its execution must be proved by him, if he can be produced, and can testify. If there be more than one subscribing witness, the evidence of one is sufficient. If all the subscribing witnesses be dead, or out of the jurisdiction, or incapable of attending or testifying, or cannot be found, the handwriting of one of them, and that of the party must be proved.

§ 1761. If the subscribing witness denies, or does not recollect, the execution of the writing, its execution may still be proved by other evidence.

§ 1762. Where however, evidence, is given that the party, against whom the writing is offered, has at any time admitted its execution, no other evidence of the execution need be given, when the instrument is one mentioned in section 1765, or one produced from the custody of the adverse party, and has been acted upon by him as genuine.

§ 1763. The handwriting of a person may be shown, by any one who believes it to be his, and who has seen him write, or has seen writings purporting to be his, upon which he has acted or been charged, and who has thus acquired a knowledge of his handwriting.

§ 1764. Evidence respecting the handwriting may also be given, by a comparison, made by the witnesses, or the jury, with writings, admitted or treated as genuine by the party against whom the evidence is offered.

§ 1765. Where a writing is more than thirty years old, the comparison may be made with writings, purporting to be genuine, and generally respected and acted upon as such, by persons having an interest in knowing the fact.

§ 1766. The entries and other writings of a person. deceased, made at or near the time of the transaction, and in a position to know the facts stated therein, may be read, as primary evidence of the facts stated therein, in the following cases: 1. When the entry was made against the interest of the person making it: or 2. When it was made in a professional capacity, and in the ordinary course of professional conduct: 3. When it was made in the performance of a duty specially enjoined by law.

§ 1767. When an entry is repeated, in the regular course of business, one being copied from another, at or near the time of the transaction, all the entries are equally regarded as originals.

§ 1768. Every private writing, except last wills and testaments, may be acknowledged or proved, and certified, in the manner provided for the acknowledgment or proof of conveyances of real property, and the certificate of such acknowledgment or proof, is primary evidence, of the execution of the writing, in the same manner as if it were a conveyance of real property.

§ 1769. Every county clerk, and the register of the city and county of New-York, must receive and file in his office, any private writing, delivered to him for that purpose, and give a written receipt thereforee. Such writing must be properly endorsed, so as to indicate its general nature, the names of the parties thereto, and the time of filing, and must be deposited and kept in such office separate from other papers. It is then subject to the examination of any person but cannot be withdrawn, except temporarily, upon the written order of the depositor, or his legal representatives, or on the order of a court of record, for the purpose of being read in evidence therein.

§ 1770. Every surrogate must receive, and deposit in his office, any last will and testament, delivered to him for that purpose, and give a written receipt thereforee. Such will must be enclosed in a sealed wrapper, so that its contents cannot be read, and be endorsed with the name of the testator, his place of residence, and the precise time of the deposit, and must not be read or opened, until delivered to a person entitled to it, as provided in the next section.

§ 1771. It can be delivered only, 1. To the testator in person: 2. Upon his written order, proved by a subscribing witness: or, 3. After his death, to the person named in the endorsement, if any, or if he be dead, to the person entitled to the papers of the testator: or, 4. If not so delivered, the surrogate must publicly open and examine it, make known its contents, and file it in his office; to remain there until proved, if capable of proof, and then to be delivered to the person entitled to its custody, or until required by the authority of a competent court to be produced therein.

§ 1772. The record of a conveyance of real property, or other record, a transcript of which is admissible in evidence, must not be removed from the office where it is kept, except upon the order of a court, or when temporarily removed by the clerk, having it in custody, to the court of which he is clerk, or to courts held in the city or village, where his office is situated.

CHAPTER IV. MATERIAL OBJECTS PRESENTED TO THE SENSES OTHER THAN WRITINGS:

§ 1773 Whenever an object, cognizable by the senses, has such a relation to the fact in dispute, as to afford reasonable grounds of belief respecting it, or to make an item in the sum of the evidence, such object may be exhibited to the jury, or its existence, situation and character may be proved by witnesses. The admission of such evidence must be regulated by the sound discretion of the court.

CHAPTER V. INDIRECT EVIDENCE; INFERENCES AND PEESUMPTIONS.

Indirect evidence classified.
Inference defined.
Presumption defined.
When an inference arises.
Presumptions may be controverted, when.
Specification of conclusive presumptions.
All other presumptions may be converted. 

§ 1774. Indirect evidence is of two kinds: 1. Inferences: and, 2. Presumptions.

§ 1775. An inference is a deduction, which the reason of the jury makes from the facts proved, without an express direction of law to that effect.

§ 1776. A presumption is a deduction which the law expressly directs to be made from particular facts.

§ 1777. An inference must be founded: 1. On a fact legally proved: and, 2. On such a deduction from that fact as is warranted by a consideration of the usual propensities or passions of men, the particular propensities or passions of the person whose act is in question, the course of business, or the course of nature.

§ 1778. A presumption, (unless declared by law to be conclusive,) may be controverted by other evidence, direct or indirect; but unless so controverted, the jury are bound to find according to the presumption.

§ 1779. The following presumptions and no others, are deemed conclusive: 1. An intent to murder, from the deliberate use of a deadly weapon, causing death within a year: 2. A malicious and guilty intent from the deliberate commission of an unlawful act, for the purpose of injuring another: 3. The truth of the facts recited from the recital in a written instrument, between the parties thereto, or their successors in interest, by a subsequent title, but this rule does not apply to the recital of consideration: 4. Whenever a party has, by his own declaration, act or omission, intentionally, and deliberately led another to believe a particular thing true, and to act upon such belief, he cannot, in any litigation arising out of such declaration, act or omission, be permitted to falsify it: 5. A tenant is not permitted to deny the title of his landlord at the time of the commencement of the relation: 6. The issue of a wife cohabiting with her husband, who is not impotent is indisputably presumed to be legitimate: 7. The judgment or order of a court, when declared by this code to be conclusive: but such judgment or order must be alleged in the pleadings, if there be an opportunity to do so; if there be no such opportunity, the judgment or order may be used as evidence: 8. Any other presumption, which by statute, is expressly made conclusive.

§ 1780. All other presumptions are satisfactory, if uncontradicted; They are denominated disputable presumptions, and may be controverted by other evidence. The following are of that kind: 1. That a person is innocent of crime or wrong: 2. That an unlawful act was done with an unlawful intent: 3. That a person intends the ordinary consequence of his voluntary act: 4. That a person takes ordinary care of his own concerns: 5. That evidence willfully suppressed would be adverse, if produced: 6. That higher evidence would be adverse, from inferior being produced: 7. That money paid by one to another, was due to The latter: 8. That a thing delivered by one to another, belonged to the latter: 9. That an obligation, delivered up to the debtor has been paid: 10. That former rent, or instalments have been paid when a receipt for later is produced: 11. That things which a person possesses are owned by him: 12. That a person is the owner of property, from exercising acts of ownership over it, or from common reputation of his ownership: 13. That a person in possession of an order on himself for the payment of money, or the delivery of a thing, has paid the money, or delivered the thing accordingly: 14. That a person acting in a public office, was regularly appointed to it: 15. That official duty has been regularly performed: 16. That a court or judge acting as such, whether in this state, or any other state or country, was acting in the lawful exercise of his jurisdiction: 17. That a judicial record, when not conclusive, does still correctly determine, or set forth the rights of the parties: 18. That all matters, within an issue, were laid before the jury, and passed upon by them, and in like manner, that all matters, within a submission to arbitration, were laid before the arbitrators, and passed upon by them: 19. That private transactions have been fair and regular: 20. That the ordinary course of business has been followed: 21. That a promissory note or bill of exchange, was given or endorsed for a sufficient consideration: 22. That an endorsement of a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, was made at the time and place of making the note or bill: 23. That a writing is truly dated: 24. That a letter duly directed and mailed, was received in the regular course of the mail: 25. Identity of person, from identity of name: 26. That a person not heard from in seven years is dead: 27. That an obligation under seal, to pay money more than twenty years past, has been extinguished: 28. That acquiescence followed from a belief, that the thing acquiesced in was conformable to the right or fact. 29. That things have happened, according to the ordinary course of nature, and the ordinary habits of life: 30. That persons acting as copartners, have entered into a contract of copartnership: 31. That a man and woman, deporting themselves as husband and wife, have entered into a lawful contract of marriage: 32. That a wife, acting with her husband, in the commission of a felony other than murder, acted by coercion and without guilty intent: 33. That a child born in lawful wedlock, there being no divorce, from bed and board, is legitimate: 34. That a thing once proved to exist, continues as long as is usual with things of that nature: 35. That the law has been obeyed: 36. That a document or writing, more than thirty years old, is genuine, when the same has been since generally acted upon as genuine, by persons having an interest in the question, and its custody has been satisfactorily explained: 37. That a printed and published book, purporting to be printed or published by public authority, was so printed or published: 38. That a printed and published book, purporting to contain reports of cases adjudged in the tribunals of the state, or country, where the book is published, contains correct reports of such cases: 39. That an uninterrupted, adverse possession of real property for twenty years, or more, has been held pursuant to a written conveyance: 40. That a trustee or other person, whose duty it was to convey real property to a particular person, has actually conveyed to him, when such presumption is necessary to perfect the title of such person, or of his successor in interest: 41. The uninterrupted use by the public of land, for a burial ground, for ten years, with the consent of the owner, and without a reservation of his rights, is presumptive evidence of his intention to dedicate it to the public, for that purpose. 42. Every sale of personal property, capable of immediate delivery to the purchaser, and every assignment of such property, by way of mortgage or security or upon any condition whatever, unless the same be accompanied by an immediate delivery, and be followed by an actual and continued change of possession, creates a presumption of fraud, as against the creditor of the seller or assignor, during his possession, or as against subsequent purchasers in good faith, disputable only by making it to appear on the part of the person claiming under such sale or assignment, that the same was made in good faith, and without intent to defraud such creditors or purchasers: 43. When two persons perish in the same calamity, such as a wreck, a battle, or a conflagration, and it is not shown who died first, and there are no particular circumstances from which it can be inferred, survivorship is presumed, from the probabilities resulting from the strength, age and sex, according to the following rules: First. If both those who have perished were under the age of fifteen years, the older is presumed to have survived: Second. If both were above the age of sixty years, the younger is presumed to have survived: Third. If one be under fifteen and the other above sixty, the former is presumed to have survived: Fourth. If both be over fifteen and under sixty, and the sexes be different, the male is presumed to have survived; if the sexes be the same, then the older: Fifth. If one be under fifteen or over sixty, and the other between those ages, the latter is presumed to have survived.

CHAPTER VI. INDISPENSABLE EVIDENCE.

Indispensable evidence, what.
To prove usage, perjury and treason, more than one witness required.
Will to be in writing.
How revoked.
Transfer of real property to be in writing.
Last sections not to operate in certain cases.
Authority to execute sealed instrument to be under seal.
Transfer of vessel by writing.
Agreement not in writing, when invalid.
Representation of credit, by writing.
Certain statutes not repealed.

§ 1781. The law makes certain evidence necessary to the validity of particular acts, or the proof of particular facts.

§ 1782. Usage, perjury, and treason must be proved by the testimony of more than one witness; usage by the testimony of at least two witnesses; treason by the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act; and perjury by the testimony of two witnesses, or one witness and corroborating circumstances.

§ 1783. A last will and testament, except when made by a soldier in actual military service, or by a marine at sea, is invalid, unless it be in writing, and executed with such formalities as are required by law. Evidence, thereforee, of such will cannot be received without the written instrument itself, or secondary evidence of its contents, in the cases prescribed by law.

§ 1784. A written will cannot be revoked or altered, otherwise than by another written will, or another writing of the testator, declaring such revocation or alteration, and executed with the same formalities, required by law for the will itself; or unless the will be burnt, torn, cancelled, obliterated or destroyed, with the intent and for the purpose of revoking the same, by the testator himself, or by another person, in his presence, by his direction and consent; and when so done by another person, the direction and consent of the testator, and the fact of such injury or destruction, must be proved by at least two witnesses.

§ 1785. No estate or interest in real property, other than a lease for a term not exceeding one year, nor any trust or power concerning it, can be created, transferred or declared otherwise than by operation of law, or by a conveyance or other instrument in writing, subscribed by the party creating, transferring or declaring the same, or by his lawful agent, under written authority, and executed with such formalities as are required by law.

§ 1786. The preceding section must not be construed to affect the power of a testator, in the disposition of his real property by a last will and testament; nor to prevent a trust from arising or being extinguished by implication or operation of law, nor to abridge the power of any court, to compel the specific performance of an agreement, in case of part performance thereof.

§ 1787. A transfer of a vessel is not complete, unless it be in writing, and signed by the party making the transfer.

§ 1788. The authority to execute a sealed instrument must be under seal, if the sealing of the instrument be essential to its validity.

§ 1789. In the following cases the agreement is invalid, unless the same, or some note or memorandum thereof, expressing the consideration, be in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged, or by his agent; evidence thereforee of the agreement cannot be received without the writing, or secondary evidence of its contents: 1. An agreement that, by its terms, is not to be performed within a year from the making thereof: 2. A special promise to answer for the debt, default are miscarriage of another: 3. An agreement made upon consideration of marriage, other than a mutual promise to marry: 4. An agreement for the sale of goods, chattels, or things in action, at a price not less than fifty dollars, unless the buyer accept and receive part of such goods or chattels, or the evidences, or some of them, of such things in action, or pay at the time some part of the purchase money; but when a sale is made by auction, an entry by the auctioneer, in his sale-book, at the time of the sale, of the kind of property sold, the terms of sale, the price, and the names of the purchaser and person on whose account the sale is made, is a sufficient memorandum: 5. An agreement for the leasing, for a longer period than one year, or for the sale of real property, or of an interest therein. An agreement relating to real property, made by an agent of the party sought to be charged, is invalid unless the authority of the agent be in writing, subscribed by the party.

§ 1790. No evidence is admissible to charge a person upon a representation, as to the credit of a third person, unless such representation, or some memorandum thereof, be in writing, and either subscribed by, or in the handwriting of, the party to be charged.

§ 1791. Nothing in this chapter repeals any statute of this state, prescribing the form of any agreement or instrument not herein mentioned.

CHAPTER VII. CONCLUSIVE OR UNANSWERABLE EVIDENCE.

§ 1792. No evidence is by law made conclusive or unanswerable, unless so declared by this code. Estoppels are thereforee abolished.

TITLE III. OF THE PRODUCTION OF EVIDENCE.

By whom to be produced.
Means of production.
Manner of production. 

CHAPTER I. BY WHOM TO BE PRODUCED.

Evidence to be produced, by whom.
Writing altered, who to explain.

§ 1793. The party holding the affirmative of the issue must produce the evidence to prove it. Therefore the burden of proof lies on the party, who would be defeated, if no evidence were given on either side.

§ 1794. The party producing a writing, as genuine, which has been altered, or appears to have been altered, after its execution, in a part material to the question in dispute, must account for the appearance, or alteration. He may show, that the alteration was made by another without his concurrence, or was made with the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly or innocently made, or that the alteration did not change the meaning or language of the instrument. If he do that, he may give the writing in evidence, but not otherwise.

CHAPTER II. MEANS OF PRODUCTION.

Subpoena for witness, defined.
Subpoena, how issued.
By whom issued.
How served.
How, if witness be concealed.
Where witness compellable to attend.
Person present, compelled to testify.
Disobedience, how punished.
Forfeiture thereforee.
Warrant may issue to bring witness.
Contents of warrant.
If witness be a prisoner, how brought.
On whose motion.
When examined.

§ 1795. The process by which the attendance of a witness is required, is a subpoena. It is a writ or order directed to a person, and requiring his attendance, at a particular time and place, to testify as a witness. It may also require him to bring with him any books, documents, or other things under his control, which he is bound by law to produce in evidence.

§ 1796. The subpoena is issued as follows: 1. To require attendance before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, it is issued in the name of the court, before which the attendance is required, or in which the issue is pending: 2. To require attendance out of court, in an action or special proceeding pending in court, it is issued in the name of the court, in which the action or proceeding is pending: 3. To require attendance out of court before a judge, justice, or other officer, authorized to administer oaths in a special proceeding, under the authority of this state, and pending in court, it is issued by the judge, justice, or other officer, before whom the attendance is required: 4. To require attendance before a commissioner, appointed to take testimony, by a court of any other state, or country, or before a judge, justice or other person, in any other case allowed by law, it may be issued by a judge of the supreme court, or by a county judge or justice of the peace, in places within their respective jurisdictions.

§ 1797. Any party or attorney of a party, in an action, or special proceeding pending in court, may at any time, issue in the name and on behalf of the court, as many subpoenas for witnesses within the state, pursuant to subdivisions 1 and 2 of the last section, as may be required by such party. Every judge, justice, or other officer, authorized by subdivisions 3 and 4 of the last section to issue subpoenas, may on the application of any party, and such proof, as this code requires in the particular case, issue subpoenas signed by such judge, justice, or other officer, with his name of office for such witnesses, as the party reasonably requires.

§ 1798. The service of a subpoena is made, by showing the original, and delivering a copy or a ticket, containing its substance, to the witness personally, giving or offering to him at the same time, the fees, to which he is entitled, for travel to and from the place designated, and one day’s attendance there. Such service must be made, so as to allow the witness a reasonable time, for preparation and travel to the place of attendance.

§ 1799. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel, so as to prevent the service of a subpoena, upon him, the court or officer issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof by affidavit, of the concealment, and of the materiality of the witness, make an order, that the sheriff of the county serve the subpoena, and the sheriff must serve it accordingly, and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel, where the witness is concealed.

§ 1800. A witness is not obliged to attend for examination upon a deposition, or for cross-examination upon an affidavit, in any other county than that of his residence, or where he is served with the subpoena; nor is a witness obliged to attend for oral examination, before a court or judge out of the county where the witness resides, or is served with the subpoena; except that in case of an action or special proceeding pending in court, a judge thereof, or a judge of the supreme court, or a county judge, upon an affidavit of a party, or his attorney, shewing that the testimony of the witness is material and his attendance necessary, may endorse on the subpoena an order for the attendance of the witness; in which case, the service of such subpoena and order, and the payment of double fees to the witness, are sufficient to require his attendance, in the same manner as if he resided in the county.

§ 1801. A person present in court, or before a judicial officer, may be required to testify, in the same manner, as if he were in attendance upon a subpoena, issued by such court or officer.

§ 1802. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition when required, may be punished as a contempt, by the court or officer issuing the subpoena, or requiring the witness to be sworn; and if the witness be a party, his complaint, answer or reply may be stricken out.

§ 1803. A witness disobeying a subpoena shall also forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of fifty dollars, and all damages which he may sustain, by the failure of the witness to attend; which forfeiture and damages may be recovered in a civil action.

§ 1804. In case of the failure of a witness to attend, the court, or officer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service thereof, and of the failure of the witness, may issue a warrant to the sheriff of the county, to arrest the witness, and bring him before the court or officer where his attendance was required.

§ 1805. Every warrant of commitment, issued by a court or officer, pursuant to this chapter, must specify therein particularly the cause of the commitment, and if it be for refusing to answer a question, such question must be stated in the warrant. And every warrant to arrest, or commit a witness, pursuant to this chapter, must be directed to the sheriff of the county, where the witness may be, and must be executed by him in the same manner as process issued by the supreme court.

§ 1806. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a prison within this state, an order for his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production, before a court or officer, for the purpose of being orally examined, may be made, as follows : 1. By the court itself, in which the action or special proceeding is pending unless it be a justice’s court: 2. By a judge of the supreme court, or county judge of the county, where the action or proceeding is pending, if pending in a justice’s court, or before a judge, or other person out of court.

§ 1807. Such order can only be made on the motion of a party, upon affidavits, showing the nature of the action or proceeding the testimony expected from the witness, and its materiality.

§ 1808. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where the action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than a sentence for felony, his production may be required. In all other cases, his examination must be taken upon deposition.

CHAPTER III. MANNER OF PRODUCTION.

Mode of taking the testimony of witnesses.
Affidavits.
Depositions.
Manner of taking depositions out of the state.
Manner of taking depositions in the state.
General rules of examination.

ARTICLE I. MODE OF TAKING THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES.

Testimony, in what mode taken.
An affidavit, defined.
A deposition, defined.
Oral examination, defined.
Affidavit or deposition, how taken.
How if taken in other states.
Affidavit, when to be used.

§ 1809. The testimony of witnesses is taken in three modes: 1. By affidavit: 2. By deposition: 3. By oral examination.

§ 1810. An affidavit is a written declaration under oath, made without notice to the adverse party.

§ 1811. A deposition is a written declaration under oath, made upon notice to the adverse party for the purpose of enabling him to attend and cross-examine.

§ 1812. An oral examination, is an examination in presence of the jury or tribunal, which is to decide the fact, or act upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury, from the lips of the witness.

§ 1813. In all affidavits and depositions, the witness must be made to speak in the first person. Depositions must be taken in the form of question and answer, and the words of the witness must be written down, unless the parties agree to a different mode.

§ 1814. An affidavit or deposition taken in another state of the United States, or in a foreign country, otherwise than upon commission, must be authenticated as follows, before it can be used in this state: 1. It must be certified by a commissioner, appointed by the governor of this state, to take affidavits and depositions in such other state: or 2. It must be certified, by a judge of a court having a seal, to have been taken and subscribed before him, at a time and place specified, and the genuineness of the signature of the judge, the existence of the court, and the fact that such judge is a member thereof, must be certified by the clerk of the court, under the seal thereof.

ARTICLE II. AFFIDAVITS.

Affidavits and depositions, how taken.
When deponent to be produced for examination.
Evidence of publication, what.
Where filed.

§ 1815. An affidavit may be used, to verify a pleading or a paper in a special proceeding, to prove the service of a summons, notice or other paper in an action or special proceeding, to obtain a provisional remedy, the examination of a witness, or a stay of proceedings, or upon a motion and in any other case, expressly permitted by some other provision of this code, except as provided in the next section.

§ 1816. Whenever a provisional remedy, had been granted upon affidavit, the party against whom it was granted, may serve upon the party by whom it was obtained, a notice requiring the person making the affidavit to be produced for cross-examination. Thereupon the party making the motion, shall lose the benefit of the affidavit, and of all proceedings founded thereon, unless within eight days, or such other time as the court or a judge thereof may direct, upon a previous notice to his adversary of at least three days, he produce the deponent for examination, before an officer authorized to administer oaths. Upon such production, the deponent may be examined by either party.

§ 1817. Evidence of the publication of a document or notice required by law, or by an order of a court or judge, to be published in a newspaper, may be given by the affidavit of the printer of the newspaper, or his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a copy of the document or notice, specifying the times when, and the paper in which, the publication was made. But such affidavit must be made within six months after the last day of publication.

§ 1818. If such affidavit be made in an action or special proceeding pending in a court, it may be filed with the court, or a clerk thereof, if not so made it may be filed with a clerk of the county, where the newspaper is printed. In either case the original affidavit, or a copy thereof, certified by the court or clerk having it in custody, is primary evidence of the facts stated therein.

ARTICLE III. DEPOSITIONS.

Deposition, when used.
Testimony of a witness out of state, when taken.
In the state, when taken.

§ 1819. In all cases, other than those mentioned in section 1815, where a written declaration under oath is used, it must be a deposition as prescribed by this code.

§ 1820. The testimony of a witness out of the state, may be taken by deposition in an action, at any time after the service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant, and in a special proceeding, at any time after a question of fact has arisen therein.

§ 1821. The testimony of a witness in this state may be taken by deposition, in an action, at any time, after the service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant, and in a special proceeding, after a question of fact has arisen therein, in the following cases: 1. When the witness is a party to the action or special proceeding: 2. When the witness resides more than one hundred miles from the place where his testimony is to be used: 3. When the witness is about to leave the state and will probably continue absent when the testimony is required: 4. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is nevertheless too infirm to attend: 5. When the testimony is required upon a motion, or in any other case where the oral examination of the witness is not required.

ARTICLE IV. MANNER OF TAKING DEPOSITIONS OUT OF THE STATE.

Testimony of witness out of state, how taken.
Commission, how issued.
Contents of commission.
Trial, when postponed thereforee.
Deposition out of state, taken before commissioner.
Either party may attend.
Deposition, by whom used.

§ 1822. The deposition of a witness out of the state: may be taken upon commission issued from the court or, without commission, before a commissioner appointed by the governor of this state to take depositions in other states.

§ 1823. The commission may be issued by the clerk under the seal of the court, or a surrogate, or by a justice in their courts, on the application of either party, upon five days’ previous notice to the other. It must be issued to a person agreed upon by the parties, or if they do not agree, to a judge or justice of the peace, selected by the officer issuing it. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as the respective parties may prepare, to be settled by the clerk or justice in a summary manner, if the parties disagree, may be annexed to the commission, or when the parties agree to that mode, the examination maybe without written interrogatories.

§ 1824. The commission must authorize the commissioner, to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or when the examination is to be without interrogatories, in respect to the question in dispute, and to certify the deposition to the court, in a sealed envelope directed to the clerk, or other person designated or agreed upon, and forwarded to him by mail, or other usual channel of conveyance.

§ 1825. A trial or other proceeding must not be postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except upon evidence satisfactory to the court, that the testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it.

§ 1826. The deposition oi a witness out of this state, and in any other of the United States, may also be taken before a commissioner, appointed by the governor of this state to take depositions in other states, upon eight days previous notice of the time and place of examination, given to the adverse party, if the distance of the place of examination from the place where the testimony is to be used, do not exceed one hundred miles, and three days in addition for every additional hundred miles.

§ 1827. Either party may attend on such examination, and put such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper, or if either party by written notice to the other, six days before the examination, require it, it must be taken upon written interrogatories. The deposition must be taken, certified to the court, and filed with the clerk in the same manner, as a deposition upon commission.

§ 1828. The deposition mentioned in this article, may be used by either party on the trial or other proceeding, against any other party, giving or receiving the notice, subject to all just exceptions.

ARTICLE V. MANNER OF TAKING DEPOSITIONS IN THE STATE.

Deposition in the state, how taken.
Either party may attend.
When deposition excluded.
Once taken, may be read at any time.
Deposition in this state, to be used in other states.
How to procure witness upon commission.
How, if no commission.
Deposition, how taken.

§ 1829. Either party may have the deposition taken of a witness in this state, in either of the cases mentioned in section 1821, before a judge of the court, or any other person authorized to administer oaths, on serving upon the adverse party, previous notice of the time and place of examination, together with a copy of an affidavit, showing that the case is within that section. Such notice must be at least five days, adding also one day for every fifty miles of the distance of the place of examination from the residence of the person, to whom the notice is given, unless for cause shown, a judge prescribe a shorter time.

§ 1830. Either party may attend such examination, and put such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper, and the deposition must be certified by the officer, and filed with the clerk, or if the parties so agree, deposited with some other person, and may thereupon be used by either party upon the trial, motion, or other proceeding, against any party giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions. But no objection to the relevancy of testimony can be made at the trial unless the same were stated at the time of the examination. If the deposition be taken under subdivisions 2, 3, and 4, of section 1821, proof must also be made that the witness continues absent or infirm.

§ 1831. Notwithstanding the taking of a deposition mentioned in sections 1826 and 1829, it may be excluded from the case, upon proof that sufficient notice was not given to the party, against whom it is offered, to enable him to attend the taking thereof, or that the taking was not in all respects fair.

§ 1832. When a deposition has been once taken, it may be read in any stage of the same action or proceeding, or in any other action between the same parties, upon the same subject, and is then to be deemed the evidence of the party reading it.

§ 1833. Any party to an action or special proceeding, in a court, or before a judge, of a sister state, may obtain the testimony of a witness residing in this state, to be used in such action or proceeding, in the cases mentioned in the next two sections.

§ 1834. If a commission to take such testimony have been issued from the court or judge, before whom such action or proceeding is pending, on producing the commission, to a judge of the supreme court, or a county judge, with an affidavit, satisfactory to him, of the materiality of the testimony, he may issue a subpoena to the witness, requiring him to appear and testify, before the commissioner named in the commission, at a specified time and place.

§ 1835. If a commission have not been issued, and it appear to a judge of the supreme court, county judge, or justice, by affidavit satisfactory to him: 1. That the testimony of the witness is material to either party: 2. That a commission to take the testimony of such witness has not been issued: 3. That according to the law of the state where the action or special proceeding is pending, the deposition of a witness taken under such circumstances, and before such judge or justice, will be received in the action or proceeding, he must issue his subpoena, requiring the witness to appear and testify before him at a specified time and place.

§ 1836. Upon the appearance of the witness, the judge or justice must cause his testimony to be taken in writing, and must certify and transmit the same to the court or judge before whom the action or proceeding is pending, in such manner as the law of that state requires.

ARTICLE VI. GENERAL RULES OF EXAMINATION.

Order of proof, how regulated.
Witnesses not under examination, may be excluded.
Interpreter sworn, when.
Court may control mode of interrogation.
Direct and cross-examination, defined.
Leading question, defined.
When witness may refresh memory from notes.
Cross-examination, as to what.
Party producing, not allowed to lead witness.
Witness how examined, when re-examined.
How impeached.
Evidence of good character, when allowed.
Writing shown to witness, may be inspected by adverse party.
Judge or juror may be called.
Jury, judges of effect of evidence, just to be instructed on certain points.

§ 1837. The order of proof must be regulated by the sound discretion of the court. Ordinarily the party, beginning the case, must exhaust his evidence before the other party begins.

§ 1838. If either party require it, the judge may exclude from the court room any witness of the adverse party not at the time under examination, so that he may not hear the testimony of other witnesses.

§ 1839. When a witness does not understand and speak the English language, an interpreter must be sworn to interpret for him.

§ 1840. The court may exercise a reasonable control over the mode of interrogation, so as to make it as rapid, as distinct, as little annoying to the witness, and as effective for the extraction of the truth, as may be, but subject to this rule, the parties may put such legal and pertinent questions as they see fit. The court, however, may stop the production of further evidence, upon any particular point, when the evidence upon it is already so full as to preclude reasonable doubt.

§ 1841. The examination of a witness by the party producing him, is denominated the direct examination; the examination of the same witness, upon the same matter, by the adverse party, the cross-examination. The direct examination must be completed before the cross-examination begins, unless the court otherwise direct.

§ 1842. A question, which suggests to the witness the answer which the examining party desires, is denominated a leading or suggestive question. On a direct examination, leading questions are not allowed, except in the sound discretion of the court, under special circumstances, making it appear that the interests of justice require it.

§ 1843. A witness is allowed to refresh his memory, respecting a fact, by anything written by himself or under his direction, at the time when the fact occurred or immediately thereafter, or at any other time when the fact was fresh in his memory, and he knew that the same was correctly stated in the writing. But in such case the writing must be produced, and may be seen by the adverse party, who may, if he choose, cross-examine the witness upon it, and may read it to the jury. So also a witness may testify from such a writing, though he retain no recollection of the particular facts; but such evidence must be received with caution.

§ 1844. The opposite party may cross-examine the witness, as to any facts stated in his direct examination or connected therewith, and in so doing, may put leading questions, but if he examine him, as to other matters, such examination is to be subject to the same rules as a direct examination.

§ 1845. The party producing a witness, is not allowed to impeach his credit by evidence of bad character, but he may contradict him by other evidence, and may also show that he has made at other times, statements inconsistent with his present testimony, as provided in section 1848.

§ 1846. A witness once examined, cannot be re-examined as to the same matter, without leave of the court, But he may be re-examined as to any new matter, upon which he has been examined by the adverse party. And after the examinations on both sides are once concluded, the witness cannot be recalled without leave of the court. Leave is granted or withheld, in the exercise of a sound discretion.

§ 1847. A witness may be impeached by the party against whom he was called, by contradictory evidence, or by evidence that his general reputation for truth is bad, or that his moral character is such as to render him unworthy of belief, but not by evidence of particular wrongful acts; except that it may be shown by the examination of the witness, or the record of the judgment, that he has been convicted of a felony.

§ 1848. A witness may also be impeached, by evidence that he has made, at other times, statements inconsistent with his present testimony; but before this can be done, the statements must be related to him, with the circumstances of times, places and persons present; and he must be asked whether he has made such statements, and if so, allowed to explain them. If the statements be in writing, they must be shown to the witness, before any question is put to him concerning them.

§ 1849. Evidence of the good character of a party, is not admissible in a civil action, not of a witness in any action, until the character of such party or witness has been impeached, or unless the issue involve his character.

§ 1850. Whenever a writing is shown to a witness it may be inspected by the opposite party, and if proved by the witness, must be read to the jury before his testimony is closed, or it cannot be read, except on recalling the witness.

§ 1851 The judge himself, or any juror, may be called as a witness by either party; but in such case it is in the discretion of the court or judge, to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to take place before another judge or jury.

TITLE IV. OF THE EFFECT OF EVIDENCE.

§ 1852. The jury, subject to the control of the court, in the cases specified in this code, are the judges of the effect or value of evidence addressed to them, except when it is hereby declared to be conclusive. They are however to be instructed by the court, on all proper occasions; I. That their power of judging of the effect of evidence is not arbitrary, but to be exercised with legal discretion, and in subordination to the rules of evidence; 2. That they are not bound to decide in conformity with the declarations of any number of witnesses, which do not produce conviction in their minds, against a less number, or against a presumption or other evidence satisfying their minds; 3. That a witness, false in one part of his testimony, is to be distrusted in others; 4. That the testimony of an accomplice ought to be viewed with distrust, and the oral admissions of a party with caution: 5. That in civil cases the affirmative of the issue must be proved, and when the evidence is contradictory, the decision must be made according to the preponderance of evidence; that in criminal cases, guilt must be established beyond reasonable doubt; 6. That evidence is to be estimated, not only by its own intrinsic weight, but also according to the evidence which it is in the power of one side to produce, and of the other to contradict, and thereforee, 7. That if weaker and less satisfactory evidence is offered, when it appears that stronger and more satisfactory was within the power of the party, the evidence offered should be viewed with distrust.

TITLE V. OF THE RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF WITNESSES.

Witnesses bound to attend when subpoenaed.
Witnesses bound to answer questions.
Right of witnesses to protection.
Witnesses protected from arrest when attending or going or returning.
To make affidavit if arrested.
Court to discharge witness from arrest.

§ 1853. It is the duty of a witness, duly served with a subpoena, to attend at the time appointed, with any papers under his control required by the subpoena, to answer all pertinent and legal questions, and, unless sooner discharged, to remain till the testimony is closed.

§ 1854. A witness must answer questions legal and pertinent to the matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim against himself. But he need not give an answer, which will have a tendency to subject him to punishment for a felony. Nor need he give an answer, which will have a direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the very fact in issue, or to a fact from which the fact in issue would be presumed. But a witness must answer as to the fact of his previous conviction for felony.

§ 1855. It is the right of a witness to be protected from irrelevant, insulting or improper questions, and from harsh or insulting demeanor; to be detained only so long as the interests of justice require it; to be examined only as to matters legal and pertinent to the issue.

§ 1856. Every person who has been in good faith, served with a subpoena, to attend as a witness before a court, judge, commissioner, referee, or other person, in a case where the disobedience of the witness may be punished as a contempt, is exonerated from arrest, in a civil action, while going to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there, and returning therefrom. The arrest of a witness contrary to this section is void, and when willfully made, is a contempt of the court; and the person making it, is responsible to the witness arrested, for double the amount of the damages which may be assessed against him, and is also liable to an action at the suit of the party serving the witness with the subpoena, for the damages sustained by him in consequence of the arrest.

§ 1857. But an officer is not so liable, unless the person claiming exemption make, if required, an affidavit, stating: 1. That he has been served with a subpoena, to attend as a witness before a court, officer, or other person, specifying the same, the place of attendance, and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena was issued, and: 2. That he has not been thus served by his own procurement, with the intention of avoiding an arrest. The affidavit may be taken by the officer, and exonerates him from liability for not making the arrest or for discharging the witness when arrested.

§ 1858. The court or officer issuing the subpoena, and the court or officer before whom the attendance is required, may discharge the witness from an arrest made in violation of section 1856. If the court have adjourned before the arrest, or before application for the discharge, a judge of the court, or a county judge, may grant the discharge.

TITLE VI. OF EVIDENCE IN PARTICULAR CASES AND MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Evidence in particular cases
Proceedings to perpetuate testimony.
Administration of oaths and affirmations.
General provisions.

CHAPTER I. EVIDENCE IN PARTICULAR CASES.

An offer equivalent to payment.
Whoever pays entitled to receipt.
Objections to tender must be specified.
Rules for contrasting description of lands.
Compromise offer of no avail, but admission of facts may be shown.
In action for divorce, admission not sufficient.

§ 1859. An offer in writing, to pay a particular sum of money, or to deliver a written instrument or specific personal property, is, if not accepted, equivalent to the actual production, and tender of the money, instrument or property.

§ 1860. Whoever pays money, or delivers an instrument or property, is entitled to a receipt thereforee, from the person to whom the payment or delivery is made, and may demand a proper signature to such receipt as a condition of the payment or delivery.

§ 1861. The person to whom a tender is made, must at the time specify any objection he may have to the money, instrument or property, or he must be deemed to have waived it, and if the objection be to the amount of money, the terms of the instrument, or the amount or kind of property, he must specify the amount, terms or kind which he requires, or be precluded from objecting afterwards.

§ 1862. The following are the rules, for construing the descriptive part of a conveyance of real property, when the construction is doubtful, and there are no other sufficient circumstances to determine it: 1. Where there are certain definite and ascertained particulars in the description, the addition of others, which are indefinite, unknown or false, does not frustrate the conveyance, but it is to be construed by the first mentioned particulars: 2. When permanent and visible, or ascertained boundaries or monuments, are inconsistent with the measurement, either of lines, angles or surfaces, the boundaries or monuments are paramount: 3. Between different measurements, which are inconsistent with each other, that of angles is paramount to that of surfaces, and that of lines, paramount to both: 4. When a road, or a stream of water not navigable, is the boundary, the rights of the grantor to the middle of the road, or the thread of the stream, are included in the conveyance, except where the road or bed of the stream is held under another title; 5. When tide water is the boundary, the rights of the grantor to low water mark are included in the conveyance: 6. When the description refers to a map, and that reference is inconsistent with other particulars, it controls them, if it appear, that the parties acted with reference to the map; otherwise the map is subordinate to other definite, and ascertained particulars.

§ 1863. An offer of compromise is not an admission, that any thing is due; but admissions of particular facts, made in a negotiation for a compromise, may be proved, unless otherwise specially agreed at the time.

§ 1864. In an action for divorce, on the ground of adultery, a confession of adultery, whether in or out of the pleadings, is not of itself sufficient to justify a judgment of divorce.

CHAPTER II. PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

Evidence may be perpetuated.
Manner of application for order.
Notice of time and place to be given.
Manner of taking the deposition.
Deposition to be filed.
When the evidence may be produced.
Effect of the deposition.

§ 1865. The testimony of a witness may be taken conditionally and perpetuated, as provided in this chapter.

§ 1866. The applicant must produce to a judge of the supreme court, or to a county judge, an affidavit, stating, 1. That the applicant is a party, or expects to be a party, to an action in a court of this state: 2. That the testimony of a witness, residing in this state, whose place of residence is stated is necessary to the prosecution or defense of such action: and generally the facts expected to be proved: 3. If the action be not actually commenced, that the party named who is expected to be adverse to the applicant, resides in this state, and is of full age. The judge may thereupon, in his discretion, make an order, allowing the examination, and prescribing how long before the examination, the order and notice of the time and place thereforee must be served.

§ 1867. Upon proof of personal service upon the person, who is, or is expected to be the adverse party, of the order, copy of the affidavit, and of a notice that the examination will be taken before a judge of the supreme court, or county judge of the county wherein the witness resides or may be at a specified time and place, such judge may take the deposition of the witness conditionally, and the examination may, if necessary, be adjourned from time to time.

§ 1868. Every answer or declaration of the witness must be taken down, unless the parties otherwise agree. The deposition, when completed, must be carefully read to, and subscribed by, the witness, then certified by the judge, and immediately thereafter filed in the office of the clerk of the county where it was taken, together with the order for the examination of the witness, the affidavit on which the same was granted, and the affidavit of service of the affidavit, order, and notice.

§ 1869. The affidavits filed with the deposition, or a certified copy thereof, are primary evidence of the facts stated therein, to show compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

§ 1870. If a trial be had, between the persons named in the affidavit as parties actual or expectant, or their successors in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity of the witness, or of his inability to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition, or a certified copy thereof, may be given in evidence by either party.

§ 1871. The deposition so taken and read in evidence has the same effect as the oral testimony of the witness, and no other, and every objection to the witness, or to the relevancy of any question put to him, or of any answer given by him, may be made in the same manner, as if he were examined orally at the trial.

CHAPTER III. ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS.

Judicial officers authorized to administer oaths.
Form of ordinary oath to a witness.
Another form.
Form may be varied to suit witnesses’ belief.
Any person who prefers it may declare or affirm.
An affirmation deemed equivalent to oath.

§ 1872. Every court, judge, justice or, other officer, or person, authorized to take testimony, in any action or proceeding, or to decide upon evidence, has power to administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses.

§ 1873. An oath is usually administered as follows: the person, who swears, lays his hand upon the gospels, while the person administering the oath, thus addresses him: “You do swear that the evidence you shall give in this issue, (or matter) pending between __ and __, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God,” and thereupon the person, who swears, assents by kissing the book.

§ 1874. Any person who desires it, may swear by expressing his assent, when addressed, in the following form: “You do swear, in the presence of the everliving God, that the evidence you shall give, &c.,” as in the last section, holding up his hand or not, at his option.

§ 1875. Whenever the court, before which a person is offered as a witness, is satisfied that he has a peculiar mode of swearing, connected with, or in addition to, the usual form of administration, which, in his opinion, is more solemn or obligatory, the court may in its discretion adopt that mode.

§ 1876. When a person is sworn, who believes in any other than the Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

§ 1877. Any person who desires it, may, at his option, instead of taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation or declaration, by assenting, when addressed, in the following form: “You do solemnly affirm (or declare) that, &c., as in section 1873.

§ 1878. Whenever, by any provision of this code, an oath is required, an affirmation or declaration, as prescribed in the last section, is to be deemed equivalent thereto, and a false affirmation or declaration is to be deemed perjury, equally with a false oath.

CHAPTER IV. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Questions of fact to be decided by jury, and the evidence addressed to them.
Questions of law addressed to the court.
Questions of fact by court or referees.
Special statutes not affected by this code.
Repealing and saving section.

§ 1879. All questions of fact, other than those mentioned in the next section, are to be decided by the jury, and all evidence thereon addressed to them, except when otherwise provided by this code.

§ 1880. All questions of law, including the admissibility of testimony, the facts preliminary to such admission, and the construction of statutes and other writings, and other rules of evidence, are to be decided by the court, and all discussions of law, addressed to it. And whenever the knowledge of the court is, by this code, make evidence of a fact, the court is to declare such knowledge to the jury, who are bound to accept it.

§ 1881. The provisions contained in this part of the code, respecting the evidence on a trial before a jury, are equally applicable on the trial of a question of fact before a court, referees or other officer.

§ 1882. Whenever by special statute, a certificate is expressly made evidence of a fact, or particular evidence is required, such statute remains unaffected by this code.

§ 1883. All the rules and laws of evidence, heretofore existing in this state, in any case provided for by this code, or inconsistent, with it, are abrogated and repealed. But, if there be any former law, or rule of evidence, which is both consistent with this code, and not within the scope of any of its provisions, such law or rule is not abrogated by it.

GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE WHOLE CODE.

§ 1884. Words used in this code in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present; words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular; the word person includes a corporation as well as a natural person; writing includes printing or printed paper; oath includes affirmation or declaration; signature or subscription, includes mark, when the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness. The following terms also have in this code the signification attached to them in this section, unless otherwise apparent from the context: 1. The word “property,” includes property, real and personal; 2. The words “real property,” are co-extensive with lands, tenements, and hereditaments; 3. The words “personal property,” include money, goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt; 4. The word “district,” signifies judicial district; 5. The word “clerk,” signifies the clerk of the supreme court where the action is pending, and in the supreme court the clerk in the county mentioned in the title of the complaint, or in another county, to which the court may have changed the place of trial. 6. The word “writ,” signifies an order or precept in writing, issued in the name of the people, or of a court of judicial officer; “Process” is a writ or summons issued in the course of judicial proceedings; 7. The word “corporation” includes every association having any corporate rights, whether created by special acts of legislation or under general laws; a “foreign corporation,” is a corporation created by, or under the laws of some other state, government or country.

§ 1885 All statutes, laws and rules, heretofore in force in this state, in any case provided for by this Code, or inconsistent with its provisions, are hereby repealed and abrogated, nor is any such statute, law, or rule, to be deemed retained, because it is consistent with the provisions upon the same subject in this code; but such repeal or abrogation does not revive any former law heretofore repealed, nor does it affect any right already existing or accrued, or any proceeding already taken, except as in this code provided. 

